---
title: Semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus
abstract: A semiconductor integrated circuit device is disclosed, which comprises power supply system circuits, in which power supply terminals and/or ground terminals are separated from each other between the power supply system circuits, an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit, an internal circuit provided in each of the power supply system circuits, an internal signal transmitting line, a surge input detecting circuit, and at least one of an input protecting circuit which is provided at an input side of the internal circuit and which limits a voltage of a signal transmitted from the internal signal transmitting line, and an output logic setting circuit which is provided at an output side of the internal circuit and which sets a logic level of a signal outputted to the internal signal transmitting line to a low level when the surge input detecting circuit has detected a surge input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07307822&OS=07307822&RS=07307822
owner: Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba
number: 07307822
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20041220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","First Embodiment","Second Embodiment","Third Embodiment","Fourth Embodiment","Fifth Embodiment","Sixth Embodiment"],"p":["This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2003-424693, filed Dec. 22, 2003, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus. More particularly, the present invention relates to an ESD (Electrostatic Discharge) protecting circuit apparatus incorporated in order to protect an internal circuit from a surge input of an electrostatic discharge applied to an external terminal. The electrostatic discharge protecting circuit apparatus is applied to a CMOS LSI of low power supply voltage type using a silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) element as a voltage clamping element for ESD protection, for example.","2. Description of the Related Art","For example, an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit connected between an external terminal and an internal circuit in order to protect an input circuit or an output circuit of a CMOS LSI uses a diode, a transistor, or a SCR as a protecting element.","Such an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit using an SCR is high in trigger voltage of the SCR in general. Thus, in the case where the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is applied to a fine CMOS LSI operable in a low power supply voltage, it is necessary to reduce the trigger voltage in order to protect a MOS transistor with a low gate breakdown voltage.","From such a background, an example in which an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit using an SCR has been applied to a CMOS LSI of low power supply voltage type is disclosed in \u201cA Gate-Coupled PTLSCR\/NTLSCR ESD Protection Circuit for Deep-Submicron Low-Voltage CMOS IC's 1\u2033, IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 32, NO. 1, January 1997\u201d. The electrostatic discharge protecting circuit applies triggering by utilizing a transient potential change when a surge input to an input pad to which the SCR is connected. However, a satisfactory protecting characteristic cannot be obtained.","In order to solve this problem, the applicants have proposed a technique of applying an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit to an LSI with a low power supply voltage disclosed in Japanese Patent Application KOKAI Publication No. 2003-318265, thereby achieving a preferable protecting characteristic by applying a low voltage trigger and enhancing reliability.","In the proposed circuit, when an input of a surge voltage becomes a problem, a normal power supply potential VDD is not applied yet, and a gate of a PMOS transistor for trigger input is set to the ground potential GND.","Therefore, in this state, when a surge voltage with a positive polarity is inputted to an input pad of an input circuit, and if a bias voltage in the forward direction that is greater than an absolute value of the gate threshold voltage Vthp of the PMOS transistor is applied between the gate and source of the PMOS transistor, the gate of the PMOS transistor is turned ON.","In this manner, a trigger is applied to the SCR, the SCR is turned ON, a surge current is discharged to the GND, and an input gate of an input circuit connected to the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is protected. In this case, the absolute value of the gate threshold voltage Vthp of the PMOS transistor is small, thus making it possible to start operation of the SCR by a low voltage trigger.","In an LSI of analog and digital mixed type in which a thin oxide element is used in general, signals with a low voltage are transmitted and\/or received between a plurality of power supply system circuits of different power supply systems. In an LSI in which an analog circuit which is weak in interference of a noise signal, a low voltage differential signal circuit (LVDS) which is operable at a high speed, a dynamic type semiconductor memory (embedded type DRAM) and the like are incorporated as the power supply system circuits, a ground line separation technique which separates ground lines of the power supply system circuits from each other is effective in terms of reducing interference of a noise signal caused between the plurality of power supply system circuits or enabling selective setting of those of the power supply system circuits which are out of use to a standby state.","In a conventional LSI in which the ground line separation technique and a plurality of power supply systems of different power supply systems are employed and electrostatic discharge protecting circuits are provided, electrostatic discharge protecting circuits are provided correspondingly to the power supply system circuits and connected between power supply terminals and ground terminals of the power supply system circuits. Internal circuits are provided to the power supply system circuits, correspondingly. Internal signal transmission lines are provided each to transmit a signal from an internal circuit of a power supply system circuit to an internal circuit of another power supply system circuit.","The ground terminals of the power supply system circuits are connected to each other via a circuit for discharging a current due to ESD and a wiring. An example of the discharging circuit is comprised of a circuit comprising two diodes connected to each other in opposite directions.","When a surge current due to ESD flows through the discharging circuit and the wiring, a voltage drop occurs across the discharging circuit and the wiring, and the potential difference between the ground terminals increases. Thus, a voltage greater than a rated voltage is applied to an input gate of an internal circuit whose input node is connected to the internal signal transmitting line, and there will arise a situation that the input gate is broken down.","As a countermeasure for this problem, the size of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is increased, whereby an allowable value of the resistance of the ground wiring is made large. As the size of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is increased, however, routing a wiring other than the LSI ground wiring or its resistance are affected, and a significant restriction occurs with layout and design of external connecting terminals (pin). Such problem occurs similarly in an LSI in which a thick oxide element is used.","As described above, in a conventional LSI in which the ground line separation technique and a plurality of power supply systems of different power supply systems are employed, due to a voltage drop across the resistance caused when a surge current flows through the ground line, a potential difference between the internal signal transmitting portions between the power supply system circuits increases, and thus, the input gate of the internal circuit is broken down.","According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus comprising:\n\n","According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus comprising:\n\n","According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus comprising:\n\n","The present invention is applied to an LSI using a plurality of power supply systems, in which power supply terminals or ground terminals are separated between the power supply systems, or alternatively, both power supply terminals and ground terminals are separated between the power supply systems.","Embodiments of the present invention will be described hereinafter in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.","In the following embodiments, a plurality of pads are formed on a same semiconductor chip (LSI chip). In the case where the semiconductor chip is packaged, the pads are connected to a plurality of external connecting terminals (e.g., pins and bump electrodes) of a semiconductor device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"In , reference numeral  denotes a VDD pad applied with a power supply potential VDD in a normal operation mode, and reference numeral  denotes a GND pad applied with a ground potential GND. A power supply system circuit  is connected between a power supply line connected to the power supply pad VDD and a ground line connected to the ground pad GND. The power supply system circuit  comprises a plurality of internal circuits (in , two internal circuits) , input protecting circuits  connected to input sides of the internal circuits , and output logic setting circuits  connected to output sides of the internal circuits .","Each of the internal circuits  includes an input circuit which is inputted with a signal from an internal circuit of a power supply system circuit  of another power supply system via an internal signal transmitting line (boundary signal transmitting line) . Each of the internal circuits  also includes an output circuit which outputs a signal to an internal circuit of a power supply system circuit  of a further power supply system via another internal signal transmitting line . Each of the input protecting circuit  uses, for example, a voltage limiting circuit that limits an input voltage level. A reset signal ESD-RESET is applied to each of the output logic setting circuits . The reset signal ESD-RESET is generated when a surge input has been detected by a surge input detecting circuit (not shown).","Each of the input protecting circuits  prevents a MOS element in an input circuit with which the input protecting circuit  is associated from being broken down, when a potential of a power supply system the input circuit belongs becomes higher than that of a power supply system to which an output circuit which is at a signal send-out side belongs (i.e., when a signal having a lower level than a ground level is received). The reset signal ESD-RESET may not be supplied to the input protecting circuit , and specific examples will be described later.","Each of the output logic setting circuits  is also prevents a MOS element in an input circuit at a signal receipt side from being broken down, when a potential of a power supply system to which an output circuit associated with the output logic setting circuits  belongs becomes higher than that of a power supply system to which the input circuit at the signal receive side belongs, by lowering the potential of an output signal outputted from the output circuit.","Some specific examples of the output logic setting circuit  will be described later. In addition, some specific examples of the surge input detecting circuit, which generates the reset signal ESD-RESET when a surge input has been detected, will also be described later.","In the following description, a signal for resetting the input protecting circuit  or output logic setting circuit  upon detection of a surge input is referred to as a reset signal ESD-RESET. Also, a signal becoming a high level \u201cH\u201d is referred to as ERESETB, and a signal becoming a low level \u201cL\u201d is referred to as ERESET, when ESD-RESET is active (in a reset state).","<Specific Example 1 of Input Protecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["14","14","1","1","1","1","1","1","14","2","2","2","1","2","2","2"]},"The junction node of the gates of the first PMOS transistor QP and the first NMOS transistor QN are connected to a reset signal line to which a reset signal ERESETB. The junction node (i.e., an input node) of the gates of the second PMOS transistor QP and the second transistor QN are connected to an internal signal transmitting line . The junction node (i.e., an output node) of the drains of the second PMOS transistor QP and the second transistor QN are connected to an input node of an internal circuit.","In the structure of the circuit as described above, in the normal operation, the first PMOS transistor QP is turned ON by ERESTEB=\u201cL\u201d, and the first NMOS transistor QN is turned OFF. Thus, the second PMOS transistor QP and the second NMOS transistor QN function as an inverter circuit.","When a surge is inputted, if a voltage of the power supply line VDD is, for example, 12 V, a voltage of the ground line GND is, for example, 6 V, and an input signal from the internal signal transmitting line  is 0 V, the first PMOS transistor QP is reversed to OFF by ERESETB=\u201cH\u201d, and the first NMOS transistor QN is reversed to ON. In this manner, the potential of the source and substrate region of the second PMOS transistor QP become GND. In this state, a voltage of 6 V is applied to a gate oxide of any element of the input protecting circuit.","The input protecting circuit shown in  is a circuit having a function of an inverter and a function of an element protecting circuit by ERESETB. When the surge input detecting circuit has detected a surge input, the potential of the source and the substrate of the PMOS transistor QP are set at GND potentials of a power supply system circuit to which the PMOS transistor QP belong, and in all of the elements of the input protecting circuit, a voltage to be applied to the gate oxide (i.e., a voltage between the gate and the source, a voltage between the gate and drain, and a voltage between the gate and the substrate) is limited, and the break down of the elements is prevented. Conventionally, 12 V is applied to the gate oxide in general, and thus in the case where the gate breakdown voltage is 6 V, the element is break down. However, in this example, in the case where the gate breakdown voltage is 6 V, since only 6 V is applied, no break down occurs.","<Specific Example 1 of Surge Input Detecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"In a normal state, assuming that a voltage of the ESD application node SIN is, for example, 1.5V, a voltage in the forward direction is insufficient in each of the diodes D, and the diodes D are turned OFF. In addition, the input node of the inverter circuit IV is set to ground potential, i.e., \u201cL\u201d, and the output signal ERESET is set to \u201cH\u201d. When an ESD is applied, if a voltage of the ESD application node increases, the diodes D are turned ON. The input node of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cH\u201d, and the output signal ERESET is set to \u201cL\u201d.","A threshold voltage Vth of the surge input detecting circuit is greater than an LSI power supply voltage and smaller than a gate breakdown voltage of an element targeted for protection.","<Specific Example 2 of Surge Input Detecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["1","2","1","1","2","1","2"]},"In the above circuit configuration, assume that in an initial state, the potential of the RC junction node NS is equal to GND potential. When a surge input has been applied and a potential of the node SIN rises, an input potential of the inverter circuit IV changes from GND potential to follow a change of the potential of the node SIN. The speed of such a change depends on a time constant of RC. In the normal state, the input potential of the inverter circuit IV is equal to the potential of the node SIN. Thus, the output signal ERESETB of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cL\u201d, and the output signal ERESET of an inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cH\u201d. When a surge is inputted, the potential of the node NS increases for a short time as compared with the time constant of RC. The output signal ERESETB of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cH\u201d, and the output signal ERESET of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cL\u201d. In consideration of a surge input time (i.e., a period of time of a surge input), the time constant of RC is set so that, during surge input time, the output signal ERESETB of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cH\u201d and the output signal ERESET of the inverter circuit IV is set to \u201cL\u201d.","<Specific Example 3 of Surge Input Detecting Circuit>","A high voltage detecting circuit shown in  is disclosed in Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 6-95545. When an input signal of a normal operation level is inputted to an external terminal , an input circuit  detects the input signal. On the other hand, for example, when a high voltage greater than the normal operation level is inputted in the test mode, a high voltage detecting circuit  detects the high voltage. When an ESD is applied, it is possible to detect the ESD by a high voltage detecting circuit . A detection output of the high voltage detecting circuit  may be used as the reset signal ERESETB.","The input protecting circuit  is not limited to a circuit as shown in , which requires the reset signal ESD-RESET. Instead, a voltage limiting circuit of such a type, which does not require a reset signal as shown in, for example, ,  or .","<Specific Example 2 of Input Protecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","1","1","1","1","16"]},"The input protecting circuit  further comprises a second PMOS transistor QP and a second NMOS transistor QN. The source-drain path of the second PMOS transistor QP is connected between the input node and a gate of the first PMOS transistor QP. The substrate and source of the second PMOS transistor QP are interconnected, and the gate of the second PMOS transistor QP is connected to the ground line. Further, the drain-source path of the second NMOS transistor QN is connected between the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP and the ground line. The substrate and source of the second NMOS transistor QN are interconnected, and a gate of the second NMOS transistor QN is connected to the drain junction node (i.e., output node) of the first PMOS transistor QP and the first NMOS transistor QN.","In the structure of the circuit as described above, in the initial state, when an input signal inputted from via the internal signal transmitting line  is \u201cH\u201d, the second PMOS transistor QP is ON, the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP is \u201cH\u201d, the first PMOS transistor QP is OFF, the first NMOS transistor QN is ON, and the output node is \u201cL\u201d.","In the normal state, the first PMOS transistor QP and the first NMOS transistor QN function as an inverter circuit. When the input signal inputted from via the internal signal transmitting line  is changed to \u201cL\u201d, the first NMOS transistor QN is turned OFF, and the potential of the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP is lowered and the potential of the output node is increased. In accordance therewith, the second NMOS transistor QN is turned ON, and the potential of the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP is changed to \u201cL\u201d, and the potential of the output node is changed to \u201cH\u201d.","On the other hand, when the input signal inputted from via the internal signal transmitting line  is changed to \u201cH\u201d, the first NMOS transistor QN is ON, and the potential of the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP is increased and the potential of the output node is decreased. In accordance therewith, the second NMOS transistor QN is turned OFF, and the potential of the output node is changed to \u201cL\u201d.","When a surge is inputted, if a voltage of the power supply line VDD is, for example, 12 V, a voltage of the ground line GND is, for example, 6 V, and an input signal from the internal signal transmitting line  is 0 V, the first NMOS transistor QN is turned OFF, and the gate potential of the first PMOS transistor QP is lowered. As a result, the potential of the gate of the first PMOS transistor QP is equal to GND, and the potential of the output node is equal to VDD, by a positive feedback circuit comprised of the first PMOS transistor QP and the second NMOS transistor QN. In this state, a voltage of 6 V is applied to a gate oxide of any element of the input protecting circuit.","The input protecting circuit as shown in , which does not require a reset signal, is a circuit having a function of an inverter and a function of an element protecting circuit. When a potential lower than GND potential is inputted, the potential of the source and the substrate of the PMOS transistor QP are set at GND potentials of a power supply system circuit to which the PMOS transistor QP belong, and in all of the elements of the input protecting circuit, a voltage to be applied to the gate oxide (i.e., a voltage between the gate and the source, a voltage between the gate and drain, and a voltage between the gate and the substrate) is limited, and the break down of the elements is prevented. Conventionally, 12 V is applied to the gate oxide, and thus in the case where the gate breakdown voltage is 6 V, the element is break down. However, in this example, since only 6 V is applied, no break down occurs.","<Specific Example 3 of Input Protecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},"In this surge input detecting circuit, a current limiting resistor element R is connected between an input node to which a signal is inputted via the internal signal transmitting line  and an output node from which the singal is outputted to an internal circuit. A diode D is connected in the forward direction between a ground line GND and the output node.","In the circuit structure as described above, in the normal state, the diode D is turned off, since it is biased in the reverse direction. When a surge is inputted, if a voltage of the ground line GND is, for example, 6 V, and an input signal from the internal signal transmitting line  is 0 V, the diode D is biased in the forward direction. As a result, a potential at the junction node (an output node) between the resistor element R and the diode D is set to 5 V which is reduced from 6 V by a forward direction voltage VF (about 1 V) of the diode D. Then, a potential of the output node with respect to GND is limited to \u22121 V.","In this example of the input protecting circuit, the signal transmission speed is reduced by the resistor element R and a parasitic capacitance of the diode D. The input protecting circuit in this example is more suitable to a low speed signal than those in examples 1 and 2.","<Specific Example 4 of Input Protecting Circuit>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]},"In this surge input detecting circuit, a current limiting resistor element R is connected between an input node to which a signal is inputted via the internal signal transmitting line  and an output node from which the singal is outputted to an internal circuit. A first diode D is connected in the forward direction between a ground line GND and the output node. A second diode D is connected in the forward direction between the output node and a power supply line VDD.","In the circuit structure as described above, in the normal state, the diodes D and D are turned off, since these diodes are biased in the reverse direction.","When a surge is inputted, if a voltage of the ground line GND is, for example, 6 V, and an input signal from the internal signal transmitting line  is 0 V, the first diode D connected between the ground line GND and the output node is biased in the forward direction. As a result, a potential at the junction node (an output node) between the resistor element R and the diodes D and D is set to 5 V which is reduced from 6 V by a forward direction voltage VF (about 1 V) of the first diode D. Then, a potential of the output node with respect to GND is limited to \u22121 V.","On the other hand, when a surge is inputted, if a voltage of the power supply line VDD is, for example, 0 V, and an input signal from the internal signal transmitting line  is 6 V, the second diode D connected between the output node and the power supply line VDD is biased in the forward direction. As a result, a potential of the output node is set to 1 V which is increased from 0 V by a forward direction voltage VF (about 1 V) of the second diode D, and a potential of the output node with respect to VDD is limited to 1 V.","<Specific Example 4 of Surge Input Detecting Circuit>","In a surge input detecting circuit shown in , a current limiting resistor element R and a first diode D in a reverse direction are connected in series between an input node and GND. In addition, a second diode D is connected in the reverse direction between a VDD node of a power supply system circuit to which the surge input detecting circuit belongs and the junction node between the resistor element R and the first diode D. A potential of the junction node between the resistor element R and the first diode D is wave-shaped by the two-stage inverter circuits IV and IV to generate complementary reset signals ERESET and ERESETB.","<Specific Example of Output Logic Setting Circuit>","In the output logic setting circuit  shown in , an output signal from an internal circuit corresponding to the output logic setting circuit  is forcibly set to \u201cL\u201d upon detection of a surge input, thereby limiting an input voltage level to an internal circuit of a power supply system at the succeeding stage, to which the output signal is supplied.","That is, the output logic setting circuit  carries out the normal operation when the reset signal ESD-RESET is not active. When the reset signal ESD-RESET is active (in the time of a surge input), the output signal is fixed to \u201cL\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"],"b":["15","101","102","101"]},"This output logic setting circuit carries out the normal operation when the reset signal ERESET is set at \u201cH\u201d, and the signal of the internal circuit is outputted via the NAND gate circuit  and the inverter circuit . When the reset signal ERESET is set at \u201cL\u201d, the output signal of the NAND gate circuit  is set to \u201cH\u201d, and the output signal of the inverter circuit  is fixed to \u201cL\u201d.","According to the LSI above described, the input protecting circuit  and the output logic setting circuit  are connected to an internal circuit of each of the power supply systems. Thus, as described later in detail, the internal circuit of each power supply system can be easily protected from a surge input. In addition, in the case where the ground line of each power supply system is separated by, for example, a back to back diode, it becomes unnecessary to ensure a large allowable value of a resistance component of the ground line by increasing the size of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit, and a restriction for the allowable value of the resistance component of the ground line is alleviated. Further, a limit value of a potential difference between different power supplies is alleviated, making it possible to reduce the size of a voltage clamping element connected to each power supply system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},"In the LSI shown in , when a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of a first power supply system circuit PS to a power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of a second power supply system circuit PS through an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the first power supply system circuit PS, a separate GND coupling circuit , and an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the second power supply system circuit PS, a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V, a potential of a ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a potential of a ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is 1.5 V. At this time, a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is \u22121.5 V, and a surge input detecting circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS outputs an active ESD-RESET signal. That is, the potential of 6 V of the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cL\u201d level signal RESET, and the potential of 12 V of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cH\u201d level signal ERESETB. The reset signal ESD-RESET is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS.","As a result, an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is fixed to 6 V, and an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is between 0 v and 1.5 V.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 6 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of the second power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V. However, a protecting operation is carried out by the input protecting circuits provided corresponding to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. Thus, gates of MOS elements in the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS are not broken down. In addition, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is limited to 6 V, and thus, a voltage smaller than the gate breakdown voltage 6 V of MOS elements in the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is applied thereto. Therefore, the gates of these MOS elements are also not broken down.","Any of the above-described examples may be used as the input protecting circuit provided corresponding to the input circuits shown in . That is, the input protecting circuit which requires a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. Alternatively, the input protecting circuit which does not require a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. In addition, a circuit with diodes D in a multi-stage manner, as shown in  or a circuit including a resistor R and a capacitor C, as shown in , is suitable for the surge input detecting circuit  shown in .","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","The separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. This connection scheme is referred to as \u201cback-to-back connected diodes\u201d. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0116"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"In the LSI shown in , when a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of a first power supply system circuit PS to a power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of a second power supply system circuit PS through an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the first power supply system circuit PS, a separate GND coupling circuit , and an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the second power supply system circuit PS, a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V, a potential of a ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a potential of a ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is 1.5 V. At this time, a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is \u22121.5 V. Then, a surge input detecting circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS detects that a negative surge has been applied from the power supply terminal VDD=0 V of the second power supply system circuit PS, which is lower than the ground terminal GND=6 V of the first power supply system circuit PS, and outputs an active ESD-RESET signal.","That is, the potential of 6 V of the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cL\u201d level signal RESET, and the potential of 12 V of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cH\u201d level signal ERESETB. The reset signal ESD-RESET is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS.","As a result, an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is fixed to 6 V, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is between 0 v and 1.5 V.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 6 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of the second power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, a protecting operation is carried out by the input protecting circuits provided corresponding to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. Thus, gates of MOS elements in the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS are not broken down. In addition, the maximum voltage applied to input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is limited to 6 V, and thus, the gates of the MOS elements in the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are also not broken down.","Any of the examples as described may be used as the input protecting circuit provided corresponding to the input circuits shown in . That is, the input protecting circuit which requires a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. Alternatively, the input protecting circuit which does not require a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. In addition, a circuit including a resistor element R and diodes D, as shown in, for example,  is suitable for the surge input detecting circuit  shown in .","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","The separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},"In the LSI shown in , when a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of a first power supply system circuit PS to a power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of a second power supply system circuit PS through an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the first power supply system circuit PS, a separate GND coupling circuit , and an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the second power supply system circuit PS, a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V, a potential of a ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a potential of a ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is 1.5 V. At this time, a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is \u22121.5 V, and a surge input detecting circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS outputs an active ESD-RESET signal. That is, the potential of 6 V of the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cL\u201d level signal ERESET, and the potential of 12 V of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is outputted as a \u201cH\u201d level signal ERESETB. The reset signal ESD-RESET is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS.","Furthermore, the reset signal ESD-RESET is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. However, at this time, the input circuits and output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are at a non-operation state because of the power supply voltage being negative, and the reset signal ESD-RESET input is invalid.","As a result, an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is fixed to 6 V, and an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is between 0 v and 1.5 V.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 6 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of the second power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V. However, a negative voltage with regard to the GND reference is inputted, a protecting operation is carried out by the input protecting circuits provided corresponding to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. Thus, gates of MOS elements in the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS are not broken down. In addition, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is limited to 6 V, and thus, MOS elements in the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are also not broken down.","Any of the examples as described may be used as the input protecting circuit provided corresponding to the input circuits shown in  That is, the input protecting circuit which requires a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. Alternatively, the input protecting circuit which does not require a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. In addition, a circuit with diodes D in a multi-stage manner, as shown in  or a circuit including a resistor R and a capacitor C, as shown in , is suitable for the surge input detecting circuit  shown in .","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","The separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},"In the LSI shown in , when a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of a first power supply system circuit PS to a power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of a second power supply system circuit PS through an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the first power supply system circuit PS, a separate GND coupling circuit , and an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the second power supply system circuit PS, a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V, a potential of a ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a potential of a ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is 1.5 V. At this time, a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is \u22121.5 V, and a surge input detecting circuit  of the second power supply system circuit PS outputs an active ESD-RESET signal (1.5 V).","The reset signal ESD-RESET of 1.5 V is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. However, at this time, the input circuits and output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are at a non-operation state because of the power supply voltage being negative, and the reset signal ESD-RESET input is invalid.","Furthermore, the reset signal ESD-RESET of 1.5 V is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The 1.5 V reset signal ESD-RESET is lower than 6 V of the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS, and is thus determined to be \u201cL\u201d in the first power supply system circuit PS.","As a result, an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is fixed to 6 V, and an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is between 0 v and 1.5 V.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 6 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of the second power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V. However, a protecting operation is carried out by the input protecting circuits provided corresponding to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. Thus, gates of MOS elements in the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS are not broken down. In addition, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is limited to 6 V, and thus, MOS elements in the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are also not broken down.","Any of the examples as described may be used as the input protecting circuit provided corresponding to the input circuits shown in . That is, the input protecting circuit which requires a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. Alternatively, the input protecting circuit which does not require a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. In addition, a circuit with diodes D in a multi-stage manner, as shown in  or a circuit including a resistor R and a capacitor C, as shown in , is suitable for the surge input detecting circuit  shown in . In the case where the circuit shown in  is used as a surge input detecting circuit shown in , it is necessary to generate the ERESET or ERESETB signal from a signal of the RC junction node NS shown in  as a signal supplied to the first power supply system circuit PS. This is because a negative power supply voltage is applied to the second power supply system circuit PS, the inverters IV and IV do not operate normally, and thus, normal ERESET or ERESETB cannot be obtained. In order to provide the ESD-RESET signal to the output circuits or the output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS, a circuit similar to the inverters IV and IV as shown in  is provided in the first power supply system circuit PS. Then, the ERESET or ERESETB signal is generated from the signal of the RC junction node NS by the operation of these inverters IV and IV.","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","The separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).","In the first to fourth embodiments as described, there have been shown the examples of using a reset signal ESD-RESET outputted from the surge input detecting circuit provided in either or both of two power supply system circuits through which a surge current flows. In a fifth embodiment according to the present invention, a description will be given with respect to an example of supplying a reset signal ESD-RESET outputted from a surge input detecting circuit provided in a power supply system circuit through which a surge current does not flow to another power supply system circuit through which a surge current flows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0145"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},"In the LSI shown in , when a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of a first power supply system circuit PS to a power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of a second power supply system circuit PS through an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the first power supply system circuit PS, a separate GND coupling circuit , and an electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD of the second power supply system circuit PS, a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V, a potential of a ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a potential of a ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is 1.5 V. At this time, a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a voltage across the power supply terminal VDD and the ground terminal GND of the second power supply system circuit PS is \u22121.5 V.","On the other hand, since a third power supply system circuit PS is a circuit which is out of a surge current path, and the power supply terminal VDD and ground terminal GND are 0 V, respectively. A surge input detecting circuit  of the third power supply system circuit PS outputs an active ESD-RESET signal (0 V).","The reset signal ESD-RESET of 0 V is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. In this case, the reset signal ESD-RESET is lower than 6 V of the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS, and is thus determined to be \u201cL\u201d in the first power supply system circuit PS.","Furthermore, the reset signal ESD-RESET of 0 V is supplied to each of input protecting circuits corresponding to input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is also supplied to each of output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS. However, at this time, the input circuits and output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS are at a non-operation state because of the power supply voltage being negative, and the reset signal ESD-RESET input is invalid.","As a result, an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is fixed to 6 V, and an output potential of the output logic setting circuits corresponding to output circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is between 0 V and 1.5 V.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 6 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD (=0 V) of the second power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is 12 V. However, a protecting operation is carried out by the input protecting circuits provided corresponding to the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS. Thus, gates of MOS elements in the input circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS are not broken down. In addition, the maximum voltage applied to the input circuits of the second power supply system circuit PS is limited to 6 V, and thus, MOS elements in the input circuit group of the second power supply system circuit PS are also not broken down.","In the third power supply system circuit PS shown in , no element is shown other than the power supply terminal VDD, the ground terminal GND, and the surge input detecting circuit . This means that internal circuits, input circuits, and output circuits may be provided or not.","Any of the examples as described may be used as the input protecting circuit provided corresponding to the input circuits shown in . That is, the input protecting circuit which requires a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used. Alternatively, the input protecting circuit which does not require a reset signal ESD-RESET may be used.","In addition, a circuit including a resistor R and a capacitor C, as shown in , is suitable for the surge input detecting circuit  shown in . In the case where the circuit shown in  is used as a surge input detecting circuit shown in , it is necessary to generate the ERESET or ERESETB signal from a signal of the RC junction node NS shown in  as a signal supplied to the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS. This is because no power supply voltage is applied to the third power supply system circuit PS, the inverters IV and IV do not operate normally, and thus, normal ERESET or ERESETB cannot be obtained. In order to provide the ESD-RESET signal to the output circuits or the output circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS, a circuit similar to the inverters IV and IV as shown in  is provided in the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS. Then, the ERESET or ERESETB signal is generated from the signal of the RC junction node NS by the operation of these inverters IV and IV.","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","The separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).","<Case Where Power Supply System is \u201cn\u201d>","Assuming that input circuits and output circuits of each power supply system circuit are collectively referred to as input\/output circuits, there have been shown the examples in the first to fourth embodiments, in which the input\/output circuits of a power supply system circuit transmit\/receive a signal to\/from the input\/output circuits of another power supply system circuit. Hereinafter, a description will be given with respect to some examples in which the input\/output circuits of a power supply system circuit transmit\/receive a signal to\/from the input\/output circuits of other (n-) power supply system circuits in an LSI using a ground line separation technique and \u201cn\u201d power supplies.","In LSIs shown in , input\/output circuits - and - for transmitting\/receiving a signal between two power supply system circuits are collectively referred to as signal transmission\/reception circuits . Similarly, input\/output circuits -and n- are collectively referred to as signal transmission\/reception circuits . Similarly, input\/output circuits -and n- are collectively referred to as further signal transmission\/reception circuits. In each of the power supply system circuits PS and PS, circuit elements (internal circuits, power supply terminals, ground terminals, separate GND coupling circuits, electrostatic discharge protecting circuits between VDD and GND, and the like) other than the input\/output circuits - and - to -are not shown.","<First Application Example Showing an Example in which The First Embodiment is Applied, Assuming that, in an LSI in which \u201cn\u201d Power Supply Systems are Provided, the Signal Transmission\/Reception Circuits are Associated with Two Power Supply System Circuits>","In the LSI shown in , a surge input detecting circuit (shown in , for example) is provided in each of the power supply system circuits PS, PS, . . . PSn.","<Second Application Example Showing an Example in which>the Second Embodiment is Applied, Assuming that, in an LSI in which \u201cn\u201d Power Supply Systems are Provided, the Signal Transmission\/Reception Circuits are Associated with Two Power Supply System Circuits>","In the LSI shown in , surge input detecting circuits (shown in , for example) are provided in the signal transmission\/reception circuits  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS and in the signal transmission\/reception circuits  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the n-th power supply system circuit PSn. The surge input detecting circuits in each of the signal transmission\/reception circuits each refer a potential of the power supply terminal of the power supply system circuit to which the other surge input detecting circuit belongs.","A reset signal ESD-RESET is inputted to the input\/output circuit - of the signal transmission\/reception circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is generated by a surge input detecting circuit, which refers to a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the second power supply system circuit PS. A reset signal ESD-RESET is inputted to the input\/output circuit - of the signal transmission\/reception circuit  of the second power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is generated by a surge input detecting circuit, which refers a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS.","On the other hand, a reset signal ESD-RESET is inputted to the input\/output circuit -of the signal transmission\/reception circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS. The reset signal ESD-RESET is generated by a surge input detecting circuit, which refers a potential VDDn of the n-th power supply system circuit PSn. A reset signal ESD-RESET is inputted to the input\/output circuit n- of the signal transmission\/reception circuit  of the n-th power supply system circuit PSn. The reset signal ESD-RESET is generated by a surge input detecting circuit, which refers a potential of the power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS.","<Third Application Example Showing an Example in which the Third or Fourth Embodiment is Applied, Assuming that, in an LSI in which \u201cn\u201d Power Supply Systems are Provided, the Signal Transmission\/Reception Circuits>are Associated with Two Power Supply System Circuits","In the LSI shown in , a surge input detecting circuit which generates the reset signals ESD-RESET for use in the signal transmission\/reception circuit  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS is composed of, for example, the resistor R and the capacitor C, as shown in . The surge input detecting circuit is provided in the first power supply system circuit PS or the second power supply system circuit PS. A surge input detecting circuit which generates the reset signals ESD-RESET for use in the signal transmission\/reception circuit  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the n-th power supply system circuit PSn is also composed of, for example, the resistor R and the capacitor C, as shown in . The surge input detecting circuit is provided in the first power supply system circuit PS or the n-th power supply system circuit PS.","In the case where the surge input detecting circuits which generate the reset signals ESD-RESET for the signal transmission\/reception circuit  and the surge input detecting circuist which generate the reset signals ESD-RESET for the signal transmission\/reception circuit  are provided in the same power supply system circuit, they may not be individually provided. A reduced number of surge input detecting circuits may be provided and shared to reduce the circuit scale.","Surge input detecting circuits can be provided in signal transmission\/reception circuits other than the signal transmission\/reception circuits  and  in the same manner as described above.","<Fourth Application Example Showing an Example in which the Fifth Embodiment is Applied, Assuming that, in an LSI in which \u201cn\u201d Power Supply Systems are Provided, the Signal Transmission\/Reception Circuits are Associated with Two Power Supply System Circuits>","In the LSI shown in , a surge input detecting circuit  which generates the reset signals ESD-RESET for use in the signal transmission\/reception circuit  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS is provided at the other power supply system circuit (in this example, a third power supply system circuit PS).","In this case, it is necessary to shut down at the same time a power supply system circuit to which the surge input detecting circuit  belongs (i.e., third power supply system circuit PS in this example) and at least one of two power supply system circuits including the signal transmission\/reception circuit  (i.e., first power supply circuit PS and second power supply system circuit PS in this example). In this example, it is necessary to shut down at the same time the first power supply system circuit PS and the third power supply system circuit PS, or the second power supply system circuit PS and the third power supply system circuit PS.","Surge input detecting circuits can be provided, in the same manner as described above, for other signal transmission\/reception circuits than the signal transmission\/reception circuit  (for example, signal transmission\/reception circuit  between the first power supply system circuit PS and the n-th power supply system circuit PSn).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0174"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"b":["1","2","3"]},"A second ground line  connected to a ground terminal GND of the second supply system circuit PS is connected to a first ground line  connected to a ground terminal GND of the first supply system circuit PS through a diode circuit comprising back-to-back connected diodes DF and DR. Also, the second ground line  is connected to a third ground line  connected to a ground terminal GND of the third supply system circuit PS through a diode circuit comprising back-to-back connected diodes DF and DR. With this structure, the ground lines , , and  are separated one from the other. A resistance component of the second ground line  is shown by R.","Electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD, ESD, and ESD of, for example, 1.5 V system are connected between a power supply line and a ground line of the power supply system circuits PS, PS, and PS, correspondingly. In addition, in each of the power supply system circuits PS, PS, and PS, an input protecting circuit  of such a type in which, for example, does not require a reset signal is connected to an input side of an internal circuit, and an output logic setting circuit  is connected to an output side of the internal circuit.","An example of operation of the circuit shown in  will be described hereafter. Assume that a surge is applied, and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from a power supply terminal VDD of the second power supply system circuit PS through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD, the second ground line , the third ground line , the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit ESD, and a power supply terminal VDD of the third power supply system circuit PS.","When the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a positive current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a positive maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from VDD to GND), a forward direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 6 V. On the other hand, when the maximum surge current IESDMAX is a negative current and flows through the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit (i.e., when a negative maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from GND to VDD), a reverse direction voltage of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is 1.5 V. A forward direction voltage and reverse direction voltage of the separate GND coupling circuit are 4.5 V. A gate breakdown voltage of MOS transistors is 7 V. These voltage values are merely examples for explanation, and the present invention is not limited to these voltage values.","When a surge has been applied and a maximum surge current IESDMAX flows from the power supply terminal VDD of the second power supply system circuit PS to the power supply terminal VDD of the third power supply system circuit PS through the route as described above, the power supply terminal VDD of the second power supply system circuit PS becomes, for example, 12 V, and the power supply terminal VDD of the third power supply system circuit PS becomes, for example, 0 V. Then the ground terminal GND connected to the second ground line  becomes 6 V, a voltage drop across of the resistance component R of the second ground line  becomes 3 V, and the third ground line  and the ground terminal GND connected thereto become 1.5 V. Since the first power supply system circuit PS is not included in the surge current path, the first ground line , the ground terminal GND connected thereto, and a power supply terminal VDD of the first power supply system circuit PS are maintained at 0 V. Since the breakdown voltage of elements is 7 V, if a voltage between an input of the gate and the VDD\/GND is lower than 7 V, the elements are not broken down.","When a level of a signal inputted from the first power supply system circuit PS to the second power supply system circuit PS is set to 0 V, an input node of an inverter circuit IV at a succeeding stage of the input protecting circuit  of the second power supply system circuit PS is set to 5 V, and a voltage difference between the input node of the inverter circuit IV and the power supply voltage 12V upon an ESD voltage application is 7 V. Thus, no problem occurs with a breakdown voltage.","A voltage difference between the ground terminal GND of the first power supply system circuit PS and an input node of the inverter circuit IV of the first power supply system circuit PS inputted with a signal (6 V of \u201cL\u201d level) outputted from the output logic setting circuit  of the first power supply system circuit PS is 6 V, and a difference between the input node of the inverter circuit IV of the first power supply system circuit PS and the power supply voltage 0V upon an ESD voltage application is 6 V. Thus, no problem occurs with a breakdown voltage.","A voltage difference between the ground terminal GND of the third power supply system circuit PS and an input node of an inverter circuit IV at a succeeding stage of the input protecting circuit  of the third power supply system circuit PS is set to 4.5 V, and a difference between the input node of the inverter circuit IV of the third power supply system circuit PS and the power supply voltage 0V upon an ESD voltage application is 6 V. Thus, no problem occurs with a breakdown voltage.","Each of the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD, ESD and ESD is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of a thyristor and a diode connected in parallel between VDD and GND, the thyristor is connected in the forward direction, and the diode is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to VDD and whose source and gate are connected to GND.","As shown in , the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a parallel connection circuit of two diodes connected in parallel, one of the diodes is connected in the forward direction, and the other of the diodes is connected in the reverse direction. Alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, an NMOS transistor whose drain is connected to one terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit and whose source and gate are connected to the other terminal of the separate GND coupling circuit. Further alternatively, the separate GND coupling circuit is formed of, for example, a conductive material member (e.g., metal wiring).","<Specific Example of Second Application Example>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0185"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["1","3"]},"In , reference numeral  denotes a power supply terminal (VDD pad) applied with a first power supply voltage VDD in the normal operation, and reference numeral  denotes a ground terminal (GND pad) applied with a first ground voltage GND. Reference numeral  denotes a power supply terminal (VDD pad) applied with a second power supply voltage VDD in the normal operation, and reference numeral  denotes a ground terminal (GND pad) applied with a second ground voltage GND. Reference numeral  denotes a power supply terminal (VDD pad) applied with a third power supply voltage VDD in the normal operation, and reference numeral  denotes a ground terminal (GND pad) applied with a third ground voltage GND.","In the first power supply system circuit PS, the second power supply system circuit PS, and the third power supply circuit PS, the electrostatic discharge protecting circuits ESD, SED, and ESD as shown in  are connected respectively between a power supply terminal and a ground terminal, though not shown. A diode circuit, not shown, composed of back-to-back connected diodes RF and DR, as shown in , is connected between a GND pad and a GND pad and between the GND pad and a GND pad. In addition, the ground line of each of the power supply system circuits PS to PS is separated.","In this example, internal circuits of the first power supply system circuit PS is divided into two internal circuit groups (A) and (B). An input protecting circuit group (A) A and an output logic setting circuit group (A) A are provided in association with the internal circuit group (A). In addition, a surge input detecting circuit is provided in association with the internal circuit group (A) to detect an ESD input applied to the power supply line of the second power supply system circuit PS. A detection output of the surge input detecting circuit is supplied as a reset signal ESD-RESET to the input protecting circuit group (A) A and the output logic setting circuit group (A) A.","Similarly, an input protecting circuit group (B) B and an output logic setting circuit group (B) B are provided in association with the internal circuit group (B) of the first power supply system circuit PS. In addition, a surge input detecting circuit is provided in association with the internal circuit group (B) to detect an ESD input applied to the power supply line of the third power supply system circuit PS. A detection output of the surge input detecting circuit is supplied as a reset signal ESD-RESET to the input protecting circuit group (B) B and the output logic setting circuit group (B) B.","Input protecting circuits (C) C and output logic setting circuits (C) C are provided in association with the internal circuits (C) of the second power supply system circuit PS. In addition, a surge input detecting circuit  is provided in association with the internal circuit group (C) to detect an ESD input applied to the power supply line of the first power supply system circuit PS. A detection output of the surge input detecting circuit  is supplied as a reset signal ESD-RESET to the input protecting circuits (C) C and the output logic setting circuits (C) C.","Similarly, input protecting circuits (D) D and output logic setting circuits (D) D are provided in association with the internal circuits (D) of the third power supply system circuit PS. In addition, a surge input detecting circuit  is provided in association with the internal circuit group (D) to detect an ESD input applied to the power supply line of the first power supply system circuit PS. A detection output of the surge input detecting circuit  is supplied as a reset signal ESD-RESET to the input protecting circuits (D) D and the output logic setting circuits (D) D.","In the first power supply system circuit PS and the second power supply system circuit PS, references are made each to a power supply potential of the other power supply system circuit to detect an ESD input to the power supply line of said other power supply system circuit, and the input protecting circuits and output logic setting circuits of one power supply system circuit (i.e., not said other power supply system circuit) are operated to carry out an ESD protecting operation. During normal operation, the protecting operation by the input protecting circuits or output logic setting circuits is not effected.","In the internal circuits of the internal circuit group (B) in the first power supply system circuit PS and internal circuits (D) in the third power supply system circuit PS, references are made each to a power supply potential of the other power supply system circuit to detect an ESD input to the power supply line of said other power supply system circuit, and the input protecting circuits and output logic setting circuits of one power supply system circuit (i.e., not said other power supply system circuit) are operated to carry out an ESD protecting operation. During normal operation, the protecting operation by the input protecting circuits or output logic setting circuits is not effected.","A circuit including a resistor R and diodes D, as shown in, for example, , is used as the surge input detecting circuits , , , and . In this case, the level detection type ESD-RESET signal generator circuit as shown in  or the delay type ESD-RESET signal generator circuit as shown in  may not be provided, facilitating LSI production.","An example of an operation of the CMOS LSI shown in  will be described hereinbelow.","A basic operation is described first. In the case where a surge input has been applied to one power supply system circuit, the surge input is detected by a surge input detecting circuit of another power supply system circuit. By using the detection output of the surge input detecting circuit, an input circuit to which a signal from said one power supply system circuit is protected, and an output logic level of an output circuit which outputs a signal to said one power supply system circuit is set to \u201cL\u201d.","The CMOS LSI shown in  is featured in that the surge input detecting circuits each are provided correspondingly to power supply system circuits to which the input circuit or the output circuit is connected. Therefore, for example, when only the second power supply system circuit PS is shut down, the shutdown is detected by the surge input detecting circuit of the first power supply system circuit PS. In addition, there becomes a state by the detection output of the surge input detecting circuit , in which the input protecting circuit group (A) A and the output logic setting circuit group (A) A carries out a protecting operation. The input protecting circuit group (A) A and the output logic setting circuit group (A) A transmit and receive signals to and from the output logic setting circuit (C) C and the input protecting circuit group (C) C corresponding to the input circuits (C) of the second power supply system circuit PS. At this time, since the second power supply system circuit PS is shut down, no problem occurs. In addition, in the first power supply system circuit PS, an operation of the input protecting circuit group (B) B and the output logic setting circuit group (B) B is not affected by the shutdown of the second power supply system circuit PS or the protecting operation of the input protecting circuit group (A) A and output logic setting circuit group (A) A.","When only the third power supply system circuit PS is shut down, the shutdown is detected by the surge input detecting circuit of the first power supply system circuit PS. In addition, there becomes a state by the detection output of the surge input detecting circuit , in which the input protecting circuit group (B) B and the output logic setting circuit group (B) B at the input side of the internal circuit group (B) carries out a protecting operation. At this time, since the third power supply system circuit PS is shut down, no problem occurs. In addition, in the first power supply system circuit PS, an operation of the output logic setting circuit group (A) A and the output logic setting circuit group (A) A is not affected by the shutdown of the third power supply system circuit PS or the protecting operation of the input protecting circuit group (B) B and output logic setting circuit group (B) B.","When only the first power supply system circuit PS is shut down, the shutdown is detected by the surge input detecting circuit  of the second power supply system circuit PS. In addition, there becomes a state by the detection output of the surge input detecting circuit , in which the input protecting circuit group (C) C and the output logic setting circuit group (C) C at the input side of the internal circuits (C) carries out a protecting operation. In addition, when only the first power supply system circuit PS is shut down, the shutdown is also detected by the surge input detecting circuit  of the third power supply system circuit PS, and there becomes a state by the detection output of the surge input detecting circuit , in which the input protecting circuit group (D) D and the output logic setting circuit group (D) D at the input side of the internal circuits (D) carries out a protecting operation. At this time, since the first power supply system circuit PS is shut down, no problem occurs.","<Another Example Relating to Supply of ESD-RESET Signal>","In the embodiments as described, there has been used the reset signal ESD-RESET generated by detecting the surge input in the case where the input protecting circuit at the input side of the internal circuit and the output logic setting circuit at the output side of the internal circuit require a reset signal. However, a reset signal ESD-RESET may be externally inputted.","In addition, it is possible to share as an ESD-RESET signal line an existing signal line provided for a power down signal supplied to the LSI chip in order to restrict current consumption by stopping a circuit operation while the power for the LSI chip is being ON or a power ON reset signal generated when the power of the LSI chip is turned ON. In order to achieve the sharing, for example, a power down signal (active level is set to \u201cH\u201d) and a ERESETB signal (active level is set to \u201cH\u201d) are inputted to an OR gate, and its output is connected to a common line to supply the power down signal and the ERESETB signal to the common line. In addition, the common line is connected not only to existing circuits using a power down signal and a power on reset signal but also to the input protecting circuit and the output logic setting circuit as described.","Similarly, it is also possible to provide not only a power down signal and a power ON reset signal but also an ESD-RESET signal to a power down signal terminal or a reset signal terminal of part of internal circuits (for example, AD converter, DA converter, analog circuit block such as PLL, or a macro circuit such as digital block). In order to achieve this, an input circuit and an output circuit of such an internal circuit are constructed with a circuit capable of input protection or a circuit capable of fixing an output logic. In addition, signal lines of such an internal circuit, connected to a power down signal terminal and a reset signal terminal, are connected to the circuit capable of input protection and the circuit capable of fixing an output logic.","<Design Technique if Applied to Logic Synthesis or Automatic Design Using an Automatic Place and Route>","In the case where the embodiments as described are applied to logic synthesis or automatic design using an automatic place and route, if an input circuit with an input protecting circuit, an output circuit with an output logic setting circuit, and a surge input detecting circuit, as described, are registered as cells, it is possible to design the LSIs of the embodiments, without necessity of paying attention to the input protecting circuit, output logic setting circuit, and surge input detecting circuit as described.","In such a case, for example, in logic synthesis or prior to layout design after the logic synthesis, based on information on the presence or absence of a power supply system circuit and a combination of shutdown of the power supply system circuits, and the like, the input circuit and output circuit of each of the power supply system circuits may be automatically replaced with an input circuit having an input protecting circuit and an output circuit having an output logic setting circuit, and also a signal line to which a surge input detecting circuit is connected may be inserted.","According to the semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus of each of the embodiments of the present invention, in the case where a ground line separation technique and a plurality of power supplies are employed, an insulation break down of an input gate of an internal circuit due to a voltage drop across a resistance component when a surge current flows through a ground line can be prevented, and reliability can be enhanced.","In the semiconductor integrated circuit apparatus of each of the embodiments of the present invention, descriptions are made when the potentials of the ground sides of the plurality of power supply system circuits are equal. This manner is generally effective for LSIs in which a P type semiconductor substrate is used.","On the other hand, in the case where LSIs are to be formed by using an N type semiconductor substrate, the LSIs are structured such that the potentials of the power supply sides of the plurality of power supply system circuits are equal. In this case, advantages similar to those as obtained in the above-described embodiments can be obtained. To be specific, in the case of LSIs using an N type semiconductor substrate, the following alterations are made to the above-described embodiments. The AND gate circuit of the output logic setting circuit is changed to an OR gate circuit to set the logic level of the output signal to \u201cH\u201d level, and the reset signal ESD-RESET is changed from ERESET to ERESETB. In the input protecting circuit in , changes are made such that ground potential is applied to VDD and a power supply potential is applied to GND. All of the NMOS transistors are changed to PMOS transistors, and vice versa. In the input protecting circuit in , changes are made such that a power supply potential is applied to GND, and the direction of the diode D is reversed. In  and , a change is made such that the separate GND coupling circuit is connected not between the ground terminals, but between the power supply terminals.","Additional advantages and modifications will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore, the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details and representative embodiments shown and described herein. Accordingly, various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the general inventive concept as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
