---
title: High sensitivity, low noise piezoelelctric flexural sensing structure using <011> poled relaxor-based piezoelectric single crystals
abstract: A piezoelectric flexural sensing structure having increased sensitivity and decreased noise, without sacrifice of the sensor bandwidth. The structure is made up of a proof mass, a beam with a base and optionally having castellated bonding surfaces and two <011> poled bonding mode PMN-PT crystal plates mounted on the beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07104140&OS=07104140&RS=07104140
owner: Wilcoxon Research, Inc.
number: 07104140
owner_city: Gaithersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The present invention was made under United States Navy Office of Naval Research Contract No. N00014-02-M-0171.","The present invention is directed to a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure having increased sensitivity and decreased noise, without sacrificing bandwidth.","Conventionally, a piezoelectric coefficient dvalue of piezoelectric materials, such as PZT, <100> poled PMN-PT single crystals, is a half value of its piezoelectric coefficient d. Due to reduced piezoelectric properties compared to the dmode, a heavy mass (large size sensors) or narrow bandwidth must be adapted to achieve high piezoelectric output. All the old solutions suffered from either lower piezoelectric output (high noise level) or reduced bandwidth when a senor was kept to the same size.","A purpose of the present invention is to increase the sensitivity and decrease the noise of a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure by utilizing the <011> poled PMN-PT single crystal, which possesses the highest piezoelectric coefficient dvalue, and a novel lateral constraint (clamping effect) alleviation mechanism.","By utilizing a <011> poled PMN-PT single crystal, which possesses the highest piezoelectric coefficient dvalue, combined with a novel lateral constraint (clamping effect) alleviation mechanism, a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure with much higher charge sensitivity and lower noise can be realized.","The present invention is directed to a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure which is made up of a proof mass, a beam with a base and optionally having castellated bonding surfaces and two <011> poled bending mode PMN-PT crystal plates mounted on the beam or the castellated bonding surfaces if the beam has such surfaces. The use of castellations to improve sensor performance is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,715,363 issued to Deng et al. and entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Strain Amplification for Piezoelectric Transducers.\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 6,715,363 is incorporated by reference herein.","Referring now to the drawings, a first embodiment of the invention is shown in . In the first embodiment, a bending mode using two piezoelectric crystals mounted on a beam is selected as a basic sensing element. This sensing structure  consists of a proof mass , a beam  with a base , and two <011> poled bending mode PMN-PT crystal plates ,  mounted on opposite surfaces of the beam . A unique feature incorporated in this sensing structure is that the <011> poled PMN-PT single crystal plates ,  have a 40% higher dpiezoelectric coefficient when compared to other poling orientations. This structure is a significant improvement in piezoelectric output of the sensing structure .","In a second embodiment of the invention, a bending mode using two piezoelectric crystals on a beam is also selected as a basic sensing element, but with an additional feature. This sensing structure , which is shown in , consists of a proof mass , a beam  with a base , and two <011> poled bending mode PMN-PT crystal plates ,  mounted on opposite surfaces of the beam . Two unique features are incorporated in this sensing structure. First is that the <011> poled PMN-PT single crystal plates ,  have a 40% higher dpiezoelectric coefficient when compared to other poling orientations. The second is that the bonding surfaces ,  are castellated, i.e., the protrusions ,  are made on the beam gluing surfaces in order to reduce the bonding area on the crystal plates ,  and effectively mitigate the lateral constraint from the gluing surface on the crystal. This results in a significant improvement in the piezoelectric output of the sensing structure .","The old methods employ <100> poled PMN-PT single crystals or other piezoelectric materials, which have low piezoelectric coefficient dvalues, and results in low piezoelectric output and high noise. In contrast, the current invention utilizes new piezoelectric materials, a <011> poled single crystal and a unique bonding surface. This results in the piezoelectric flexural sensing structures presenting a higher sensitivity and lower noise with same dimensions of the sensing structure.","The performance comparison shows that the application of <011> poled crystal with a bending mode sensing structure results in an increase of the piezoelectric output for the sensing structure by a factor of two (\u02dc6 dB). Most significantly, it decreases noise level by 6 dB, which meet today's high technology demands on the sensor noise level.","The invention has been disclosed broadly and illustrated in reference to two representative embodiments described above. Those skilled in the art will recognize that various modifications can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A first embodiment of the invention is shown in the , which shows a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure with <011> poled PMN-PT crystals.","A second embodiment of the invention is shown in the , which shows a piezoelectric flexural sensing structure combined with a novel lateral constraint alleviation mechanism."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
