---
title: Techniques for quantum processing with photons and the zeno effect
abstract: Techniques are provided that use the quantum Zeno effect to implement practical devices that use single photons as the qubits for quantum information processing. In the quantum Zeno effect, a randomly-occurring event is suppressed by frequent measurements to determine whether the event has occurred. The same results can be obtained by using atoms or molecules or ions to react to the occurrence of the event. Techniques include directing one or more input qubits onto a device and applying a quantum Zeno effect in the device. The quantum Zeno effect is applied by consuming one or more photons in the device under conditions in which photons, that would otherwise be output by the device, do not represent a result of a particular quantum information processing operation. Devices implemented using the quantum Zeno effect can operate with low error rates without the need for high efficiency detectors and large number of ancilla.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06995404&OS=06995404&RS=06995404
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 06995404
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040629
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60\/513,402, filed Oct. 22, 2003, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e).","This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DAAD190210069 awarded by the Army Research Office. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to quantum information processing, and, in particular, to techniques for reducing the complexity of quantum processing on quantum bits (qubits) represented by quantum states of single photons.","2. Description of the Related Art","Information processing using classical computers relies on physical phenomena, such as magnetic fields, voltages, and optical intensity that can be produced and measured in each of two basis states, one basis state representing a zero and another basis state representing a one. Each physical element that can achieve either of these two states represents one binary digit, called a bit. Quantum information processing uses physical elements that exhibit quantum properties that may include, not only one of the two or more basis states, but also an arbitrary superposition state of the basis states. A superposition state has some non-zero probability of being measured as one of the basis states and some non-zero probability of being measured as another of the basis states. A physical element that exhibits quantum properties for two basis states represents one quantum bit, also called a qubit. Physical elements that are suitable for representing qubits include the spins of single electrons, electron states in atoms or molecules, nuclear spins in molecules and solids, magnetic flux, spatial propagation modes of single photons, and polarizations of single photons, among others.","Logical operations performed on qubits apply not only to the basis states of those qubits but also to the superposition states of those qubits, simultaneously. Quantum computers based on logical operations on systems of qubits offer the promise of massively simultaneous processing (also called massively parallel processing) that can address problems that are considered intractable with classical information processing. Such classically intractable problems that can be addressed with quantum computers include simulation of quantum interactions, combinatorial searches of unsorted data, finding prime factors of large integers, solving for cryptographic keys used in current secure communication algorithms, and truly secure communications (also called \u201cquantum cryptography\u201d).","Several approaches use single photons to represent qubits. In many respects, single photons are advantageous for serving as qubits in a quantum computer. Photons can be easily generated and manipulated. Optical fibers can be used to make connections in analogy with the wires of a conventional computer; while most other phenomena representing qubits interact only with nearest neighbors. Photons interact only weakly with the environment because photons have no charge and no rest mass. The main difficulty in an optical approach has been the implementation of quantum logic gates due to the weak interaction between individual photons.","One approach uses linear interactions between single photons but relies on interferometer techniques, e.g., interference on two spatial modes of propagation for a single photon. These devices are called \u201cprobabilistic\u201d logical gates because they perform the desired logical operation in response to only a fraction of the input photons. However, it can be determined when an operation is performed successfully, so that, in a separate step often called a \u201cpost selection\u201d step or a \u201cpost-detection selection\u201d step, output photons are blocked unless the operation is successfully performed. It has been shown that the fraction can be increased close to a value of one with sufficient numbers of components and extra photons (called \u201cancilla photons\u201d or \u201cancilla\u201d) in particular states.","While suitable for many purposes, logical gates based on this approach suffer thermally induced phase shifts between photons taking different paths. In addition, this approach suffers from complexity introduced to generate and manipulate a large number of ancilla. Also, such approaches are subject to errors in the detectors used to detect ancilla photons during the post selection step.","In a more recent approach, logical devices that operate on the polarization states of single photons have been proposed that do not suffer thermally induced phase shifts and that do not require as large a number of ancilla and additional components and resources. This approach is described, for example, in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/286,735, filed Nov. 1, 2002, entitled \u201cTechniques for Performing Logic Operations Using Quantum States of Single Photons,\u201d by Todd B. Pittman, James D. Franson and Bryan C. Jacobs (hereinafter referenced as \u201c\u201d).","In another recent approach, the number of ancilla is decreased by proper generation of an entangled state for the ancilla selected to reduce errors. This approach is described, for example, in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/651,317, filed Aug. 28, 2003, entitled \u201cTechniques For High Fidelity Quantum Teleportation And Computing,\u201d by James D. Franson, Michelle Donegan, Michael Fitch, Bryan C. Jacobs and Todd B. Pittman, (hereinafter referenced as \u201c\u201d).","While representing advances over prior techniques, the recent approaches still sometimes use a large number of ancilla and therefore suffer to some degree from the complexity introduced to generate and manipulate those ancilla. Also, these recent approaches are sometimes also subject to errors in the detectors used to detect the ancilla photons during a post selection step.","Based on the foregoing description, there is a clear need for techniques that reduce the complexity of quantum logic operations on qubits represented by single photons, which techniques do not suffer the deficiencies of current approaches. In particular, there is a clear need for techniques that reduce the reliance on ancilla while performing quantum information processing.","The approaches described in this section could be pursued, but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in this section are not to be considered prior art to the claims in this application merely due to the presence of these approaches in this background section.","Techniques are provided that use the quantum Zeno effect to implement practical devices that use single photons as the qubits for quantum information processing. In the quantum Zeno effect, a randomly-occurring event can be suppressed by frequent operations akin to measurements to determine whether or not the event has occurred. No actual observations are required; the same results can be obtained by using atoms or molecules to react to the occurrence of the event. Devices implemented using the quantum Zeno effect can operate with low error rates without the need for high efficiency detectors and large number of ancilla.","According to one aspect of the invention, a method for quantum information processing includes directing one or more input qubits onto a device and applying a quantum Zeno effect in the device. Each qubit is represented by a superposition state of a single photon. The quantum Zeno effect is applied by consuming one or more photons in the device (such as by absorbing a photon, causing a non-linear phase shift in the photon, or measuring the photon) under conditions in which one or more output photons, that would otherwise be output by the device, do not represent a result of a particular quantum information processing operation on the one or more input qubits.","In an embodiment of this aspect, at least two qubits are directed onto the device, and the particular quantum information processing operation includes a square root of a SWAP operation. In some such embodiments, the one or more photons are consumed by absorbing a pair of substantively coincident photons in one spatial mode through the device without absorbing a solo photon in the same spatial mode.","In another aspect of the invention, a device for quantum information processing using a superposition state of a single photon to represent a qubit includes an input port, an output port, and a Zeno effect component. The input port receives one or more input qubits; and the output port sends one or more output qubits. The Zeno effect component is positioned between the input and output ports. The Zeno effect component applies a quantum Zeno effect by consuming one or more photons under conditions in which photons on the output port would otherwise not represent a result of a particular quantum information processing operation on the one or more input qubits.","In another aspect of the invention, a method of fabricating a Zeno effect component for quantum information processing includes forming a pair of wave guides and disposing a plurality of absorbing units in each wave guide. A superposition state of a single photon having a particular energy represents each qubit. The pair of wave guides are separated by a sufficiently small separation distance for a particular distance in a direction of propagation such that a SWAP operation would occur in twice the particular distance for a single test photon having the particular energy. Each absorbing unit includes an atom, a molecule, an ion, or some combination, that has an excited state which is matched to twice the particular energy and which state is not matched to the particular energy.","A method and apparatus are described for quantum information processing using the quantum Zeno effect. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","102","100","104","104","104","100","100"],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},"The qubit input ports  and output ports  are connected by one or more optical components , including at least one Zeno effect component . The optical components  direct one or more photons to the Zeno effect component  in response to receiving one or more photons at the qubit input ports . The optical components  also direct one or more photons from the Zeno effect component  to the qubit output ports .","The Zeno effect component  applies the quantum Zeno effect to effectively make measurements to determine whether one or more modes of failure for the device  has occurred. By making measurements to determine whether a failure mode has occurred in component , the Zeno effect reduces the chances of that failure occurring. Consequently, the device  is more likely to produce the desired quantum information processing result. The Zeno effect has previously been proposed as a way to perform quantum error correction on output from quantum logic gates, but not to construct the logic gates themselves, as described here.","As stated above, in the quantum Zeno effect, a randomly-occurring event (such as a failure mode of device ) can be suppressed by frequent operations akin to measurements to determine whether or not the event has occurred. No actual observations are required; therefore the effectiveness of the Zeno effect does not depend on detector efficiency. The same results can be obtained by using atoms or molecules or ions or some combination to react to the occurrence of the event. Devices implemented using the quantum Zeno effect can operate with low error rates without the need for high efficiency detectors or large number of ancilla or a combination of the two.","In the following description, embodiments of the invention are described in the context of a gate that performs a square root SWAP operation on two input qubits, but the invention is not limited to this context. Embodiments of the invention may also be used in gates that perform single qubit operations, and other two qubit operations, such as the controlled NOT (CNOT) operation well known in the art, and other multiple qubit operations, such as the controlled CNOT (CCNOT) operation, also well known in the art.","The most general quantum computation can be performed using single-qubit logic gates, which can be easily implemented in an optical approach, combined with a suitable two-qubit gate, such as the CNOT. A useful two-qubit gate that can be used as a building block for other quantum processing gates, including the CNOT gate, is a square root SWAP gate. The square root SWAP is often designated by the symbol \u221a{square root over (SWAP)}.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["212","202","202","202","202","202","212","204","204","204","204","204"],"i":["a","b ","a","b","a","b ","b ","a. "]},"The \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate is defined as giving the SWAP operation when applied twice (i.e., \u201csquared\u201d), as illustrated in  by two \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gates , connected in series. That is, the output qubits from gate on optical paths , are sent as input to \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate . The \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} is a purely quantum-mechanical operation and its implementation is nontrivial. Even for the case in which the logical values on input ports  are known, the logical values on the two optical paths , are unknown. The \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} allows any quantum computation to be performed when combined with single-qubit operations, for example, the \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate can be used to implement the more familiar controlled-NOT gate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["222","222","222","226","224","222","222","230","227","230","50","50"],"i":["a","b ","b ","a"],"sub":"1\/2"},"It can be shown that the coupled-fiber \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate  of  does implement a \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} operation correctly if a total of 0 or 1 photons are input to the device on optical fiber cores , . Incorrect results are obtained, however, if a photon is present in both of the input ports, which corresponds to a logical input of 1 for both qubits. In that case, there is some probability that both photons will exit the device in the same fiber core, which corresponds to a failure mode, since only 0 or 1 photons represents a valid logical output. In fact, quantum interference effects ensure that both photons will always exit such a \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate  in the same fiber core, which is equivalent to the well-known Hong-Ou-Mandel dip in coincidence measurements using free-space beam splitters (see, for example, C. K. Hong, Z. Y. Ou, and L. Mandel, \u201cMeasurement of subpicosecond time intervals between two photons by interference,\u201d 59, p2044, 1987).","According to illustrated embodiments of the invention, the quantum Zeno effect is used to inhibit the production of these kinds of failure modes (rather than to correct errors after they are produced). The action of the Zeno effect is akin to the notion that \u201ca watched pot never boils,\u201d which actually has an element of truth in quantum mechanics. On the human scale, the notion is merely an exaggeration of a perception.","The following descriptions based on theory are provided to help explain the quantum Zeno effect; however, the invention is not limited by the theory presented in the following descriptions. For purposes of illustration, it is assumed that N equally-spaced measurements are performed to determine whether or not two photons are present in the same fiber core at overlapping times (i.e., to determine whether there are two coincident photons). The N measurements are performed during a time interval \u0394t=L\/c in which the photons interact, where c is the speed of light. It is also assumed that the measurement process has no effect on the device unless two photons are found to be present in the same fiber core.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2B"],"b":["300","230","304","320"],"sub":["E ","E","E "]},"The quantum interference effects responsible for the Hong-Ou-Mandel dip and the value of P=1 in the absence of the Zeno effect (left-most point on graph ) are due to the fact that photons are bosons. Electrons or other fermions would give just the opposite result, with both particles always exiting from different output ports. This difference in behavior can be traced to the fact that the exchange of two identical fermions multiplies the state vector by a factor of \u22121, whereas the exchange of two bosons gives a factor of +1, which converts an interference maximum to a minimum. It can be seen from  that the properties of the photons, at least as far as these interference effects are concerned, gradually change from that of a boson to that of a fermion as the strength of the Zeno effect is increased. A strong Zeno effect clearly prevents coincident photons, which is a fundamental property of fermions (as expressed in the well known Pauli exclusion principle).","As is usually the case in the quantum Zeno effect, it is not necessary to make any actual observations or measurements as described above. Instead, it suffices to introduce an interaction between the system of interest and some other system whose properties could, in principle, be measured at some later time in order to obtain the same information. One or more photons are \u201cconsumed\u201d in such interactions by such virtual measurements in principle.","In another illustrated embodiment, the interaction with another system is accomplished by introducing one or more atoms into the fiber cores in such a way that the atoms can absorb two photons but not just one. In other embodiments other absorbing units are used, such as molecules, ions, and combinations of atoms and molecules and ions, or other interacting systems are used. For purposes of illustration, it is assumed that the quantum states corresponding to two photons in the same fiber core would undergo two-photon absorption at a rate of 1\/\u03c4, where \u03c4is the corresponding decay time. The results of a density-matrix calculation of this kind are illustrated by the solid curve in . In order to allow both sets of calculations to be plotted on the same scale, the parameter N is defined in this case as N=\u0394t\/4\u03c4. It can be seen that strong two-photon absorption can also suppress the coincident photons, thereby preventing failure modes of that kind.","Nonlinear effects such as two-photon absorption are commonly assumed to be small at single-photon intensities. According to some embodiments, however, the photons are confined inside the core of an optical fiber and two-photon absorption is substantial. An illustrated embodiment with a vapor of absorbing atoms in a hollow core optical fiber is described in more detail below. In other embodiments a solid core is suitably doped with atoms or molecules of an appropriately absorbing material.","In still other embodiments, the Zeno effect can be applied in quantum logic gates using a high-finesse cavity and nonlinear phase shifts rather than nonlinear absorption (see, for example, Q. A. Turchette, C. J. Hood, W. Lange, H. Mabuchi, and J. H. Kimble, ., vol 75, p 4710, 1995). But nonlinear absorption is much easier to achieve than nonlinear phase shifts because nonlinear absorption allows operation on or near resonance, whereas nonlinear phase shifts require large detunings in order to avoid unwanted absorption. In addition, a nonlinear phase shift will vary over the length of a wave packet due to the variation in intensity, which will produce errors that are difficult to avoid. The nonlinear absorption described here is relatively large even at single-photon intensities due to a combination of effects, including the small diameter of the optical fiber cores, the relatively long length of the medium, and the ability to tune on or close to resonance, as described in more detail in the following.","For purposes of illustration, it is assumed that a hollow optical fiber contains a suitable atomic vapor.  is block diagram that illustrates a cross section of a dual optical fiber , such as may be used for both fiber cores  in the square root SWAP device  of . The optical fiber  includes two cores  inside a common cladding . The difference in index of refraction between the cladding  and core  is chosen to cause the fiber to perform as a waveguide for the photons serving as qubits. In the illustrated embodiment, the cores  are hollow cores.","The absorption of a resonant photon by an atom can be described by a cross-sectional area that is comparable to the area of an optical fiber core (see, for example, L. Mandel and E. Wolf, , Cambridge U. Press, Cambridge, 1995). A single photon will then be absorbed by a single atom in the fiber core with a probability that is on the order of unity. Once one photon has been absorbed, the atom will be left in an excited state with a similar cross-section, so that a second photon can then be absorbed with a probability that is also on the order of unity. Although a number of refinements are required to this simple picture, as described in more detail below, it does suggest that two-photon absorption can occur at a relatively high rate in optical fibers under the right conditions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B"],"b":["222","450","222","460","462","222","460","222","460"]},"Practical applications depend on the achievable two-photon absorption rate. The following results from an analysis of the two-photon absorption rates show that useful rates are achievable in hollow optical fibers. The details of the calculations themselves are lengthy and are not necessary to make and use the invention. Practical issues associated with the implementation of Zeno gates in dual-core optical fibers are included.","As illustrated in , the cross-section  for the resonant absorption of a photon can be comparable to the area A of an optical fiber core  for appropriate selection of absorbing unit (such as an atom, ion or molecule) and photon energy (which is proportional to photon wavenumber k and inversely proportional to photon wavelength \u03bb). It is assumed for purposes of illustration that the absorbing unit is an atom. In the absence of collisions and Doppler shifts, the scattering cross-section \u03c3is given by Equation 1: \n\n\nwhere \u03bb is the wavelength of the light. The fiber core is selected to also have a cross sectional area on the order of \u03bb. Therefore, the probability that a single photon will be absorbed by a single atom in the fiber core is \u03c3\/A\u02dc1. For purposes of illustration, it is assumed that the energy of the photon is selected to match that of the excited atomic state, i.e. to equal the energy change between two quantum levels for the electrons in the atom. Once one photon has been absorbed, the atom will be left in an excited state with a similar cross-section, so that a second photon can then be absorbed with a probability that is also on the order of unity. This simple picture must be modified in several respects, however, as described below.\n","In order for Equation 1 to be valid, the frequency bandwidth of the photons must be less than that of the excited atomic state, which requires the length Lof the photon wave packets to be greater than c\u03c4, where \u03c4is the lifetime of the relevant excited atomic state.","In order to avoid the absorption of single photons, the energy of the photons can be chosen to differ by an amount \u03b4from the energy of the first excited atomic state. In that case, the absorption of two photons conserves energy while the absorption of one photon does not (absorption of one photon is a \u201cvirtual process\u201d that is only conceptually allowed as a temporary intermediate step between allowed initial and final states, e.g., between an atom at energy level  and an atom at energy level ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A"],"b":["511","512","513","1","3","520","520","520","520","1","2"],"i":["a","a","a","b","c","d "]},"As is illustrated in , a single photon is not absorbed by the atom because the energy change provided by one photon does not match the energy level of the atomic energy state . Absorption of one photon only reaches energy level , indicated by the horizontal dashed line segment. Energy level differs from the atomic energy state , by the amount \u03b4mentioned above. Single-photon absorption is eliminated by selecting the energy of level  to exceed the energy level by the amount \u03b4. In this case only two-photon absorption satisfies energy conservation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["1","2","1","2"]},"The absorption of the two qubit photons, or the reemission of photons with wavenumbers k or k, is equivalent to a measurement that two coincident photons are present in the optical fiber core . According to the Zeno effect, such a measurement actually inhibits the occurrence of two coincident photons in the optical fiber core .","For a more complete understanding, the effects of collisions and the Doppler shift of the atoms should also be taken into account. Including all of these factors, the rate Rof absorption of a two-photon state can be described approximately with Equation 2: \n\n","Here \u03c4is the natural lifetime of atomic level , Nis the number of atoms in a length L=C\u03c4of optical fiber, and the factors f, f, and ftake into account the effects of detuning, atomic collisions, and the length of the wave packets. Two-photon absorption is well understood; see, for example, R. W. Boyd, 2, Academic Press, New York, 2003, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Equation 2 simply casts Rin a form that is useful for optical fiber applications. To achieve a useful Zeno effect, it is desirable to obtain a value on the order of 1 for the rate R.","Detuning the photons from the energy of atomic level  reduces Rby the factor f, which is given by Equation 3: \n\n\nwhere Mis a matrix element for a transition from atomic level  to  accompanied by the absorption of a photon. Although this factor is relatively small, it can be offset by the large value of Nif we choose the number of atoms to be given by N=1\/f. A large value of Nis also desirable because the atomic density will become nearly uniform, and a perfectly uniform medium does not scatter any non-resonant photons.\n","The factor frepresents the fact that collisions will increase the linewidth of the atomic transition and thereby reduce the rate of transitions on resonance. It is given approximately by Equation 4:\n\n=\u03c4\/\u03c4\u2003\u2003(4)\n\nwhere \u03c4is the decoherence time due to collisions. This factor can range from 0.1 to 0.01 for typical atomic vapor transitions.\n","The factor freflects the fact that nonlinear absorption is proportional to the square of the field intensity, which increases as Lis decreased and the electromagnetic energy of a photon is concentrated into a smaller volume. This factor is given approximately by Equation 5:\n\n\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nThe increased atomic line width due to collisions allows the length of the photon wave packets to be reduced to L\u02dcc\u03c4, in which case the product ff\u02dc1.\n","For an optical fiber with a diameter of 0.78\u03bb, the factor \u03c3\/A in Equation 2 is also equal to unity. Although commercially-available optical fibers have diameters that are somewhat larger than this, there is no fundamental reason why fibers with smaller cores cannot be manufactured and operated in a single mode. For example, see B. E. A. Saleh and M. C. Teich, , Wiley, New York, 1991, p. 282, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. All of the factors in Equation 2 then cancel out and the net two-photon absorption rate is simply R\u02dc1\/\u03c4, which corresponds to a two-photon absorption length l(1\/e distance) of l\u02dcc\u03c4. Typical values of lfrom this approach are expected to be on the order of 5 meters.","It may be possible to greatly reduce the absorption length below 5 meters using other mechanisms for two-photon absorption, such as the process illustrated in  in which the excited atom re-emits two photons with wavenumbers k and k that can differ from the initial wave vector.","If the error probability per gate operation is required to be less than some value \u03b5, then the results illustrated in  require that the \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gates have a length L>l\/\u03b5. To build devices of this kind the effects of dispersion and scattering over the required length of optical fiber should be minimized.","In most atomic systems, the matrix element Mfrom level  to level 3 is substantially smaller than the matrix element Mfrom level  to level . As a result, it may be advantageous to use a strong laser beam to eliminate the need for level .  is an energy diagram that illustrates the energy states of an absorbing atom for applying the Zeno effect by absorbing coincident photons but not single photons, according to another embodiment using lasers and only two atomic energy states. The atomic energy states , represent atomic energy levels  and , respectively, and may be the same or different from the atomic energy states , illustrated in . The photon energies , , are represented by arrows, the height of each arrow is proportional to the photon energy of the corresponding photon, which is proportional to the photon wavenumber. As in , k designates the wavenumber of the photons that represent qubits. Here, kL represents the wavenumber of photons emitted by the atom in response to stimulation by a high intensity laser beam of photons with wavenumber kL. Photon energy represents the energy of the photon with wavenumber kL. Energy is conserved by the absorption of two qubit photons with wavenumber k and the emission of a laser photon of wavenumber kL, leaving the atom in the final atomic energy state ","As is illustrated in , a single photon is not absorbed by the atom because the energy change provided by one photon does not match the energy level of the atomic energy state . Absorption of one photon only reaches energy level , indicated by the horizontal dashed line segment. Energy level differs from the atomic energy state . Single-photon absorption is eliminated by selecting the energy of level  to exceed the energy of the photon with wavenumber k.","From virtual energy level , the atom can emit a laser photon to put it at virtual energy level , where it can absorb a second qubit photon to reach the stable atomic energy state . In this case two-photon absorption satisfies energy conservation while solo photon absorption does not.","The density of atoms can be increased slightly to compensate for the small reduction in the matrix elements of the first transition, while retaining nearly the full value of Mfor the second transition. As can be shown, this effectively allows \u03c4to be replaced with the lifetime \u03c4of level .","As mentioned above, the atomic density can be adjusted to compensate the detuning \u03b4of the first atomic transition by satisfying Equation 6: \n\n\nThis can be shown to be equivalent to requiring that the atomic vapor produce a change \u03b4n in the index of refraction of \u03b4n \u02dc\u03b4\/\u03c9, where  is Planck's constant and \u03c9is the optical frequency of photons with wavenumber k. Imposing the condition of Equation 6 eliminates N, M, and \u03b4from the final expression for the two-photon absorption length l. This value of Nis roughly the optimal value, since a single photon will have a probability of about 50% of being absorbed in a virtual atomic state (a \u201cdressed state\u201d), and larger values of Nare expected to be less effective.\n","A large value of Nis also desirable because the atomic density will become nearly uniform over the dimensions of a wavelength, and a perfectly uniform medium does not scatter any non-resonant photons. As an example, commercial optical fibers can transmit light over many kilometers with very little scattering, even though the interaction between the photons and the atoms in the core produces a phase shift of roughly 10radians per kilometer. A similar situation is expected here: in the limit of large \u03b4and N, the losses due to single-photon scattering are expected to be relatively small. Fiber imperfections and impurities may still produce a significant amount of scattering, however.","Some applications of Zeno gates involve the production of special purpose dual-core optical fiber and appropriate coupling techniques. Conventional optical fibers require the index of refraction of the core to be higher than that of the cladding. For hollow-core fibers, this could be accomplished using the index of refraction created by the atomic vapor. Alternatively, hollow-core fibers based on photonic bandgap structures in the cladding are commercially available for wavelengths in the infrared. Another option is to replace the hollow core and atomic vapor with a conventional solid core doped with a suitable impurity, such as erbium.","The above estimates indicate that Zeno gates could be implemented using relatively short lengths of dual core fiber.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5B"],"b":["600","600","622","622","622","600","102","104","610","630","640","622","2","227","622","224","2","640"],"i":["a","b "]},"The optical coupler  couples the input qubit on port into the core of the optical fiber, couples the input qubit on port into the core of the optical fiber, and couples laser photons from laser  into both cores  of the optical fiber. Any optical elements known in the art may be used in optical coupler , including but not limited to lenses, mirrors, beam splitters, optical fibers, and phase shifters.","The optical coupler  couples the qubit in the core of the optical fiber to output qubit on port , couples the qubit in the core of the optical fiber to output qubit port , and filters out laser photons from laser  in both cores  of the optical fiber. Any optical elements known in the art may be used in optical coupler , including but not limited to lenses, mirror, beam splitters, optical fibers, and phase shifters.","In some embodiments, the laser  is external to the gate , and the square root SWAP gate includes, instead, a port for receiving laser photons generated by the external laser into optical coupler . In summary, the quantum Zeno effect is used to implement a new kind of quantum logic gate for qubits represented by single photons. No actual measurements are required and two-photon absorption in dual-core optical fibers, for example, suffice for the construction of a \u221a{square root over (SWAP)} gate. An optical gate of this kind has a number of practical advantages in quantum information processing, including the ability to connect logic and memory devices using optical fibers, the reduction of complexity associated with large number of ancilla, and the elimination of the need for multiple highly reliable single photon detectors.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 2B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
