---
title: Game console communication with a device
abstract: Communication between a game console having a communication port and a portable device is facilitated by determining that a portable device has been directly connected to the communication port, determining the protocol associated with the portable device, and communicating with the portable device using a driver associated with the determined protocol. An ancillary application may handle the communication between the game console and the portable device while a game or entertainment application executes concurrently on the game console. The game application may execute in a reserved predetermined amount of hardware resources of the game console while the ancillary application may execute concurrently using the remaining hardware resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07991890&OS=07991890&RS=07991890
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07991890
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention generally relates to the field of game consoles. In particular, the invention relates to communication between a game console and a multimedia device, as well as other devices.","Traditionally, game consoles were standalone systems that accommodated a limited number of players, such as 1-4 players, that remain local to the game console. A recent trend in game consoles is to provide capabilities to facilitate gaming among multiple players over a network, such as Internet-based online gaming. These online game consoles allow players to compete with other players, regardless of their geographic location. Beyond the limited trend towards online gaming, game consoles have been provided with little connectivity to other devices.","The following is a summary to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended as an extensive overview of the invention, nor is it intended to identify key elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some aspects of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description presented below","Communication between a game console having a communication port and a portable device is facilitated by determining that a portable device has been directly connected to the communication port, determining the protocol associated with the portable device, and communicating with the portable device in accordance with the determined protocol. An ancillary application may handle the communication between the game console and the portable device while a game or other entertainment application executes concurrently on the game console. The game application may execute in a reserved predetermined amount of hardware resources of the game console while the ancillary application may execute concurrently using the remaining hardware resources. The communication port may be a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port.","The ancillary application may communicate with the portable device in accordance with various protocols or standards, such as, for example, Media Transfer Protocol (MTP), USB Mass Storage Specification, Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP), HID driver protocol, Firewire protocol, a proprietary protocol, a variation of the mentioned protocols, and the like. The ancillary application may communicate with the portable device via a driver associated with the protocol of the portable device. To save memory, the driver may not support the full set of protocol features but instead may support only a subset of the protocol features.","The ancillary application may implement various application. For example, the ancillary application may allow the game console user to store and retrieve game application configuration settings and game controller configuration settings to and from the portable device. In this manner, a user may store a saved game, a \u201cleft-handed\u201d controller configuration, and the like to the portable device for possible uploading to another game controller at a different location. The ancillary application may also allow the game console user to store and retrieve multimedia files to and from the portable device. In this manner, a user may connect their MP3 or WMA player, digital camera, or other portable multimedia device to the game console and play the multimedia files via the game console. Further, the ancillary application may allow the game console user to easily configure their wireless home network by executing a wireless network configuration wizard and storing the wireless network configuration information to a Universal Serial Bus flash configuration device, or the like.","Additional features of the invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","101","102","104","106","102","104","106","100"]},"A graphics processing unit (GPU)  and a video encoder\/video codec (coder\/decoder)  form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit  to the video encoder\/video codec  via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to an A\/V (audio\/video) port  for transmission to a user interface, such as, for example, a television or other display. A memory controller  is connected to the GPU  and CPU  to facilitate processor access to various types of memory , such as, but not limited to, a RAM (Random Access Memory).","The game console  includes an I\/O controller , a system management controller , an audio processing unit , a network interface controller , a first Universal Serial Bus (USB) host controller , a second USB controller  and a front panel I\/O subassembly  that are preferably implemented on a module . While two USB controllers  and  are shown in , there may be three, four (such as shown in ), or any number of USB controllers. USB controllers  and  may be used to communicate with a variety of devices, including portable multimedia devices, and the like, as described in more detail below. USB controllers  and  include USB ports for connection to a variety of USB compatible multimedia devices.","The network interface controller  provides access to a network (e.g., the Internet, home network, and the like) and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card, a modem, a Bluetooth module, a cable modem, and the like.","Game console  may communicate with game controller  via USB controller , as shown in . Game controller  typically functions as an input device to game console  whereby a user may input information into game console  via the game controller  while \u201cplaying\u201d a game application. Game controller  may include a gamepad, buttons, and the like.","System memory  stores application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive  is provided and may comprise a DVD\/CD drive, hard drive, or other removable media drive, and the like. Application data may be accessed via the media drive  for execution, playback, etc. by the game console . The media drive  is connected to the I\/O controller  via a bus, such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection (e.g., IEEE 1394).","The system management controller  provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of the game console . The audio processing unit  and an audio codec  form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit  and the audio codec  via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to the A\/V port  for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.","The front panel I\/O subassembly  supports the functionality of the power button  and the eject button , as well as any LEDs (light emitting diodes) or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the game console . A system power supply module  provides power to the components of the game console . A fan  cools the circuitry within the game console .","The CPU , GPU , memory controller , and various other components within the game console  are interconnected via one or more buses, including serial and parallel buses, a memory bus, a peripheral bus, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.","When the game console  is powered on or rebooted, application data may be loaded from the system memory  into memory  and\/or caches ,  and executed on the CPU . The application may present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the game console . In operation, game applications and\/or other media contained within the media drive  may be launched or played from the media drive .","The game console  may be operated as a standalone system by connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode, the game console  allows one or more local users to interact with the system and play game applications. However, with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface  or the wireless adapter , the game console  may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community.","Because of the high processing demand of gaming applications, game console  typically dedicates a large percentage of processing time and resources to the gaming application and distributes the remaining processing time and resources to other applications, such as servicing devices connected to USB controllers , , and the like.","Game console  (or any other multimedia console that dedicates a percentage of processing time and resources to a multimedia application) may allow a game application to retain substantial control over the hardware resources of the game console , so that game developers can rely on having a certain amount of processing time and resources. For example, game console  may reserve a predetermined amount of game console hardware resources for game applications while the remainder of hardware resources are controlled by other applications (such as communicating with multimedia devices connected to the game console ). In this manner, the game application retains substantial control over hardware resources, unlike applications executing in conventional personal computing (PC) operating systems which have little control over hardware resources. As such, game applications do not need to directly support ancillary functionalities. Instead, such ancillary functionalities may be implemented in the remaining (non-dedicated) hardware resources of game console .","In order to present a consistent, unchanging resource usage signature for the game applications, a number of different game console resources may be managed. These various resources may include the CPU , cache memory , , main memory , audio channels, game controller input, and the like. For example, an operating system kernel of the game console  may reserve resources for game applications. The operating system kernel may reserve a predetermined amount of memory for game applications and typically does not make this reserved memory available to the other applications. The kernel, drivers, and any other game-related code, including the game application, may reside in this reserved memory. If the game application requires less than the full amount of available dedicated memory, the kernel typically still allocates and reserves the predetermined amount of memory so that the game application sees a consistent amount of available memory. In particular, the memory reservation may be large enough to contain the launch kernel, game application, and drivers. Typically, this reservation allows enough remaining resources for new ancillary applications and drivers over the life of the game console , as well as any anticipated expansion in the size of the ancillary applications and driver footprint. Alternatively, game console  may reserve resources for the ancillary application or for both the game application and the ancillary application.","Further, the operating system kernel may reserve a second predetermined amount of memory for use in communication between the game application and the ancillary applications. Such communication may occur, for example, when an ancillary application receives a user request that should cause some action to occur in the game application. For example, if an ancillary application receives a request to display a digital picture, this should typically cause the game application to pause. This second predetermined amount of memory can be used to transmit information to the game application, causing the game application to pause.","The operating system kernel may also reserve a predefined number of audio channels (monophonic streams) for use by ancillary applications (e.g., ten audio channels may be reserved out of roughly  available channels in a typical game console ).","The operating system kernel loads drivers that may include a GPU driver that sets up an interrupt. The interrupt may be a GPU interrupt, such as, for example, a programmable scan line interrupt that generates an interrupt when the video output reaches a predetermined scan line on the video display or may be another suitable interrupt source. The GPU interrupt may be used to keep in synch with the GPU video frame and ancillary applications may be scheduled in response to a scan line interrupt from the GPU.","Game console  may also include an MP3 decoder, a WMA decoder, and the like for decoding audio (e.g., music) files or other files. The operating system kernel may load decoders and the like into memory or the decoders may be loaded into memory when appropriate. In this manner, game console  can provide for playing music without some intermediary device, such as a personal computer. That is, as described in more detail below, an MP3 player may be directly connected to game console  and the music can be played via the game console .","In a multiprocessor game console, the reservation of CPU time (e.g., implemented via interrupts or other techniques) may be distributed among the CPUs in various fashions. For example, the game application may be executed on a first CPU (and may also be executed on the other CPUs) with no ancillary applications being executed on the first CPU. Ancillary applications may be scheduled at times on the other CPUs. Ancillary applications may be scheduled for X % of CPU processing time on a second CPU and Y % of CPU processing time on a third CPU. Further, the X % and Y % of processing time may be scheduled at the end of processing a video frame. The X % and Y % of processing time may be equal (i.e., symmetric) or non-equal (i.e., asymmetric). Further, the determinations of the X % and Y % of processing time may be based on design requirements for ancillary applications.","Both the game application and the ancillary application may expect to receive user input, however, conventional game applications have complete control over user input (e.g., via game controller , \u201cgamepad\u201d input). Game console , however, appropriately manages or shares the user input (e.g., game controller  input) between the game application and the ancillary applications. Typically, game applications are not aware of when they lose user input focus from the game controller  to an ancillary application or when it is restored back to the game application. Therefore, gamepad state (e.g., what game controller  buttons are pressed) is maintained when user input focus is switched between the game application and the ancillary application. Further, the state set on the gamepad in the game application, while the game application does not have the input focus, may be queued and maintained until the user input focus is returned to the game application. For example, if the game application sets a gamepad vibration state (e.g., a state in which a vibration generating motor runs in the gamepad to cause the gamepad itself to vibrate) while the ancillary application has the user input focus, this vibration state is queued (and updated) to be consistent when the user input focus is restored to the game application. The input devices are not reserved resources, but are switched between the game application and the ancillary application such that each will have the appropriate focus of the device. An application manager may control the switching of input stream, without the game application's knowledge, and a driver may maintain state information regarding focus switches. Other types of user interaction are possible, such as pausing the game application when the user interacts with an ancillary application, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","100","126","128","226","228","126","210","128","220","226","230","228","240","100","100"]},"Portable media device  may be any portable media device compatible with the communication ports of game console  (i.e., USB controller ) including, for example, smart portable phone A, digital camera B, video camera C (which may be Firewire compatible), personal digital assistant (PDA) D, audio player E (which may be a MP3 player, a player compatible with WMA files, etc.), and the like, as shown in ","Networking device  may be any networking device compatible with the communication ports of game console  (i.e., USB controller ) including, for example, USB cable modem A, USB wireless adaptor B, wireless flash configuration device C, and the like, as shown in ","Portable storage device  may be any portable storage device compatible with the communication ports of game console  (i.e., USB controller ) including, for example, USB memory device A, and the like, as shown in ","Communication device  may be any communication device compatible with the communication ports of game console  (i.e., USB controller ) including, for example, web camera A, keyboard B, mouse C, and the like, as shown in ","The variety of portable devices available for connection to a USB port may communicate in accordance with a variety of protocols or standards. For example, portable devices may communicate in accordance with Media Transfer Protocol (MTP), Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP), a protocol consistent with the USB Mass Storage Specification, HID driver protocol, Firewire protocol, a proprietary protocol, and the like. Game console  may support many protocols, a single protocol, or any combination of protocols. For example, game console  may support only the MTP protocol. Alternatively, game console  may support the MTP protocol, the PTP protocol, and the HID driver protocol, but not support any proprietary protocols. Further, game console  may support multiple proprietary protocols so that many devices using various proprietary protocols may communicate with game console .","Game console  may provide support for particular protocols by implementing a driver (consistent with the particular protocol) that is used to communicate between the game console  (e.g., an ancillary application of game console ) and a portable device connected to a USB port of game console . The drivers are typically associated with only a single protocol, however, the drivers may be associated multiple protocols (and thus be able to communicate in accordance with multiple protocols). The drivers may be stored in system memory , in ROM , in media drive , or the like.","A driver may support only a portion of a particular protocol in order to conserve memory consumption in game console . For example, if a particular protocol includes a reference to logging functionality, the driver may not include the functionality to support logging. Thus, the driver may support only a subset of a particular protocol's features. The unsupported functions are typically features or functions that are typically not critical.","The MTP protocol driver (as well as the other protocol drivers) may be implemented in three portions. The lowest third portion of the driver being an abstraction of the bus, the middle portion being the implementation of basic MTP logic, and the top portion being an Application Programming Interface (API) that allows for the use of MTP logic. The MTP protocol driver (as well as other protocol drivers) may be optimized by not including all of the functionality of the MTP protocol, as described above. For example, the MTP protocol driver may not support driver-level caching, logging capabilities, and the like. This reduces the size of the driver, thereby allowing the MTP protocol driver to fit more comfortably into the memory reserved for non-gaming or ancillary applications or allowing additional drivers to be loaded into the memory reserved for non-gaming or ancillary applications. In this manner, game console  may support communication with more types of portable devices.","Game console  may load drivers associated with the supported protocols upon startup or power-up of game console . Alternatively, game console  may load the appropriate driver when a portable device associated with that driver is connected to one of the USB controllers of game console .","Turning now to , it shows an illustrative method  for game console  to communicate with portable media device  or portable storage device . As shown in , at step , game console  detects that portable media device  or portable storage device  has been connected to USB controller  of game console . The detection of portable device connection may include any conventional technique for detecting that a device has been connected to a communication controller, such as, for example, the Plug and Play peripheral model and the like. Detection of portable device connection may cause the launching of an ancillary application or multiple ancillary applications for communicating with the portable device. Each ancillary application may implement a single or multiple steps of , directly or via a driver. A first ancillary application (or multiple ancillary applications) may handle the detection of the connection of the portable device, and in turn launch other ancillary applications for communicating with the portable device. The ancillary applications may interface with a driver (which may be launched on startup or later at step ) for communicating with the portable device.","At step , game console  determines the protocol associated with the connected portable media device  or portable storage device  (and may also determine the type of portable device). For example, game console  may determine that the portable media device  that has been connected to USB controller  communicates via the MTP protocol, the PTP protocol, or the like. Alternatively, game console  may determine that the portable storage device  that has been connected to USB controller  communicates in accordance with the USB Mass Storage Specification, a variation of the USB Mass Storage Specification, or the like. Game console  may also determine that portable media device  or portable storage device  communicates via some proprietary protocol. The proprietary protocols may be device specific, may be manufacturer specific, or the like.","At step , game console  uses the driver associated with the protocol determined at step  to communicate with portable media device  or portable storage device  and to determine the media (e.g., files, and the like) on the portable media device  or portable storage device . For example, game console  may communicate with digital camera B via the PTP protocol and determine that digital camera B is storing ten digital photographs in the Joint Photographic Expert Group (JPEG) format (i.e., ten JPEG files). Game console  may communicate with USB memory device A in accordance with the USB Mass Storage Specification and determine that USB memory device A is storing ten digital photographs in the JPEG format (i.e., ten JPEG files).","At optional step , game console  may determine the digital rights associated with the media files determined at step . For example, game console  may determine that there are no digital rights associated with the ten JPEG files stored on digital camera B or stored on USB memory device A. In such a case, game console  may proceed directly to step . Alternatively, game console  may determine that there are some digital rights associated with the media stored on portable media device  or portable storage device . In such a case, game console  may not proceed directly to step , but may instead end any processing associated with portable media device  or portable storage device , may allow the user to only view metadata associated with the media files (e.g., the names of the media files), may allow the user to access (\u201cplay\u201d) the media files but not forward or copy the media files, and the like.","At step , game console  displays a list of the media files stored on portable media device  or portable storage device  on the user interface associated with game console  (e.g., on a television via A\/V port ). For example, game console  may display a list of the names of the ten JPEG files found on digital camera B or USB memory device A. Game console  may start an ancillary application that interfaces with the user and determines how the user wishes to interact with the media files. The ancillary application typically runs within the processing time left over from the processing time dedicated to the gaming application. If, however, no gaming application is executing, the ancillary application may be the only application running, and thus may not be restricted in its execution. In such a case, upon execution of a gaming application, the ancillary application may be stopped and the gaming application may then execute using its normally dedicated resources.","At step , the ancillary application (e.g., via game controller  or other input device), receives a selection from a user for a particular media file stored on portable media device  or portable storage device . For example, using game controller , a user may input and game console  may receive a selection of the first of the ten JPEG files on digital camera B. Further, using game controller , the user may input and game console  may receive a selection to display each of the ten JPEG files on digital camera B consecutively as a slide show.","At step , game console  plays the selected media file or files. Game console  may convert the selected media file from its existing format (e.g., JPEG format) into an appropriate format for display via the audio\/visual port . For example, game console  (via the ancillary application) may convert the first of the ten JPEG files on digital camera B into an appropriate format (e.g., for display via audio\/visual port ) and then display the media associated with the media file onto a display device (e.g., a television via the A\/V port ). Game console  may play the selected media file by first copying the file to memory  or media drive  and then playing the media file from memory  or media drive . Alternatively, game console  may play the selected media file by streaming the media file from the portable device to the game console .","Game console  may execute steps  through  while the game application is executing. In such a case, steps  through  are typically executed within the processing time and resources that are not dedicated to the gaming application. Further, if steps  through  are being executed while the game application is executing, game console  may, at step  indicate in a non-obtrusive way that game console  has detected the connection of a particular USB compatible device and may interact with game controller  to receive further processing instructions. For example, game console  may display a small icon on the screen to notify the user that game console  has detected that a USB compatible device has been connected to the USB controller  or . The game console  may wait for input from game controller  before proceeding to display the list of media files at step . Alternatively, game console  may automatically pause the game application upon detecting that a device has been connected to the USB controller  or  and wait for receiving user instructions via the game controller  to receive further processing instructions.","The method  of  enables a variety of user choices for playing media files. For example, a user may take vacation pictures on their digital camera B. Then, the user can take the digital camera B to their friend's house and plug it into the USB controller of their friend's game console  and show their vacation pictures to the friends on a large television display instead of a small camera display. The game console  may display (e.g., on a large screen or plasma screen television) a list of the digital pictures on the digital camera B (possibly along with small versions of the images) and allow the user to select particular digital pictures or to select showing all of the digital pictures in a slide show format. In this manner, a user can simply plug digital camera B into game console  and then use the user-friendly interface of game console  instead of the digital camera B user interface.","Further, a user may take vacation pictures on their digital camera B and then store them onto a USB memory device A (e.g., via a personal computer). Then, the user can take the portable USB memory device A to their friend's house and plug the device A into the USB controller of their friend's game console  and show their vacation pictures.","Also, a user may store audio (e.g., music) onto audio player E and play the music via game console . Game console  may display a music visualizer (e.g., on a television via A\/V port ) based on the music and thus, provide a much more interesting listening experience.","Additionally, a user may decide that they are tired of listening to the soundtrack of a particular game application and may then download a group of songs onto an audio MP3 player E (e.g., from their personal computer via the Internet). Then the user can connect their MP3 player to USB controller . Game console  detects the connection of MP3 player E and displays a Soundtrack menu. The user can then select a particular song or group of songs on the MP3 player and game console  plays the user's song selection instead of the game application's default song. Alternatively, a user may use game console  to play songs on their MP3 player without playing any game application on game console .","Further, a user may connect a smart phone A, video camera C, PDA D, a mobile phone including a camera and storage for media files, and the like to game console  and play media files stored on smart phone A, video camera C, PDA D, in a similar manner as described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","100","220","240","610","100","220","240","128","228","100"]},"At step , game console  determines the protocol of the connected networking device  or communication device  (and may also determine the type of portable device). For example, game console  may determine that the USB cable modem A or USB wireless network adapter B communicates in accordance with the USB Mass Storage Specification. Alternatively, game console  may determine that wireless flash configuration device C communicates via a proprietary protocol, or the like. Further, game console  may determine that web camera A, keyboard B, or mouse C communicates via a proprietary protocol or via an HID mouse driver, or the like","At step , game console  uses the driver associated with the protocol determined at step  to communicate with the connected networking device  or communication device . For example, game console  may communicate with web camera A thereby providing images to game console . Game console  may communicate with networking device , such as, USB cable modem A or USB wireless adapter B to provide network capability to game console . Further, game console  may communicate with communication device , such as, keyboard B or mouse C, thereby providing an alternative user input device (i.e., in addition to game controller ).","The method  of  enables a variety of user choices for networking with game console . For example, a user may wish to play online games but may not have a personal computer to access the Internet and some game consoles are not provided with a network interface. Also, some Internet Service Providers may only allow access via cable modems and some game consoles are not provided with internal cable modems. Connecting an external cable modem A to game console  enables access to the Internet regardless of the networking hardware provided with the game console.","Further, connecting a keyboard or mouse enables a user to interact with a gaming application via the keyboard B or mouse C, in addition to the conventional game controller . Connection of web camera A may enable video chat, instant messaging with video images, community lounges, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","100","220","710","100","220","226","100"]},"At step , game console  determines the protocol of the connected wireless flash configuration device C (and may also determine the type of portable device). For example, game console  may determine that the portable media device  communicates in accordance with the USB Mass Storage Specification. Game console  may also determine that wireless flash configuration device C communicates via some proprietary protocol.","At step , game console  uses the driver associated with the protocol determined at step  to communicate with wireless flash configuration device C.","At step , game console  displays a networking configuration wizard and receives user inputs in response to displayed prompts for network information from the configuration wizard.","At step , game console , writes the network configuration information to the wireless flash configuration device C using the determined protocol. In this manner, a user may utilize a convenient user-friendly interface (via game console ) to configure their wireless network (e.g., their home wireless network, which may not include game console ), rather than dealing with the complexity of configuring the wireless network using a personal computer.","Game console  may execute steps  through  while the game application is executing. In that case, steps  through  are typically executed within the processing time and resources that are not dedicated to the gaming application. Further, if steps  through  are being executed while the game application is executing, game console  may, at step  indicate in a non-obtrusive way that game console  has detected the connection of a particular USB device and may interact with game controller  to determine how to proceed. For example, game console  may display a small icon, sometimes called a \u201cnotification,\u201d on the screen to notify the user that game console  has detected a portable device being connected to USB controller  or . Alternatively, game console  may automatically pause the game application upon detecting that a device has been connected to the USB controller  or  and wait to receive user instructions via the game controller  to determine how to proceed.","The connectivity between game console  and various portable devices provides increased flexibility for gaming, also. For example, a user may store gaming application data on USB memory device A, thus making that data portable. For example, a user may store a game-clip (also referred to as a \u201cghost race\u201d, a \u201chighlight\u201d, a \u201chighlight race\u201d, or a \u201csaved game\u201d) onto USB memory device A. Thus, the game clip can be carried to a friend's game console on the USB memory device A. Game console , in such a case, would provide a user interface for both storing gaming application data to the USB memory device A and uploading the stored gaming application from the USB memory device A to another game console. Game demos are other game-related data that may be stored and uploaded to\/from USB memory device A.","Other gaming data that may be stored on USB memory device A includes gaming configuration data also called a \u201cgamer profile.\u201d For example, game console  may store game related configuration settings, such as, a \u201cleft handed\u201d game controller  configuration to USB memory device A. In this manner, a user can carry USB memory device A to their friend's house and be able to upload that \u201cleft handed\u201d game controller  configuration to their friend's game console .","Further gaming data that can be stored and uploaded via USB memory device A includes a team icon, a custom playbook\/roster, a player emblem, a log of last played games, customization, a racing game suspension setting, a racing game bike model or color, a racing game suit color, and the like. If the user then plays the game at a friend's house, the user can access the stored game settings via the USB memory device A by uploading his game configuration settings to the game console  at the friend's house.","Aspects of the invention may be implemented via computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.","Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","It should be noted that although the game console discussed herein is described as a dedicated game console (not a general-purpose PC running computer games), the game console may also incorporate additional functionality. For example, the game console may be a multimedia console and may include digital video recording functionality so that it can operate as a digital VCR, the game console may include channel tuning functionality so that it can tune and decode television signals (whether they be broadcast signals, cable signals, satellite signals, etc.), and so forth. Further, in alternate embodiments, the game console is replaced with a set top box or other computing device.","As the foregoing illustrates, the invention is directed to game console communication to portable devices. It is understood that changes may be made to the illustrative embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concepts disclosed herein. Accordingly, it is understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed, but is intended to cover all modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in the drawings illustrative embodiments of the invention; however, the invention is not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 1"],"i":["a","b","a","b "],"b":["3","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
