---
title: Peer-to-peer networking system using interconnectivity framework and peer library for interacting with applications
abstract: An interconnectivity framework, method, and system for communicating in a peer-to-peer network is disclosed. A peer of the interconnectivity framework includes a peer library for publishing, messaging and locating component blocks over the peer-to-peer network and a telespace framework for managing component blocks in response to a requirement of an application to be executed at the peer. The component blocks being obtained by the peer library enable execution of the application at the peer in accordance with the requirement. The requirement defines the type of application so that the appropriate component blocks can be obtained from the peer-to-peer network. A networker is further included to enable communication with specific grids of the peer-to-peer network and to enable the publishing, messaging, and locating of objects published by specific peers of a grid of the peer-to-peer network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07421708&OS=07421708&RS=07421708
owner: Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
number: 07421708
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20040601
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7 119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/476,084, filed on Jun. 4, 2003 and entitled \u201cVirtual\/Real World Dynamic Intercommunication Methods and Systems,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to peer-to-peer networks, and more specifically to a framework infrastructure that enables peers to access data, interact with applications, and navigate through content in a virtual\/real world connected environment.","2. Description of the Related Art","A decentralized computing environment is defined by a number of computing systems interconnected to communicate with one another, wherein each computing system can perform both client and server functions. A peer-to-peer (P2P) network represents a decentralized computing environment in which each computing system within the P2P network is defined as a peer of every other computing system within the network. For discussion purposes, each peer computing system within the P2P network is referred to as a node. Additionally, each node within the P2P network is configured to execute software having substantially equivalent functionality. Therefore, each node is enabled to act as both a provider and a user of data and services across the P2P network.","Although peer-to-peer networking has improved over the years and new uses continue to take advantage of such networking, the main functionally of peer-to-peer networking has not experienced much change. It is common for each peer in the network to have one or more applications and those applications communicate with other application of other peers. Some peers provide data to requesting peers and other peers process data for other peers. Such a configuration works, however, the investment needed by each peer to become an active member of the network can be substantial. Peer networking application must be loaded on the peer computers, drivers may need to be installed to access certain applications, and communication with other peers is dictated by the peer protocol of the network to which connection is requested.","In view of the foregoing, there is a need for a framework to enable flexible communication and interfacing with applications and data over a connected peer-to-peer network, which may be defined by one or more grids of peers.","Broadly speaking, the present invention provides architectures, methods, and computer readable media. The architectures and computer implemented methods define a framework for executing applications in component form over grids of a peer-to-peer network. A telespace frame work is provided to enable applications to define necessary components for executing a particular type of application or to communicate messages. The telespace framework includes a peer library (PeerLib) that enables the communication functionality with peers connected to particular grids of a peer-to-peer network. It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways, such as a process, an apparatus, a system, a device or a method on a computer readable medium. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.","An interconnectivity framework for communicating in a peer-to-peer network is disclosed. A peer of the interconnectivity framework includes a peer library for publishing, messaging and locating component blocks over the peer-to-peer network and a telespace framework for managing component blocks in response to a requirement of an application to be executed at the peer. The component blocks being obtained by the peer library enable execution of the application at the peer in accordance with the requirement.","A networker component for facilitating an application programming interface (API) of a peer in peer-to-peer network is disclosed. The networker component includes a resource manager for publishing resources of the peer to other peers of the peer-to-peer network and for obtaining objects from the other peers of the peer-to-peer network for an application. A grid manager is further included to create or join specific grids of the peer-to-peer network. A dispatcher for receiving messages at the peer from the peer-to-peer network is further included. And, a dynamic overlay objects (DOO) component is provided as part of the networker for creating the specific grids in response to instructions from the grid manager.","A method for executing an application at a peer having a telespace framework that is connected to a peer-to-peer network is disclosed. The method first includes defining a peer library for publishing, messaging and locating component blocks over the peer-to-peer network. Then, the method includes defining a telespace framework for managing component blocks in response to a requirement of an application to be executed at the peer. The component blocks are obtained by the peer library to enable execution of the application at the peer in accordance with the requirement.","A computer readable media including program instructions for executing an application at a peer having a telespace framework that is connected to a peer-to-peer network is disclosed. The computer readable media includes program instructions for defining a peer library for publishing, messaging and locating component blocks over the peer-to-peer network. The computer readable media further includes program instructions for defining a telespace framework for managing component blocks in response to a requirement of an application to be executed at the peer. The component blocks being obtained by the peer library to enable execution of the application at the peer in accordance with the requirement.","An interconnectivity framework for communicating in a peer-to-peer network is provided. A peer of the interconnectivity framework includes a peer library means for publishing, messaging and locating component blocks over the peer-to-peer network. The interconnectivity framework further includes a framework means for managing component blocks in response to a requirement of an application to be executed at the peer. The component blocks are obtained by the peer library means to enable execution of the application at the peer in accordance with the requirement.","Other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","114","100","102","102"]},"Such sources can include computers, telephones, cellular communication devices, gaming programs, video and audio entertainment, news papers, and person-to-person communication. Depending on the location that the person is in, the real world will offer different experiences and access to interact with particular sources. For instance, the sources available while a person is at the office may be different than the sources available to the person while at home or at a restaurant. Many times, sources, such an audio library of songs, will only be available on the person's home computer, and not at the office. In another example, a person walking down the street may be exposed to a number of sources that are not available at home. Such sources may include, for instance, store fronts, weather conditions, banks, other people, posters, restaurants, automobiles, etc. Thus, as can be appreciated, people tend to function in the real world knowing what sources are available to them, depending on their physical location. A virtual world application  attempts to mimic the real world, where the types of sources and exposures to content can be virtually unbound, depending on where the person desires to travel to or interact with.","Consequently, the virtual world application  would allow a user to enter an environment, which will provide a menu of potential \u201cinterest spaces,\u201d and depending on the selection, the options available in the virtual world will be filtered down to a subset. For instance, if the user desires to enter a gaming room, the interest space will include game sessions in progress or available to the user. As part of the interest space, other users that selected same interest space may already be interconnected and able to share information, program components, data and communicate messages with one another. Note that basic peer-to-peer network interconnectivity is referred to throughout this document by many synonyms including \u201cpeer to peer overlay\u201d, \u201cgrid\u201d, \u201cnetwork grid\u201d or \u201cgrid overlay\u201d. Peer-to-peer networking implies a form of network communication where every node has roughly equivalent abilities to send and receive data. Thus, the virtual application  is only an example, and when the peer selects to enter an interest space, the network grids in which the peer is part of will change. Based on what the user (i.e., connected peer) wants to do in the interest space, the peer will be able to select other available applications. The applications, as will be described below, can vary significantly. And, applications running on peers operate based on a distributed component architecture.","Inertest space management will perform the filtering, which enables specific grids to be accessed by particular peers. The filtering can be task dependent, priority dependent, entity dependent, interactive\/real-time evaluated, data collection and caching, and lazy evaluation and expandable interest zones. Initially, the starting point for a peer can be a \u201chome space,\u201d which defines a grid overlay that is most interesting to the peer user. Access to the home space can be subscription based, or can be centrally organized like real life. Local space vs. shared space can also be a determining factor in the filtering, or the filtering can be physical based (i.e., GPS to virtual location mapping).","Thus, an application running on a peer will be defined by components blocks (objects), which are part of a component architecture  of the telespace framework . The telespace framework  will further include a publish and subscribe (P&S) component , a peer library (PeerLib)  and a P2P API  that is part of PeerLib . The telespace component  of each peer in the peer-to-peer network will thus run over its own operating system .","As used herein, the term \u201ctelespace\u201d identifies a type of space in which peers of a peer-to-peer network may join, enter, exit, interact in, communicate through, and simply communicate with other peers or groups of peers. Thus, the space of a particular telespace can include particular grids of a defined interest or a number of grids that enable certain peers, which may have joined the particular grid(s), to interact with one another, share data (e.g., file data, component data, audio and\/or video data, game data, multimedia data, etc.), share components or objects, and establish linked sessions with one or more peers. Thus, the term \u201ctelespace\u201d should be given a broad definition, which should not limit the claims to specific spaces, but provide a context for the described structure and\/or functionally.","With the above definition in mind, the Telespace framework API , depending on the application will provide different functionality. In the simple example of , the applications can include, as a limited simple example, a connectivity application , a game application , a game application , and the larger encompassing virtual world application . With reference to the virtual world application , the application that defines the virtual world application  will require certain component blocks to define the application. The component blocks are managed by the component architecture  of the telespace framework API. The component blocks of the component architecture  are objects that define a wrapper around data and\/or methods. As used in this application, objects and component blocks will be used interchangeably. However, some objects may consist of more than one component block. These aggregated blocks are referred to as entities.","In the peer-to-peer environment of the telespace component , the applications are defined by component blocks of the component architecture . Depending on the application, certain component blocks will be needed from peers of the peer-to-peer grid to define the application's functionally. The telespace framework API  will further include a publish and subscribe (P&S) component . The P&S component  is in communication with a peer library (PeerLib) component . PeerLib component  includes a publish\/message\/locate (PML) component  and a peer-to-peer (P2P) API . The P2P API  will be described in more detail below, and is defined as networker .","The P&S component  is charged with publishing attributes of the component blocks (i.e., objects) that are part of the component architecture . In this manner, other peers that are connected to the grid overlay will know what attributes of the component blocks may be available to be shared. The P&S component  is also charged with subscribing. The function of subscribing enables messages to be sent to other published objects on the grid overlay. Thus, peers can publish that they hold objects that can be shared with other peers on the grid overlay, and peers can subscribe to information and status from objects that are already published on the grid overlay. The component blocks of the component architecture  will therefore be able to publish attributes and subscribe to attributes of components on the grid overlay using the P&S component .","P&S component  is message based (e.g., hierarchical ASCII, binary, XML like, etc.). The physical representation is independent of data transfer solution for inter-component communication. Thus, P&S mechanism is optimized for given computer architectures, and optimized for network transfer. Thus, in one embodiment, data is only sent if subscribed. Thus, the P&S component  is responsible for tracking subscriptions requests and distributing the publishable attributes, based on instructions from the source component (e.g., after execution, flag change, etc.), and based on requests from other components including remotely replicated components. The P&S component  is further responsible for the delivery of subscribed data. Examples include message queue handling, parent calling (e.g., get next message), automatic data placement (with or without notification), semi-automatic placement, etc.","The PML component , on the other hand, is charged with publishing objects themselves, messaging, and locating objects to and from the grid overlay. In addition to publishing objects, the publish code of the PML component  will also handle the publishing of attributes for the P&S component . Thus, PeerLib component  is responsible for obtaining the component blocks (i.e., objects) through the P2P API , in response to the needs of the application. As noted above, the applications running on a particular peer are composed of component blocks which are managed by the component architecture . The application will then access the component blocks to form a functional application. Thus, depending on the desired application, the component blocks are obtained over the grid overlay by the PML component  of the PeerLib .","Since these component blocks are shared over the grid overlay, as peers join a grid overlay or leave a grid overlay, the component blocks may be migrated to other connected peers. In this manner, peers needing the functionality of a particular component block can obtain the component block or access the component block from another peer that publishes the component's availability.","Still referring to , applications and utilize applications that may not require the component architecture . For instance, the connectivity application can simply exchange messages (e.g., that contain simple data or files) to and from the grid through the P2P API . Thus, no components are needed to operate the connectivity application , which may be used for teleconferencing or file sharing. No component blocks of architecture  are needed for the game application , which simply uses messaging communication to interact with a peer-to-peer online game. In game application , however, this game application will require certain components to enable the functionality on the local peer. For this reason, the component architecture  will request and obtain the necessary component blocks needed to operate a functional game application . Consequently, it will be understood that any type of application can be processed in the peer-to-peer environment defined by grids that form a telespace. The telespace is therefore defined in a broad sense in terms of a virtual world, and in more specific subsets of selected interest spaces. The peer architecture is therefore defined as a decentralized self-organizing scalable grid of peers for routing messages and exchanging data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","102","102","200","202","204","206","208","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["302","110","302","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","312","314","302","108","302","112","108"]},"The resource manager  is configured to manage the accessibility to and from published objects on the grid overlay network of peers. For instance, peers can send requests to the grid for resources. Once a resource is found on one or more peers of the grid, the requesting peer can then either download the resource or request that the resource be streamed to the requesting peer. Thus, peers will use the resource manager  to publish its resources that it can share, and peers can request the location of resources for subsequent access.","The grid manager  is configured to communicate with the DOO . The DOO  will provide the services to connect the requesting peer to the appropriate grid interconnection topology. Thus, depending on the grid that the application running on the peer desires to join or create, the grid manager  will select and load the appropriate overlay using the DOO . Once the peer joins or creates a grid overlay, the peer can receive or communicate messages from and to the other peers connected to the grid.","The dispatcher  is charged with dispatching messages for published objects that want to receive messages. Published objects that want to receive messages are published with a message handler. Thus, when messages come in from the grid and arrive at a peer, the messages come in to the dispatcher . If the message is not for the receiving peer, the dispatcher will pass the message onto Chord  or FCG , which in turn will pass the message on to another peer. As peer-to-peer networks are defined by a group of participants of a grid, the message can be passed on through the chain until the message arrives to the intended peer. In addition to passing on the messages to the immediate neighbor peer, the messages can be passed on to other peers using entry points, though a FCG connection. However, if the message is for the peer, instead of passing the message on to another peer, the message can be passed up to the application of the peer.","The mechanisms to find entry points in the telespace can include, for example, hub peers (for predefined entry point servers), multi-layered broadcast\/hop-ring multicast, manual specifications, random tail, etc.","Still referring to , the networker component  is also shown connected to a socket API . The socket API  is part of the operating system  of  above. Thus, networker component  provides the interface to the grid for peers, which allows peers to function in a virtual world application, which is defined by peers (and their shared resources). The componentization of applications therefore enables efficient resource sharing within a grid, and the networker component  provides the efficient communication power necessary to handle the publishing, subscribing, messaging and locating necessary to function in a connected grid of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 5 through 7","FIG. 5"],"b":["502","500","502","504","504","502","504","504"],"i":"a "},"In grid of , the peers  continue to be interconnected by chord as defined above, but in addition, fully connected grid (FCG) connections are added. The FCG connections define connections used by peers  of the grid to play a game (i.e., a P2P game). As games require less latency to efficiently play and allow interaction, the FCG connections provide this additional overlay, which is provided by the DOO  of .","In the grid of , the peers  are still connected by chord, but also include several other FCG connections. In this example, a low latency requiring connection is shown for video phone conferencing, and defined by connections . Further added is an instant messaging chat session (e.g., Yahoo's IRC AIM). In this grid , therefore, the peers are able to establish a connection with the grid and particular other pees, share components with other peers, and message with other peers.","As an overview, a virtual world application is provided to allow for controlled data exchange between connected platforms of a peer-to-peer grid. The virtual world application is also referred to herein as a \u201cTeleSpace.\u201d As an example, the virtual world application provides common interfaces and operating conventions. In one embodiment, the common interfaces and operating conventions provide an API for controlled data exchange between connected platforms. The API and associated framework allow creation of distributed scenegraph-type applications. The virtual world application is based on a software infrastructure that is adaptable and quickly modifiable as needed to use and communicate with component-based inter-network applications. The virtual world application is designed for high performance and scalability to numerous applications, platforms, users, entities, and databases.","Peer-to-peer networks are decentralized computing systems made up of peers, which define nodes of the network. In some exemplary embodiments, a peer can include any computing device, such as a desktop-class computer, a server-class computer, a mobile device, a hand-held device, a cell phone, a PDA, a game machine, a game console, etc. However, in other embodiments, the peer can be a computing device that is capable of establishing communication with another computing device, as long as the computing devices are connected to the P2P network.","Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand-held devices, microprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire-based or wireless network.","With the above embodiments in mind, it should be understood that the invention can employ various computer-implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared and otherwise manipulated.","Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose, or the apparatus can be a general-purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular, various general-purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.","The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data, which can be thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives, network attached storage (NAS), read-only memory, random-access memory, CD-ROMs, CD-Rs, CD-RWs, magnetic tapes and other optical and non-optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network-coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.","Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly, the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein, but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the invention may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 through 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
