---
title: Unmanned watercraft retrieval system
abstract: An underwater retrieval body connected at its forward bow end by a towing line to a retrieval ship, has attachment facilities at its opposite aft end for attachment thereof during underwater propulsion with an unmanned watercraft by engaging its projecting hook or reception of a projecting probe. During propulsion of the underwater retrieval body toward the unmanned watercraft, it is maneuvered into alignment therewith through steering rudder fins under control of a homing control system on the underwater retrieval body, in response to reception of tracking signals emitted from the unmanned watercraft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06883453&OS=06883453&RS=06883453
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06883453
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040419
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","The present invention relates generally to the retrieval of watercraft. ","Current methods for retrieving unmanned waterborne vehicles such as small boats onto a retrieval ship often involve use of cranes or davits to lower some attachment device such as a hook from the retrieval ship onto the small boat to be retrieved. Under high sea state conditions, such retrieval methods become operationally difficult and inadequate because of the high winds and sea waves. In view of such retrieval difficulties, current practice often involves use of personnel to control maneuvering of the small boat to be retrieved, and manipulation of the crane suspended hook for attachment purposes. Such retrieval methods have therefore been become extremely difficult to perform and time consuming. It is therefore an important object of the present invention to provide a mostly underwater retrieval system which avoids use of the attachment lowering crane or davit and is fully automated to perform retrieval of a small boat under low to high sea state conditions. ","Pursuant to the present invention, an underwater towed body connected by a towing line to a retrieval ship, is automatically maneuvered by adjustable steering rudder fins thereon under control of tracking signals emitted by a beacon from an unmanned vehicle such as a floating watercraft or submarine to be retrieved by docking thereof onto the retrieval ship. The towed body is thereby maneuvered into an aligned position relative to the unmanned vehicle for attachment thereto in order to induce its movement toward the retrieval ship for docketing thereof on the retrieval ship. ","Referring now to the drawing in detail,  illustrate a relatively small unmanned vehicle  such as a watercraft floating in seawater  at some location from which it is to be retrieved by docking on board a seawater retrieval ship . Retrieval of the unmanned watercraft  as hereinafter explained involves use of a small size towed retrieval body  connected by a towing line  to the retrieval ship . The unmanned watercraft  may be powered and refueled from some external source as generally known in the art before being engaged by the towed body  for retrieval by docketing onto the ship .","In , the unmanned watercraft  is shown located adjacent to but disengaged from the retrieval body  at the beginning of a retrieval process. In , the unmanned watercraft  is shown engaged by the retrieval body  so as to be towed thereby through the towing line  toward the retrieval ship  shown in  with a docking platform  pivotally mounted thereon, from which the towing line  is extended and through which it is reeled into a cable storage roll . When the unmanned watercraft  is attached to the retrieval body  as shown in , it may be towed therewith toward the retrieval ship  during reel in of the towing line  in order to accommodate reception thereof onto the pivotally inclined docking platform  as shown in . The docking platform  may then be pivotally displaced to its retracted horizontal position with the towing line storage roll  received in a receptacle  for docking retention of the watercraft  onboard the retrieval ship .","Referring now to , ,  and , the retrieval body  according to one embodiment has a forward convergent bow end  to which the towing line  is connected. A pair of angularly adjustable control surface rudder fins  extend vertically upward from the top of the body , while a rudder fin  is fixed to the bottom of the body  between elongated legs   also fixed thereto. Angularly adjustable side fins  extend laterally from the sides of the towed body . The rudder fins  and  are angularly adjusted under automated control so as to maneuver the body  while attached to the towing line  relative to the unmanned watercraft  as shown in , for attachment thereto by hooked engagement therewith as shown in .","Aft end portions  on the retrieval body  are downwardly inclined as shown in  for support of a pair of poles  in lowered positions, pivotally connected at their upper ends to the body  by pivot anchors . The lower ends of the poles  suspend therefrom a wire loop  so as to be positioned in underlying relation to a hook  projecting from the unmanned watercraft  in its aligned position adjacent to the body  as shown in . Thus, the poles  when raised from their lowered position as shown in  engage the wire loop  with the hook  so as to attach the watercraft  to the body  for towing to and retrieval docking on the ship .","Also positioned on top of the retrieval body  at its aft end between the pole pivot anchors  is a guidance lens scanner  connected to a photocell maneuvering array , also positioned on the towed body  as shown in  and diagrammed in , for maneuvering the body  (by the adjustable rudder fins  and  as aforementioned) under automatic control of an optical homing control system . Inputs to the homing control system  are received from the photocell array  in response to tracking light signals from the guidance lens scanner . Such light signals are generated by an optical beacon  on the unmanned watercraft . Steering command outputs of the maneuvering control system  in response to the tracking light signals are accordingly applied through steering actuators associated with the rudder fins  and . Each of the steering actuators as diagrammed in  may embody an electrically  controlled actuator device  for angular steering adjustment of the rudder fin  for example as shown in . The steering adjustment actuator device  connected to the homing control system  has an adjustment rod  extending therefrom for pivotal connection through a bell crank  to a pivot bearing hinge  on the rudder fin .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIGS. 8\u201313","FIG. 12","FIG. 13"],"b":["10","16","16","10","44","62","10","16","16","64","66","62","10","16","68","16","64","62","16","64","66","68","10"]},"The foregoing watercraft retrieval process involving use of the retrieval body  or \u2032 may be applied to a submarine type watercraft as in the case of the surface floating watercraft  described. Additionally, other modifications and variations of the present invention may be possible in light of the foregoing teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described. "],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of its attendant advantages will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawing wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"],"b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["11","11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 8\u201311"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12","FIG. 8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
