---
title: Portable vibratory screed with vibration restraint
abstract: A portable vibratory screed machine is provided with a vibration restraint operable to reduce undesirable vibration of the engine and to extend the life of the engine. The portable vibratory screed machine includes a machine frame having a reference structure. The machine further includes an engine mounted on the reference structure via a mount that surrounds a drive shaft that is driven by the engine's output. A vibratory assembly remotely located from the engine is powered by the engine to vibrate a screed plate. The vibration restraint directly couples the engine housing to the reference structure at a location that is spaced apart from the mount.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07052204&OS=07052204&RS=07052204
owner: Wacker Corporation
number: 07052204
owner_city: Menomonee Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040204
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to a portable vibratory screed machine, and, more particularly, relates to a portable vibratory screed machine having a vibration restraint configured to reduce undesirable vibrational wear on and extend the life of the machine's engine.","2. Discussion of the Related Art","Numerous screed machines employ vibratory action to tamp and smooth concrete in the strike off step of a concrete finishing operation. Known vibratory screed machines comprise, for instance, an elongated blade extending horizontally and transversally at lower ends of a pair of handles adapted to be hand held and operated for displacing the wet screed over a concrete surface. A motor is provided above the blade and between the handles. The motor's output extends to the blade, where it is connected to a vibratory assembly having one or more eccentric weights configured to impart vibrations to the screed blade upon motor operation. A handle permits an easy and constant correction of the level of the concrete with minimum effort. A throttle control is provided at the handle such that the speed of the motor may be adjusted as the blade is displaced over the concrete being surfaced.","One specific example of a known vibrating plate machine is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,340,351, which describes a vibratory concrete screed used in the final finishing of concrete. This screed requires two operators. As another example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,641,995 describes a vibratory concrete screed, which rides on forms to screed narrow strips of concrete, such as walks. This screed is mounted on the operator via a complicated harness counter-weighted frame and is powered by electricity. As a result, the screed requires electrical power, and the screed requires manipulation of lengthy extension cords. These and other screeds are designed to be used only after concrete has been leveled and preliminarily tamped. None of these screeds is suitable to \u201cwet screed\u201d large slabs of freshly poured concrete that has not yet been leveled or tamped at all.","In the absence of widely accepted wet screeding machines, the industry standard for wet screeding is to perform that process manually. Typically, in manual wet screeding, a 2-inch by 4-inch board that is 8-foot to 20-foot long is manipulated manually by one or two men hand working in conjunction with as many as four laborers, known as \u201cpuddlers,\u201d who push the fresh concrete in place with concrete rakes. The hand puddling and wet screeding process is slow, inefficient, labor intensive, and extremely fatiguing, particularly if large slabs are poured and finished over the course of an entire day or more. It is also often requires the addition of more water to the concrete mix to make it more workable. The addition of water to produce slumps of 6-inch to 8-inces is common in the industry to increase the workability of the concrete, allowing the finisher to effectively hand \u201cwet screed\u201d the fresh concrete. The hand process typically limits the finisher to the average pour of 6,000 to a maximum of 8,000 square feed of slab per day for crew of six. The additional water reduces the strength of the concrete, causing voids and weak spots in the cured concrete.","Proposals have been made to reduce the labor required for wet screeding by providing portable vibratory \u201cwet screed\u201d machines. These machines typically have an engine coupled to an drive shaft. The engine is generally an internal combustion engine having a housing, a fuel tank, a clutch housing, etc. The drive shaft is configured to drive a vibrator drive shaft of the vibratory assembly. The engine housing or a support therefore is secured to a housing for the vibrator drive shaft at one point by a clamp. The clamp location is approximately midway between a centroid of the engine and the blade. The clamp provides only limited restraint to the engine and drive shaft relative to the vibratory assembly along the x-y reference plane. Vibrations generated upon screed operation by the eccentric vibratory assembly therefore are transmitted to the clamp point and generate severe vibrations on the engine about all three (x, y, z) axes. The vibrations are known to cause failures not only in the clutch housing, but also of the handle assembly, the fuel tank, oil seals, the engine block, etc. Engine block failures are the most problematic because the engine is by far the most expensive component of the wet screed. The screed therefore is typically considered spent when the engine block fails. Vibratory wet screeds therefore historically have had a reputation of being unreliable, hindering their acceptance by the industry as a whole.","In light of the foregoing, a portable vibratory screed machine is desired with reduced undesirable vibration on the motor and extended motor life associated with operation of the vibratory screed machine in the surfacing of concrete.","The present invention provides an improved portable vibratory screed having a vibration restraint configured to reduce undesirable vibration on the engine and to extend the engine's life. The apparatus is ideally suited for use with wet screeds, but is usable with other vibratory screed machines as well.","In accordance with a first aspect of the invention, one or more of the above-identified needs is met by providing a vibration restraint configured for mounting on a portable vibratory screed machine powered by an engine mounted on a frame, the engine coupled to an drive shaft configured to drive a vibratory assembly, the vibratory assembly coupled to the frame and a screed plate for surfacing a poured concrete surface, the vibration restraint configured to reduce vibration of the engine. The vibration restraint is radially spaced from the drive shaft and has a first end and a second end opposite the first end. The first end is coupled to the engine housing and the second end coupled to the platform assembly.","In accordance with a second aspect of the invention, a portable vibratory screed machine includes a machine frame having a reference structure, an engine including a drive shaft and being mounted on the reference structure via a mount that surrounds the drive shaft, a vibratory assembly located remote from the engine, the vibratory assembly powered by the engine to vibrate, and a vibration restraint configured to restrain vibration of the engine. The vibration restraint directly couples the engine to the reference structure at a location that is spaced apart from the mount.","The resulting portable vibratory screed machine of the present invention has several advantages over prior vibratory plate machines. The vibratory plate does not interfere with or hinder normal operation of the portable vibratory screed machine. Further, the vibratory plate reduces the imposition of undesirable vibrations on the engine and thereby extends the engine life.","In accordance with a third aspect of the invention, the present invention provides a method of extending a life of an engine having a drive shaft configured to drive a portable vibratory assembly. The engine is mounted on a reference structure of the portable vibratory screed machine. The method includes the acts of operating the engine to drive the vibratory assembly to generate vibrations, and restraining the engine relative to the vibratory assembly in a direction generally parallel to a central axis of the drive shaft. The act of restraining can include providing a restraint having a first end and a second end, coupling the first end of the restraint to the engine, and coupling the second end of the restraint to the reference structure.","Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the detailed description and specific examples, while indicating the preferred embodiments of the present invention, are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof, and the invention includes all such modifications.","A wide variety of vibration restraints for screeds could be constructed in accordance with the invention as defined by the claims. Hence, while preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to a portable vibratory wet screed machine, it should be understood that the invention is in no way so limited. For instance, it is also usable with a variety of different vibratory screed machines that are potentially subject to undesired engine vibration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["20","25","25","30","35","25","45","40","30","40","45","45","45","25","50","35","50","58","35","60","62","58","105","45"]},"A preferred engine  is a 4-stroke internal combustion engine of the type generally used for a portable vibratory screed machine. The engine  generally includes a housing or engine block , a crankcase , a fuel tank , a clutch housing , and a conventional air supply system (not shown). The clutch couples the engine output shaft (not shown) to a generally vertical drive shaft . The drive shaft , in turn, is coupled to an input shaft  of the vibratory assembly  by a flex joint  (). The engine  additionally includes an ignition system which, in the present example, comprises a manual pull starter . The engine  may be power by gasoline or other fuels.","The frame  includes a platform assembly  that is supported on the screed blade  by a blade adapter bracket assembly . The blade adapter bracket assembly  is attached to the bottom of platform assembly  by conventional fasteners  and is vibrationally separated from the frame  by vibrational isolators such as elastomeric shock mounts . The platform assembly  includes a mount plate  and a lift handle . The lift handle  includes an annular collar  and a grip  extending outwardly from the collar . The handle  is reversible so that the grip  can extend either forwardly of the screed as shown or rearward therefrom. The engine  is supported on the mount plate  via a lower frustoconical shaft housing  and a complimentary frustoconical base  of the clutch housing . The base  is attached to the upper end of the housing  by a clamp assembly .","The vibratory assembly  is preferably an eccentric mass assembly rotationally coupled to the drive shaft  by the above-described flex joint  and input shaft . The exciter assembly  may, for instance, comprise a set of adjustable eccentric weights and one or more fixed eccentric weights (not shown). The exciter assembly  is contained within an eccentric cover . The eccentric cover  is attached to the underside of the blade adjuster bracket assembly  in a conventional manner. A flexible sealing ring  prevents concrete, dirt, and other foreign materials from invading the interior of the vibratory assembly .","The screed blade  is generally L-shaped on cross sectional view, having a top surface, a finishing surface, a cutting edge, and trailing edge. Structural gussets  extend the length of the blade providing more uniform transmission of vibrational energy. Adapters may be employed to connect the blade adapter bracket assembly  to different shaped screed blades.","The engine  is restrained from vibration by the above-described vibration restraint , which provides additional support to the engine  beyond that provided by the clamp assembly . The vibration restraint  preferably couples the engine  to the frame . A preferred vibration restraint  includes a plate  generally shaped to conform to the contours of the vibratory screed machine. Specifically, as best seen in , the plate  includes a first portion  aligned in a generally co-linear direction relative to a central axis  of the drive shaft , and a second portion  inclined with respect to the first portion  to conform to a narrower portion of the vibratory screed machine . The shape of the plate  (e.g., curvilinear, etc.) can vary. The plate  is preferably formed from steel, but could be formed from aluminum or another metal or another material entirely. The first portion  of the plate  terminates at a first, upper end , and the second portion  of the plate  terminates at a second, lower end . The first end  includes a pair of openings  configured to receive fasteners coupling the plate  to existing taps  in the engine housing . The second end  includes a flange portion  having a pair of openings  configured to receive fasteners coupling the plate  to the platform assembly . The flange  includes a curvilinear cutout portion  configured to receive a lower cylindrical end  of the shaft housing  (). The types of fasteners (e.g., spot welds, etc.) can vary. The vibration restraint  preferably is attached to the engine housing  using existing taps  in the engine housing  and is attached to the platform assembly  using existing fasteners on the platform assembly . However, additional\/and or other fasteners can be used apart from the illustrated fasteners. Structures supplementing or replacing the plate  could also be used as a vibrational restraint, so long as the structure(s) provide support for the engine  in addition to that provided by the clamp assembly .","The vibration restraint  is also configured to reduce undesirable vibration on clutch housing  and the engine  caused by vibrations from the eccentric movement of the vibratory assembly . Specifically, the plate  restrains vibration in a direction generally parallel to the central axis  of the drive shaft  but in a plane different from the drive shaft . The resultant load bearing triangulation and redundancy reduces the vibrational movement of the engine  and thereby enhances the engine's operating life.","In operation, an operator can initiate start-up of the engine  by either activating an automatic starter or pulling the manual pull starter system . Clutch engagement causes the engine  to drive rotation of the drive shaft  at a standard operating speed ranging from 4,000 to 8,000 rpm, but preferably in a standard operating range of 5,000 to 6,000 rpm. The rotating drive shaft  causes the flex coupling  and vibratory assembly input shaft  to rotate. The shaft  in turn drives rotation of the adjustable eccentric weights and the fixed eccentric weights of the vibratory assembly , thereby imparting vibrations to the bracket blade adapter assembly  and thus to the screed blade . The vibration isolators  reduce the magnitude of vibrations transmitted to the handle assembly  and the operator.","Engine speed and, hence, the frequency and intensity to the vibrations are controlled by a throttle control lever  attached to the handle assembly . The action of the throttle control lever  is transmitted to the engine . The vibrational force is transmitted through the blade adapter assembly  and along the screed blade , where structural gussets  strengthen blade  and apply the vibrational force evenly across the poured concrete.","The vibration restraint  of the portable vibratory screed machine  is operable to reduce undesirable vibration and associated wear and extends the engine life. This response is considered adequate for operating portable vibratory screed machines.","Tests indicate the vibration restraint  is operable to dramatically reduce the undesired vibration experienced by the engine . In these tests, movements of both the engine  and the mount plate  were measured along x, y, z reference points  and  at the engine  and at the mount plate  of the platform assembly , respectively. At an engine operating speed of 5,000 rpm (the low end of the standard operating speed of the disclosed wet screed), the results, measured in units of gravitation acceleration (g's), are reflected in Table 1:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Vibration Reduction at 5,000 rpm,"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"SCREED",{}]},{"entry":[{},"STANDARD",{},"w\/VIBRATION"]},{"entry":[{},"SCREED",{},"RESTRAINT"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ENGINE","BASE","ENGINE","BASE"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["X","2.2","1.9","2.7","2.0"]},{"entry":["Y","7.3","9.4","4.1","7.8"]},{"entry":["Z","7.5","2.8","3.1","4.0"]},{"entry":["SUM","10.7","10.0","5.8","9.0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"At an engine operating speed of 6,000 rpm, the results measured in units of gravitation acceleration, are reflected in Table 2:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Vibration Reduction at 6,000 rpm"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"SCREED",{}]},{"entry":[{},"STANDARD",{},"w\/VIBRATION"]},{"entry":[{},"SCREED",{},"RESTRAINT"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ENGINE","BASE","ENGINE","BASE"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["X","3.4","2.3","3.1","2.1"]},{"entry":["Y","5.6","7.0","4.0","6.3"]},{"entry":["Z","9.5","1.8","3.8","3.3"]},{"entry":["SUM","11.5","7.6","6.3","7.4"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In reducing vibrational forces on the engine  and the clutch housing , the test results also show that the vibration restraint  is operable to increase the operating life of the engine  by a factor of two to eight times relative to the standard operating life of an engine of the same portable vibratory screed assembly without the vibration restraint . Tests were performed on portable vibratory wet screed machines configured as described above but lacking a vibration restraint and on corresponding portable vibratory wet screed machines having the vibration restraint . The engines were operated at a standard operating speed of 5,000 to 6,000 rpm, and the blades were submerged in foam and water to simulate concrete. The types of machines tested varied in length of screed blade (e.g., 6 foot to 10 foot) and varied settings of the exciter (i.e., half to full setting). The test results show that engines of a portable vibratory screed machines lacking a vibration restraint exhibit, on average, an operating life of 35 to 50 hours. In comparison, engines of corresponding portable vibratory screed machines having the vibration restraint  typically demonstrated operational lives of 175 to 400 hours or even more. Forty percent of the engines of the sampled machines exhibited operating lives that exceeded 200 hours. Several of the tests, exceeding 400 hours, ended without failures.","As indicated above, many changes and modifications may be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof. The scope of some of these changes is discussed above. The scope of others will become apparent from the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred exemplary embodiments of the invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
