---
title: Emission control system
abstract: Methods and apparatus utilizing hydrogen peroxide are useful to reduce NOx, SOx and mercury (or other heavy metal) emissions from combustion flue gas streams. Continuous concentration of hydrogen peroxide to levels approaching or exceeding propellant-grade hydrogen peroxide facilitates increased system efficiency. In this manner, combustion flue gas streams can be treated for the removal of NOx, SOx and heavy metals, while isolating useful by-products streams of sulfuric acid and nitric acid as well as solids for the recovery of the heavy metals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07404938&OS=07404938&RS=07404938
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07404938
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040511
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention relates generally to emission control and in particular to the control of emissions from combustion sources.","Control of emissions from fossil fuel combustions sources addresses a major environmental problem. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Clean Air Act regulates the emissions from fossil fuel-fire power plants. Initial regulations were focused on oxides-of-nitrogen (NOx) and oxides-of-sulfur (SOx) emissions, but newer regulations will include provisions to control heavy metals (Hg, etc.) and carbon dioxide.","Gas streams from combustion processes are often scrubbed, i.e., contacted with water, to remove many of their contaminants. However, these scrubbing processes often produce hazardous waste streams that must be dealt with.","For the reasons stated above, and for other reasons stated below that will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification, there is a need in the art for alternative methods and apparatus for treating combustion gas streams.","Methods and apparatus utilizing hydrogen peroxide to reduce NOx, SOx and mercury (or other heavy metal) emissions are described herein. Continuous concentration of hydrogen peroxide (HO) to levels approaching or exceeding propellant-grade hydrogen peroxide facilitates increased system efficiency. By utilizing methods and apparatus in accordance with the invention, combustion flue gas streams can be treated for the removal of NOx, SOx and heavy metals, while isolating useful by-products streams of sulfuric acid and nitric acid as well as solids for the recovery of the heavy metals.","The invention further includes methods and apparatus of varying scope.","In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific preferred embodiments in which the inventions may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical, mechanical and chemical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is noted that the drawings are not to scale unless a scale is provided thereon. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof","Emission control systems in accordance with the invention address environmental pollutants NOx, SOx and heavy metals. Such systems are designed to control emissions of these environmental pollutants to the levels established by the EPA.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"The first step of the process is to use a heat exchanger  to cool the entering flue gas  or other gas stream and reheat the exiting processed flue gas . Alternately, an exhaust fan could be used in place of the heat exchanger , if desired, to boost the flue gas  out of an exhaust stack. The cooled flue gas  exits the heat exchanger  and is fed to a washer  where additional particulates are removed with process water  provided to washer . Particulates and wash water are sent from washer  to the sedimentation pond . Water is then recirculated from sedimentation pond  back to process water .","The washed flue is fed from washer  to a scrubber  for the removal of SOx and\/or heavy metals, such as mercury (Hg). Scrubber  uses hydrogen peroxide from hydrogen peroxide storage  to oxidize sulfurous acid to sulfuric acid to prevent reemission of SO. Hydrogen peroxide storage  preferably provides aqueous hydrogen peroxide of approximately 50% to 70% by volume, and more preferably at approximately 70% by volume. As the pH increases due to the formation of sulfuric acid, some of the heavy metals, including Hg, are dispersed as metal oxides and dissolved hydroxides are converted to sulfates. The remaining undissolved particulates and insoluble sulfates are removed with a centrifuge , such as a solid-bowl centrifuge. The SOx and\/or heavy metal scrubber liquor is fed to the centrifuge . The centrifuge  separates the solids that are discharged to the recycle solids container . The cleaned scrubber liquor is discharged from the centrifuge  and can be split using valves  and  to allow the centrifuge  to act as a circulation pump for the scrubber . Opening valve  controls the level of scrubber liquor once the desired concentration of sulfuric acid is achieved. The scrubber liquor exiting valve  is provided to sulfuric acid storage , which can then be utilized for fertilizer or industrial uses. The scrubber liquor exiting valve  is mixed with hydrogen peroxide and returned to the scrubber  as a first scrubbing mixture. The concentration of hydrogen peroxide in the first scrubbing mixture is maintained at a predetermined level, e.g., at least 0.1%. Control of the hydrogen peroxide level fed to scrubber  may be maintained using a hydrogen peroxide controller such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,039,783, issued to Lueck et al. on Mar. 21, 2000 and titled \u201cPROCESS AND EQUIPMENT FOR NITROGEN OXIDE WASTE CONVERSION TO FERTILIZER.\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 6,039,783 is commonly assigned and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.","The removal of SOx is generally required before the NOx scrubber system, since the presence of SOx interferes with the NOx removal. Since the primary form of NOx in combustion processes is nitric oxide (NO), which is not water soluble, it is not possible to remove this form of NOx directly with a hydrogen peroxide scrubber. The addition of an NO oxidizing system is required to produce nitrogen dioxide (NO), which can be effectively scrubbed. The combination of the concentration of NO and its low solubility in water permit the separation of sulfuric and nitric acids by processes in accordance with the invention.","When the flue gas exits the scrubber , and it contacts the demister , the mist that contains sulfuric acid coalesces. The coalesced mist is returned to the scrubber  and the desulfurized flue gas flows to the NO oxidation tower . Several methods are available to oxidize NO to NOwith hydrogen peroxide. For example, the hydrogen peroxide can be decomposed on a heated catalytic surface as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,793,903, issued on Sept. 21, 2004, which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. UV light can be used in combination with a catalytic surface as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,156,957 issued on Jan. 2, 2007, which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Additionally, UV light can be used in a catalytic configuration similar to monopropellant thrusters as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/641,581 filed Aug. 8, 2003, which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.","In a process as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,793,903, a hydrogen peroxide solution is directed onto a heated catalytic surface in a nitric oxide stream so that the hydrogen peroxide is decomposed to form oxidative free radicals, hydroxyl and hydroperoxyl, for the oxidation of the nitric oxide. The hydrogen peroxide solution is preferably delivered to the heated surface through a nozzle, which may also be heated, to increase the concentration of and thereby enrich the hydrogen peroxide solution. Additionally, or alternatively, higher concentrations of hydrogen peroxide can be generated as described below with reference to the hydrogen peroxide concentrator . Impinging an enriched hydrogen peroxide solution onto a heated surface accelerates the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide. Because the rapid decomposition of hydrogen peroxide occurs on the heated surface, there is no increased risk of explosion of stored hydrogen peroxide solution. Since the high temperature decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to oxidative free radicals, hydroxyl (.OH) and hydroperoxyl (HO2.), occurs in a stream of nitric oxide, distribution of the oxidative free radicals in the stream will cause rapid gas-phase oxidation of the nitric oxide to nitrogen dioxide.","In a process as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,156,957, UV (ultraviolet) light is used to decompose hydrogen peroxide to form hydroperoxy and hydroxyl free radicals for the oxidation of gas stream components, such as nitric oxide produced in a combustion process. The UV radiation is configured to focus on a hydrogen peroxide vaporizing surface. To further increase the decomposition rate of the hydrogen peroxide, a preheating operation can be utilized prior to vaporization. Preheating above a boiling point of the hydrogen peroxide solution can be used to enrich the peroxide concentration. This increases the concentration of hydrogen peroxide at the vaporization point. Additionally, or alternatively, higher concentrations of hydrogen peroxide can be generated as described below with reference to the hydrogen peroxide concentrator . The vaporizer can include a catalytic surface to further accelerate the decomposition of the hydrogen peroxide.","In a process as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/641,581, nitric oxide in a gaseous stream is converted to nitrogen dioxide using oxidizing species generated through the use of concentrated hydrogen peroxide fed as a monopropellant into a catalyzed thruster assembly. The hydrogen peroxide is preferably stored at stable concentration levels, i.e., approximately 50%-70% by volume, and may be increased in concentration by pre-heating the hydrogen peroxide solution preceding decomposition in the thruster assembly. Although initial concentrations of 70% or less by volume are suitable for this process, higher concentrations of hydrogen peroxide are preferred and can be generated as described below with reference to the hydrogen peroxide concentrator . The exhaust of the thruster assembly, rich in hydroxyl and\/or hydroperoxy radicals, may be fed into a stream containing oxidizable components, such as nitric oxide, to facilitate their oxidation.","Regardless of the desired method of oxidizing the NO species, the hydrogen peroxide may be supplied directly to the oxidation tower  or it may be further concentrated using hydrogen peroxide concentrator . Hydrogen peroxide concentrator  is adapted to concentrate the bulk hydrogen peroxide from hydrogen peroxide storage  to levels of at least 70% and preferably at least 80%. A suitable hydrogen peroxide concentrator is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,122,166 issued on Oct. 17, 2006, which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Such systems are capable of producing aqueous hydrogen peroxide solutions of up to 85% or more by volume in a continuous process that facilitates the use of propellant-grade hydrogen peroxide solutions in the oxidation tower  without the need to store substantial quantities of this unstable material.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["260","200","265","200","200","200"]},"As the hydrogen peroxide solution and the sweep gas flow through the concentrator , water permeates the membrane from the hydrogen peroxide solution and is taken up by the sweep gas, thereby producing a concentrated hydrogen peroxide solution and a wet exit gas. The concentrated hydrogen peroxide solution exits the concentrator  through a first outlet  while the wet exit gas exits the concentrator  through a second outlet .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","380","385","395","390","385","390","385","395","380","385"]},"The operation of the hydrogen peroxide concentrator in accordance with the invention is based on the permeability of water as compared with hydrogen peroxide through polymeric membranes. Although not essential, there are three important factors to consider when selecting a membrane for this application:\n\n","Examples of suitable membranes include polysulfone as well as perfluorinated polymers having sulfonic or carboxylic ionic functional groups. A specific example includes NAFION\u00ae brand of perfluorosulfonic acid\/TFE copolymer available from E.I. DuPont de Nemours, Wilmington, Del., USA. NAFION\u00ae polymer has excellent chemical stability while at the same time allowing ion transport. NAFION\u00ae polymer includes sodium or potassium salts of either tetrafluoroethylene\/perfluoro(4-methyl-3,6-dioxa-7-octene-1-sulfonic acid)copolymer or tetrafluoroethylene\/perfluoro(4-methyl-3,6-dioxa-7-octene-1-sulfonyl fluoride)copolymer. NAFION\u00ae polymer has been commonly used for gas drying and humidifying operations as well as ion exchange systems such as fuel cells.","Various embodiments utilize air to transport the water vapor from the hydrogen peroxide solution, but other carrier gases may also be used, such as nitrogen or any other non-reactive gas. Since the capacity of the dry air to retain water is a function of temperature, several temperatures were examined. The results of this testing are summarized in Table 1. As can be seen, as the temperature increases for both membranes, the final concentration of hydrogen peroxide increases. These increases in concentration are primarily the result of the increased capacity of the sweep air when heated. It would be expected that an increase in temperature would extract more water from the hydrogen peroxide solution up to the boiling point of water, e.g., 100\u00b0 C. at atmospheric pressure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0031"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"The Concentration of Hydrogen Peroxide"},{"entry":"at Various Air Temperatures of the Permeate Sweep Gas"},{"entry":"at Atmospheric Pressure"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Membrane",{},"Initial","Final"]},{"entry":["Material","Temperature","Concentration","Concentration"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["NAFION\u2009\u00ae","19\u00b0 C.","67.6%","75.7%"]},{"entry":[{},"42\u00b0 C.","69.6%","81.4%"]},{"entry":[{},"50\u00b0 C.","69.6%","85.4%"]},{"entry":["Polysulfone","20\u00b0 C.","69.5%","72.7%"]},{"entry":[{},"23\u00b0 C.","69.5%","75.8%"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Another factor that increases the rate of water removal, and the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide, is the flow rate of the sweep gas. At any given temperature, doubling the flow rate of the sweep air will approximately double the rate of concentration increase.","The calculated selectivity of the NAFION\u00ae polymer membrane for water over hydrogen peroxide is 2.4 when the sweep gas temperature is 50\u00b0 C. The selectivity of the polysulfone membrane was not calculated. However, the water flux through the polysulfone membrane is lower than the NAFION\u00ae polymer membrane, which means that the polysulfone membrane will require a larger surface area.","Due to the explosive potential of highly-concentrated hydrogen peroxide solutions, it is recommended that the temperature of the system be maintained below the boiling point of a 72% hydrogen peroxide solution.","While the various trials were performed at ambient pressures on the permeate side, lower pressures would accelerate the process by increasing the pressure differential across the membrane. By utilizing a suitable membrane support structure, it is expected that pressure differentials of 100 psi or more could be maintained through increasing pressure on the feed side and\/or decreasing pressure on the permeate side. Additionally, it is expected that the introduction of turbulence, e.g., through the use of baffles on one or both sides of the membrane, would improve the transport rates.","The required membrane area is dependent on the desired production rate and the permeability of the membrane. For the NAFION\u00ae polymer membrane, an area of about 600 sq ft is expected to be required to concentrate 1 gal per hour of hydrogen peroxide to 85 percent.","The flue gas that primarily contains NOexits the oxidation tower  and passes into the NOx and\/or heavy metal scrubber . Example scrubber systems for scrubber  are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,039,783, issued to Lueck et al. on Mar. 21, 2000 and titled \u201cPROCESS AND EQUIPMENT FOR NITROGEN OXIDE WASTE CONVERSION TO FERTILIZER\u201d and U.S. Pat. No. 6,641,638, issued to Lueck et al. on Nov. 4, 2003 and titled \u201cPROCESS FOR NITROGEN OXIDE WASTE CONVERSION TO FERTILIZER,\u201d each of which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. Scrubber systems such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,039,783 and 6,641,638 are advantageous for use with embodiments of the invention as they utilize control of the hydrogen peroxide concentration to improve scrubber efficiency.","As generally described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,039,783 and 6,641,638, gas streams are treated in a method including directing a gas stream containing at least one nitrogen-containing oxidizing agent to a first contact zone and contacting the gas stream with water to form oxy acid(s) of nitrogen. The method further includes directing the acid(s) as a second stream to a second contact zone and exposing the second stream to hydrogen peroxide which is present within the second contact zone to convert at least some of any oxy acid(s) of nitrogen to a nitrate ion. The method still further includes sampling the second contact zone to determine the relative amount of hydrogen peroxide within the second contact zone and adding hydrogen peroxide to the second contact zone when the sampling determines there is less than a predetermined level of hydrogen peroxide in the second stream. For one embodiment, the predetermined level is an amount necessary to provide a stoichiometric excess of hydrogen peroxide for reaction with the gas stream. For a further embodiment, the predetermined level is an absolute level of hydrogen peroxide in the second stream, e.g., approximately 0.1% hydrogen peroxide by volume in the second stream. The level of hydrogen peroxide in the scrubber liquor of scrubber  is controlled by controlling the flow rate of hydrogen peroxide into the scrubber .","The scrubber liquor from scrubber  is recirculated with centrifuge  until the nitric acid reaches the desired concentration. When the desired concentration of nitric acid is reached, it is discharged to nitric acid storage . Any residual solids that may contain heavy metals, such as Hg, are discharged into recycle solids container . The processed flue gas exits the scrubber  to the neutralizer  where residual acid gases are neutralized with a base. The neutralized gas then flows to the heat exchanger  to be reheated if necessary to facilitate flow out an exhaust stack as processed flue gas .","This emission control system provides a method based on hydrogen peroxide to reduce the NOx, SOx, and mercury emissions from combustion sources to acceptable levels as established by the US Environmental Production Agency. In addition, useful by-product streams of nitric acid, sulfuric acid, and feed stock for mercury production may be isolated.","Methods and apparatus for controlling emissions have been described. The methods utilize hydrogen peroxide to reduce NOx, SOx and mercury (or other heavy metal) emissions. Continuous concentration of hydrogen peroxide to levels approaching or exceeding propellant-grade hydrogen peroxide facilitates increased system efficiency. By utilizing methods and apparatus in accordance with the invention, combustion flue gas streams can be treated for the removal of NOx, SOx and heavy metals, while isolating useful by-products streams of sulfuric acid and nitric acid as well as solids for the recovery of the heavy metals.","Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiment shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. Therefore, it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
