---
title: Process for recording, storing, and displaying discrete trial data
abstract: A method and process embodied in one or more computer software programs to record, store, and display discrete trial therapy data, to include a user interface to add and modify Student account information, to record Student performance data in a database, and to display Student performance data from a database. The method further includes: a user interface to add and modify curricular information in a database; a user interface to display curricular data, Student information, and performance data in user-selected formats; and a user interface to add and modify information about people or groups associated with the Student accounts in the database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06905883&OS=06905883&RS=06905883
owner: Mobile Thinking, LLC
number: 06905883
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040116
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","DESCRIPTION OF ATTACHED APPENDIX","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Not Applicable","Not Applicable","Not Applicable","The invention relates to a method and process embodied in one or more computer software programs to record, store, and display discrete trial therapy data. Discrete trial therapy (or, the discrete trial method) was developed by Ivar Iovaas at the University of California at Los Angeles. The process of providing discrete trial therapy services may be summarized as follows: a person providing services (hereinafter referred to as a Tutor) will meet with a person receiving services (hereinafter referred to as Student). The Tutor may select a \u201ccurriculum area\u201d (e.g., toys, letters, people, animals), a \u201ctarget\u201d associated with the selected curriculum area (e.g., if the curriculum area is \u201canimals,\u201d then possible targets may include: dog, cat, mouse, elephant), and a discriminative stimulus (Sd) that is relevant to the target (e.g., \u201cpoint to the _.\u201d, \u201cwhere is the _?\u201d, \u201cshow me the _.\u201d). The Tutor then makes a statement (or asks a question) that combines the selected Sd and the target (e.g., \u201cpoint to the mouse.\u201d). Each time that a statement is made (or a question is posed) is typically referred to as a \u201ctrial.\u201d A group of trials may be referred to as a \u201csession.\u201d The Tutor typically records a Student's response for each trial in the session. Tutors may vary the curriculum area, the target, and the Sd from session to session. The Tutor typically uses a paper-based form to record session and trial data, which may include: the Student's response to each trial, the date and approximate time of the session, the curriculum area, the target, the Sd, the Tutor's name, the Student's name, and any notes relevant to the session. Session data that is recorded on paper may be collected in a binder (or similar repository), and analyzed periodically.","Typically, discrete trial data is captured manually by Tutors, using pencil and paper. Pages of session data corresponding to an individual Student may be stored in binders, and aggregated data is typically heuristically derived from the raw data. Some data may be entered into a spreadsheet, but this effort is prone to error, and any quantitative results beyond basic arithmetic and statistics require sophisticated spreadsheet-programming techniques and knowledge.","The preferred embodiment seeks to obviate the inefficiencies and errors inherent in the manual recording of data by using a method that enables discrete data to be recorded directly into a database, whereupon it may be aggregated quickly and easily. The benefits to the proposed method are profound. Using a suitable user interface in the computer program, session data may be sorted by data, by curriculum area, by Tutor, by Student, and so on with a minimum of technical knowledge on the part of the user of the invention. Database queries may be filtered according to user-selected variables and displayed quickly and easily. Displayed results may be printed, or exported to a file. Weeks, months, and years of a Student's session data may be electronically archived with a few computer commands, helping to ensure compliance with any legal requirements to store Student data until a Student becomes a certain age.","There is an invention (U.S. Pat. No. 6,537,073, issued Mar. 25, 2003) that enables a use to deliver content to a learning disabled person, but the invention focuses on delivering content to a single user instead of enabling data recording for multiple Students. The inventor for this current application knows of no existing method, embodied in one or more computer software programs that enables a person or persons providing discrete trial therapy services to record, store, and display discrete trial data.","The present invention seeks to obviate the disadvantages and limitations of the described prior arrangements. In particular, the invention comprises one or more computer programs that facilitate the recording, storing and displaying of discrete trial data.","Discrete trial therapy services are typically delivered by privately owned companies (i.e., an agency) to its clientele of Students, or delivered through school systems. Students may visit an agency or a school to receive services, or a Tutor may visit the Student to provide services. For large numbers of Students, it is unwieldy and inefficient to monitor and manage session data over time.","In the preferred embodiment, a person who is using the invention uses one or more computer programs to create and modify user accounts for every Tutor who provides services to Students and for every for Student who receives services. A person may also use the invention to create and modify a library of curriculum areas, targets, and Sd's that may be used by a Tutor when providing services to a Student, and to record trial data on the computer.","Another aspect of the invention is a method for recording discrete trial data on a mobile computer. A Tutor uses this aspect of the invention to record session data while away from the computer in which the curriculum areas, targets, Sd's, accounts, and so on are stored.","Because the data recording may be conducted on a mobile device, there is an additional aspect of the invention that enables different computer programs of the invention to share and to exchange database contents, despite having the databases reside on computers using different operating systems and platforms. This enables an agency, or other group or individual that provides services, to record data on multiple mobile devices, and aggregate collected data into a database on a single computer.","Another aspect of the invention is a method for querying the aggregated data to display data that enable an agency, group, or individual that is providing services to provide more effective treatment and therapy.","Detailed descriptions of the preferred embodiment are provided herein. It is to be understood, however, that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore, specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system, structure or manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"110"},"In one embodiment, database  stores the Content that may be used during the delivery of therapy services. The Content may be a list of curriculum areas, lists of targets related to individual curriculum areas, and lists of Sd's related to individual curriculum areas. In the preferred embodiment, a user of the invention may create new Content and modify existing Content as needed.","In one embodiment, block  is a process in which the Tutor records data that may be related to the Student and to some Content. For example, the Tutor may record: the Tutor's own name, responses a Student may make with respect to specific content, the time that responses were recorded, the date on which responses were recorded, performance metrics (e.g., percent correct), textual notes, graphical notes, the specific Content that was used during the delivery of therapy services, and so on. As the data is recorded, using the procedure in block , it may be stored in database .","Database  is a repository of data recorded as a result of the procedure in block . Data in database  may contain references to accounts in database  and Content in database . Using the data in database , the user of the invention may display data using a process in block .","Block  is a process for displaying data from database . The displayed data may be results from predefined queries to the database, they may be statistical data generated by current or previous queries, or they may be results to queries that allow for the user of the invention to filter data according to user-selected parameters. For example, the user may display progress results for one or more Students, organize data according to different criteria, display raw data, and display cumulative time spent in delivering therapy services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"Computer  includes conventional computer electronics including a motherboard containing the processor and an associated chip set, a communications bus, a user input device (e.g., mouse), a display device (e.g., a screen or monitor), a power supply and various interface and drive electronics. In one embodiment, computer  is a processor configured to perform specific tasks. The computer  may have a configuration based on Intel Corporation's family of microprocessors, such as the Pentium family and Microsoft Corporation's Windows operating systems such as Windows 98, Windows Millennium Edition, Windows 2000, or Windows XP.","It is contemplated, however, that the computer  can be implemented with a wide range of computer platforms using conventional general purpose single chip or multichip microprocessors, digital signal processors, embedded microprocessors, microcontrollers and the like. It is also contemplated that the computer  may be implemented with a wide range of operating systems such as Unix, Linux, Microsoft DOS, Microsoft CE, Macintosh OS, OS\/2 and the like.","In one embodiment, the system comprised of database , database , block , database , and block  may be installed on only computer . In another embodiment, any combination of databases , database , block , database , and block  may be installed on any combination of computer , networked computer , and mobile device .","Computer  may be substantially similar to computer  with regard to hardware and operating system. In one embodiment, Computer  and computer  may be connected by a communications network  such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), TCP\/IP, 802.11, Ultra Wide Band, Bluetooth, and so on, that provide continually available network connectivity between computer  and computer .","Computer  may be a computer device that may not have continually available network connectivity with computer , and instead exchanges data with computer  periodically. Computer  may need to store data in a form and format that may be consistent with the form and format of data stored on computer . It is contemplated that mobile device  may be implemented with a wide range of platforms designed for mobile computing, using conventional devices such as handheld computers, data-enabled mobile phones, smart phones, data-enabled watches, pagers, Blackberry-type devices, and so on, running operating systems such as the Palm OS, Windows Pocket PC, Windows XP Tablet PC Edition, Symbian, Linux, and so on. Data may be exchanged between mobile device  and computer  via a data exchange procedure in block . The procedure in block  may be specific to the configuration of the mobile device . For example, if the mobile device  is a Palm OS compatible device, data between mobile device  and compute  may be exchanged via infrared beaming, Bluetooth, USB cable, or an SDIO card. Regardless of the type of mobile device , in one embodiment, block  must enable data to be exchanged between mobile device  and computer .","In one embodiment, database , database  and database  may reside on a hard drive of computer , and block  may be an input method enabled on computer  that allows data from database  and database  to be visible on computer  so that data may be recorded via block , the results of which may be stored on computer . In another embodiment, the system on computer  may be a multi-user application (such as on the CYTRIX system) so that all data resides on computer . In another embodiment, database , database , and input method  are copied periodically to computer  by network , so that if computer  creates a database , then database  may be copied back to computer .","In the preferred embodiment, modifications and updates to database , database , and database  are enabled from only computer, , although copies or subsets of database , database , and database  may exist on computer , on mobile computer , or both.","In another embodiment, copies of database , database  and database  may be sent to mobile device  during data exchange . Remote device  may be enabled to store subsets of databases  and  and has installed on it data input method . As data is collected on mobile device , performance data (data which will be later added to database ) is created. The next time computer  and mobile device  exchange data via block , updated copies of database , database  and database  may be sent from computer  to mobile device  and a database  may be sent from mobile device  to computer  where it is aggregated with previous data.","In another embodiment, block  may be enabled on both computer  and mobile device , on both computer  and computer , or on all of computer , computer , and mobile device .","In one embodiment, database  may reside on the hard drive of computer  and the display procedure in block  may be enabled on computer . In another embodiment, the display procedure in block  may be enabled on computer , which may query database  on computer  over network . In another embodiment, the display procedure in block  may be enabled on computer , which may query a copy of database  that resides on the hard drive of computer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"310"},"At block  the computer user may be presented with a method for inputting data into a computer, (e.g., an onscreen form) that may present the user with options for providing data relevant to the user account. The input method may contain any combinations of text fields to receive text, pulldown menus to choose from short lists of predetermined data options (e.g. months of the year), radio buttons to force the user to choose between or among sets of options (e.g. male or female), check boxes to indicate whether a choice is selected or not selected, and so on. The fields that are provided in block  may be different for different types of users. Block  may contain certain fields if the computer user is seeking to create a Tutor account, and block  may contain certain other fields if the user is seeking to create a Student account.","At block , the user of the invention provides data into block . The data corresponds to the person for whom the account is being created. In one embodiment, the computer user may be required to provide certain data to be able to create the account, whereas some data may be optionally provided. In one embodiment, the user of the invention may later modify some data that may have been supplied in block , and in other embodiments of the invention, the user may not modify any of the data that may have been supplied in block .","Proceeding to block , the user of the invention may elect to save and store the data supplied in block , or discard the data supplied in block . If the user elects to discard the data supplied in block , no new user account is created, no new database record is created, the new form closes (block ), and the user of the invention proceeds to block . The user of the invention may elect to save the data supplied in block , with the intention of creating a new user account in a database. If the user of the invention elects to save the data and create the account, the process proceeds to block .","In block , the process evaluates the data supplied in block  to determine whether the data that is required in block  is present. In one embodiment, it may be required to provide a first and last name for the user for whom the account is being created. In another embodiment, it may be required to provide a first name, a last name, and an alphanumeric username. Further, the data requirements may be different for different types of accounts. In one embodiment, the same data requirement may be applied to all accounts irrespective of the account type. In another embodiment, there may be one set of data requirements for one account type and a different set of data requirements for other account types. If the user of the invention supplies data that meets the data requirements for the type of account being created, the process proceeds to block . If the data requirements are not met at the time the user attempts to save the data and create the account, the user is returned to block  to provide the remainder of the required data.","In block , the process evaluates the data supplied in block  to determine whether the data meets uniqueness criteria determined in the embodiment. In one embodiment, uniqueness may be achieved when the computer user seeking to create the new account provides in block  an alphanumeric name\u2014assuming the embodiment provides this field in block \u2014for the new account that is not identical to an alphanumerical name for an account that has been previously created. This is not unlike AOL not allowing any two people to have the same email address, or a telephone company not allowing two different cell phones to have the same phone number. In another embodiment, uniqueness may be achieved by ensuring that the combination of the first and last names of the user account is not identical to the combination of the first and last name of an existing user. Further, the uniqueness requirements may be different for different types of accounts. In one embodiment, the uniqueness requirement may be applied to all accounts irrespective of the account type. In another embodiment, there may be a set of uniqueness requirements for one account type and a different set of requirements for other account types. If the user of the invention supplies sufficient data to meet the uniqueness requirements for the type of account being created, the process proceeds to block . If the uniqueness requirements are not met, the user is returned to block  to edit or provide data to satisfy the uniqueness requirements defined in the embodiment.","In block , because sufficient data have been supplied to meet the requirement criteria (block ) for the type of account being created, and because the account meets the uniqueness criteria (block ) for the type of account being created, the data that the user of the invention supplied in block  may be saved and stored in database .","The process ends at block , whether a new account was created or not.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"In one embodiment, block  may be a scrolling list of the user accounts that have been previously created, with each row in the scrolling list corresponding to a single account.","In one embodiment, additional data corresponding to the account may be displayed in the row. For example, if the input method in block  provides a field for a telephone number, and the user of the invention supplies that information, one embodiment of the invention may list the phone number in the row in list .","Block  is a mechanism to enable the user of the invention to create a new account. The mechanism may be any combination of: a button that the user clicks with a mouse, a command that the user of the invention invokes by pressing one or more keyboard keys, a command that is selected from a menu, and so on. When the user of the invention elects to add a new account, the process described in  is followed.","Block  is a mechanism to enable the user of the invention to modify an existing account. That is, the user of the invention may edit data that already exists in an account, or may add new data that was not previously when the account was originally created. The mechanism in block  may be a button that the user of the invention clicks with a mouse, a command that the user of the invention invokes by pressing one or more keyboard keys, a command that is selected from a menu, and so on. In one embodiment, the user of the invention would select an account, then invoke the process to modify the account. When the user elects to modify an existing account, the process described in  is followed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","520","410","530","530","320","540","540","330"]},"Proceeding to block , the user of the invention may elect to save and store the modified information and\/or the newly provided information. While the user of the invention is modifying data in the account, the original account data may not be modified until the user elects to save the modifications. If the user of the invention does not elect to save and store the information, the newly added data is discarded in block , the input method closes in block , and the procedure ends in block . Any data that was provided in block  may be discarded so that the account being modified remains unchanged at block . If the user of the invention elect to save and store the information, the account information is updated in block , the data is saved to database , the input method closes in block , and the procedure ends in block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"In one embodiment, the user of the invention supplies in block  a name for the curriculum area. The name may contain letters, numbers, and symbols. There may be a limit to the number of characters a user of the invention can supply in block .","In one embodiment, the user of the invention supplies in block  a mastery level for the curriculum area. In one embodiment, a mastery level may be a single number, representing a percent between 0 and 100; this number may be used to determine if the percent correct recorded during a session (see ) is greater than or equal to the percent correct assigned to the mastery level. In another embodiment, the mastery level may be a series of numbers, each corresponding to a different gradation of success demonstrated by the Student.","Block  shows, in one embodiment, a list of the targets that have been created. The list of targets that are created are, in this embodiment, associated with the curriculum area named in block .","A new target may be created by invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When block  is invoked, an input method (e.g., a small onscreen window) may appear that enables the user to provide in the name of the new target. In the preferred embodiment, the user is asked to indicate whether to save or discard the name of the new target. In the preferred embodiment, no two targets associated with a single curriculum area may have the same name. That is, a user may not create a new target that has the same name as existing target.","A target that appears in the list may be renamed by selecting the target and invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When a target is selected from the list, and block  is invoked, an input method (e.g., a small onscreen window) may appear that displays the target name in an editable text field. The user may elect to change the name of the target. In the preferred embodiment, the user is asked to indicate whether to save or discard the changed name. In the preferred embodiment, no two targets associated with a single curriculum area may have the same name. That is, a user may not rename an existing target so that it has the same name as another existing target.","A target that appears in the list may be deleted from the list by selecting the target and invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When a target is selected from the list, and block  is invoked, the target is removed from the target list.","Block  shows, in one embodiment, a list of the Sd's that have been created. The list of Sd's that are created are, in this embodiment, associated with the curriculum area named in block .","A new Sd may be created by invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When block  is invoked, an input method (e.g., a small onscreen window) may appear that enables the user to type in the name of the new Sd. In the preferred embodiment, the user is asked to indicate whether to save or discard the name of the new Sd. In the preferred embodiment, no two Sd's associated with a single curriculum area may have the same name. That is, a user may not create a new Sd that has the same name as existing Sd.","An Sd that appears in the list may be renamed by selecting the Sd and invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When an Sd is selected from the list, and block  is invoked, an input method (e.g., a small onscreen window) may appear that displays the Sd name in an editable text field. The user may elect to change the name of the Sd. In the preferred embodiment, the user is asked to indicate whether to save or discard the changed name. In the preferred embodiment, no two Sd's associated with a single curriculum area may have the same name. That is, a user may not rename an existing Sd so that it has the same name as another existing Sd.","An Sd that appears in the list may be deleted from the list by selecting the Sd and invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. When a target is selected from the list, and block  is invoked, the Sd is removed from the Sd list.","The user of the invention may elect to save the curriculum area name, any mastery level data that may have been provided, any targets that may have been provided, and any Sd's that may have been provided. In one embodiment, the aforementioned data is not saved to database  until and unless the user invokes block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. In the preferred embodiment, prior to invoking block , all the data that was supplied would reside in the computer's random access memory (RAM), or in a temporary file. When the user of the invention elects to save the aforementioned data, the data are transferred from RAM (or the temporary file) to database . In one embodiment, users may not create a new curriculum area whose name is identical to the name of an existing curriculum area.","The user may elect to discard the curriculum area name, any mastery level data that may have been added, any targets that may have been added, and any Sd's that may have been added by invoking block , which may be invoked by clicking a button, selecting a menu item, pressing a combination of keyboard keys, and so on. If the user of the invention elects to discard the data, no new information is added to database  and the form for creating the curriculum area, the targets, the Sd's, and the mastery level may be closed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["6","6","615","660","6","705"]},"Block  may provides the user of the invention an opportunity to add or modify the mastery level, as defined in FIG. . In the preferred embodiment, block  displays a list of targets that were previously created using the graphical user interface described in FIG. . In the preferred embodiment, block  displays a list of targets that were previously created using the graphical user interface described in FIG. .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["10","120","120","240","120"]},"The user of the invention starts at block . In , there is a list of user accounts, some or all of which may be Student accounts. In one embodiment, the user of the invention may use a typical mouse input device or a keyboard connected to computer  to select a single Student account in block . In another embodiment, the user of the invention may select more than one Student account. Proceeding to block , the user of the invention may see a list of the currently defined curriculum areas in database . The list may appear in an onscreen scrolling window in block .","In block , the user of the invention may close the window that displays the list of curriculum areas in block . If the user of the invention closes the window, proceed to block .","Proceeding to block , where, in one embodiment, the user of the invention selects a single curriculum area. In another embodiment, the user of the invention may select more than one curriculum area. In one embodiment, there may be a user interface mechanism in block  that enables the user of the invention to identify whether the curriculum areas selected in block  are assigned or unassigned to the Student(s) selected in block . This user interface mechanism may take the form of a check box, where, in one embodiment, curriculum areas that are checked are associated with the selected Student Accounts and those curriculum areas whose check boxes are not checked are not associated with the selected Student account. When the user of the invention finishes identifying the associations between the curriculum area(s) and the selected Student(s), the window in block  may be closed, and the procedure continue to block .","In the preferred embodiment, the user of the invention may associate a subset of the curriculum areas with Students. In the preferred embodiment, if a curriculum area is not assigned to a Student, none of the targets or Sd's associated with the Curriculum Area are associated with the Student. In another embodiment, the user of the invention may be able to associate individual Sd's and individual targets with selected Students.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["110","120","120","240","120"]},"The user of the invention starts at block . In , the user of the invention creates new curriculum areas, which, in one embodiment, may be listed in a scrolling window, in a manner not unlike how accounts are listed in FIG. . In one embodiment, the user of the invention may use a typical mouse input device or a keyboard connected to computer  to select a curriculum area in block . In another embodiment, the user of the invention may select more than one curriculum area. Proceeding to block , the user of the invention may see a list of the currently defined curriculum areas in database . The list may appear in an onscreen scrolling window in block .","In block , the user of the invention may close the window that displays the list of Students in block . If the user of the invention closes the window, proceed to block .","Proceeding to block , where in one embodiment, the user of the invention selects a single Student account. In another embodiment, the user of the invention may select more than one Student account. In one embodiment, there may be a user interface mechanism in block  that enables the user of the invention to identify whether the Student account(s) selected in block  are assigned or unassigned to curriculum area(s) selected in block . This user interface mechanism may take the form of a check box, where, in one embodiment, Student accounts that are checked are associated with the selected curriculum area and those Student accounts whose check boxes are not checked are not associated with the selected curriculum area. When the user of the invention finishes identifying the associations between the selected curriculum area(s) and the Student account(s), the window in block  may be closed, and the procedure continue to block .","In the preferred embodiment, the user of the invention may associate a subset of the Student accounts with curriculum areas. In the preferred embodiment, if a curriculum area is not assigned to a Student, none of the targets or Sd's associated with the Curriculum Area are associated with the Student. In another embodiment, the user of the invention may be able to associate individual Sd's and individual targets with selected Students.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["240","210","220","1010","11","1015","110","1020","1015","1075","1015","1025"]},"In block , the Tutor may identify himself or herself by selecting his or her name, or account identifier, from an onscreen list whose contents may be populated by a subset of database . If a test in block  determines that the list in block  is empty, any future recorded results may not be assigned to any Tutor and so the procedure may proceed to its conclusion at block . If the list is nonempty, the Tutor may select his or her name from the list and proceed to block .","At block  the Tutor may proceed with data recording. In one embodiment, this procedure is a loop wherein a Tutor may continue to provide service to the same Student identified in block  without having to re-choose the name or identifier of the Student. If the Tutor elects not to continue at block , the procedure may terminate at block . If the Tutor elects to continue at block , the procedure continues to block .","In block , the Tutor selects the Content which will be used during the delivery of therapy services. This may include selecting a curriculum area, one or more targets, and an Sd from database . Block  is detailed in FIG. . Proceeding to block , the Tutor selects a type of therapy. One type of therapy may allow for the use of targets as distractors; another type of therapy may not allow for the use of distractors. Proceeding to block , the Tutor may record Student response data; block  is detailed in FIG. .","After a Tutor records response data in block , the Tutor may decide in block  whether to save the data recorded in block , or whether to discard it. If the Tutor elects in block  to save the data, a database record may be written to database , which may include: the Tutor account identified in block , the Student account identified in block , the Content selected in block , the therapy type selected in block , the response data recorded in block , and the time and date that data was recorded. The system time and date for the computer on which block  is run may be affixed to data recorded in block . After the recorded data is recorded in block , the procedure returns to block , where the Tutor may elect to continue to record new data or temporarily conclude the delivery of therapy services at block .","If the If the Tutor elects not to save the data in block , no database record is written and the procedure continues to block , where the Tutor may elect to continue to record new data or temporarily conclude the delivery of therapy services at block . Data that is recorded in block  and discarded in block  may not be added to database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1015","1025","1040","1045","1050","1110"]},"Block  may consist of four parts: there may be a list of the targets chosen in block  (shown on the left); there may be an input method for capturing the responses, which may be Correct, Incorrect, Non-responsive, and Prompted (an array of C, I, N, and P shown in the middle); there may be a display of metrics (shown on the right); and there may be a tracking mechanism that increments how many responses have been recorded (at the bottom of block ). The metrics may display the percent correct of each target.","The input method displayed in block  may be an array of buttons, with each row of the array corresponding to a target and each column of the array corresponding to a response of either C (correct), I (incorrect), N (non-responsive), and P (prompted). The Tutor may click any button (or use a similar input method) in the array to associate a response type to a target. Each time a response is recorded, the tracking mechanism indicates that a responses has been recorded. In one embodiment, a row of empty rectangles indicates the maximum number of possible responses, and each time a response is recorded, the left-most empty rectangle becomes filled. In one embodiment, there is a small diamond that may be positioned over any of the black-filled rectangles or over the leftmost white-filled rectangle. If the diamond is positioned above the Nth black rectangle, the array entry corresponding to the Nth response is displayed. A Tutor may change a previously recorded response. If the diamond is positioned over the leftmost white-filled rectangle, then the array of C, I, N, and P serve as an input method to record the Nth response. The Tutor may click either triangle to move the diamond laterally. The metrics on the right side of block  may measure the percent of recorded responses that a Correct for the corresponding target.","The metrics in block  may display the percent of all responses that are Correct, as recorded in block , and it may display the mastery level, if it is defined in block .","In one embodiment, there is Notes button  than enables an input method that a Tutor may use to record notes that become associated with the current set of responses.","The done button in block  may enable a Tutor to temporarily conclude recording responses and save the recorded responses, as described in block .","The cancel button in block  may enable a Tutor to temporarily conclude recording responses and discard the recorded responses, as described in block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["120","1210"]},"In the preferred embodiment, there is a set of Sd's and a set of targets associated in the database with each curriculum area. So, in one embodiment, it may be necessary to display a list of curriculum areas from database , in a list in block , which, after one is selected, will determine which set of Sd's and which set of targets are available to choose from later. The list of curriculum areas may appear in one of several different ways onscreen; for example, a list of the curriculum areas may appear in a popup menu, the list may appear in a scrolling window, on so on. The list of curriculum areas may be empty or nonempty. In the preferred embodiment, if a test in block  determines that the list of curriculum areas is empty, then no curriculum area is available, and hence no corresponding set of Sd's and no corresponding set of targets may be available, and there may be no Content about which to record data. So, if the list of curriculum areas is empty, proceed to block .","If a test in block  determines that the list of curriculum areas in block  is nonempty, then the user of the invention may choose a curriculum area in block . In the preferred embodiment, the list of targets that are displayed in block  may be dependent on the curriculum area that was chosen in block . If a test in block  determines that the list of targets (corresponding to the Curriculum Area selected in block ) is empty, then the user of the invention may display the list of curriculum areas again in block . If a test in block  determines that the list of targets in block  is nonempty, the user of the invention may select one or more targets in block  and proceed to display a list of Sd's in block .","In the preferred embodiment, the list of Sd's that are displayed in block  may be dependent on the curriculum area that was chosen in block . If a test in block  determines that the list of Sd's (corresponding to the Curriculum Area selected in block ) is empty, then the user of the invention may display the list of curriculum areas again in block . If a test in block  determines that the list of Sd's in block  is nonempty, the user of the invention may select one or more Sd's in block  and proceed to block .","In another embodiment, the user may select an Sd before selecting one or more targets.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["140","220","210","240","140","140","8"]},"The user of the invention starts at block  by initiating a request to see a list of available report types in block . This request may be conveyed to the computer by using a mouse, by pressing a sequence or combination of keys on a computer keyboard, and so on. One report type may be distinguished from another by the database query that is used to generate the report or the type of data that is displayed in the report. For example, a report that displays the amount of time a Student has received discrete trial therapy services may be a different report type than a report that displays a subset of raw data from database . There may be any number of report types available in the embodiment.","In block , the user may see a list of different report types. At block , block , block , and block , the user of the invention may elect to end the procedure and proceed to block . In block , the user of the invention may choose a report type. In block , the user of the invention may choose report parameters. These parameters may affect the database query that may build the report; examples of parameters include, choosing a specific data range, filtering out data for one or more Student accounts, and filtering out data for one or more Tutor account.","After the parameters are chosen, the user of the invention may see the results displayed in block . The results may be based on the report type selected in block  and the parameters chosen in block . The data may be displayed on a computer screen or may be sent to a printer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 10"],"b":["210","240","240","110","240","110","120","240","210","240","240","240","240"]},"After the procedure to exchange data begins in block , a test is conducted in block . The test may determine whether data may be exchanged between computer  and mobile device . The criteria for the test may include: determining whether there is a computer program present on computer  which may exchange data with the mobile device ; determining whether the data stored on mobile device  has a compatible data structure as that of database ; determining whether an identifier on mobile device  has a matching identifier on computer , and so on. If all of the criteria in the embodiment are not met in block  then the procedure for exchanging data is terminated and the procedure continues to block .","If all the criteria in the embodiment are met in the test in block , then data may be exchanged at block . Exchanging data may include moving or copying some or all of database , database , and\/or database  between mobile device  and computer .","In the preferred embodiment, a Student identifier is assigned to mobile device , and the following data is copied from computer  to mobile device : Tutor account information from database , content from database  that corresponds (using the procedures in FIG.  and ) to the Student identifier that is assigned to mobile device . The data that may be copied or moved from mobile device  to computer  may include: the Student identifier assigned to mobile device , and Student's performance data that conforms to the format of database  (if it has been created on mobile device  according to the procedure in FIG. ).","In the preferred embodiment, the performance data (on mobile device ) that conforms to the data structure in database  may be added to database  on computer  (via data exchange procedure ), so that database  on computer , as different performance data is added to it from different mobile devices , represents a master repository of Student performance data.","While the invention has been described in connection with a preferred embodiment, it is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular form set forth, but on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The drawings constitute a part of this specification and include exemplary embodiments to the invention, which may be embodied in various forms. It is to be understood that in some instances various aspects of the invention may be shown exaggerated or enlarged to facilitate an understanding of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["210","240"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
