---
title: Methods and compositions for the inhibition of HIV-1 replication
abstract: This invention relates to methods and compositions for the attenuation of HIV-1 replication in human cells, and especially in human macrophages. The invention particularly concerns the use of inhibitors of P21 (CDKNIA) expression to attenuate such replication. The invention particularly concerns the use of antisense P21 oligonucleotides, siRNA and/or 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien28-oic (CDDO) to attenuate such replication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08288439&OS=08288439&RS=08288439
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services
number: 08288439
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041103
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","Example 1","Materials and Methods for the Analysis of Temporal Events Associated with the Initial Virus-Macrophage Encounter","Example 2","Results of the Analysis of Temporal Events Associated with the Initial Virus-Macrophage Encounter","Example 3","Analysis of Gene Silencing","Example 4","Analysis of Effect of Vpr on p21 Expression","Example 5","Analysis of Temporal Events Associated with the Initial Virus-Macrophage Encounter"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Patent application Ser. No. 60\/516,734 (filed on Nov. 4, 2004), which application is herein incorporated by reference.","This invention was funded by the National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services. The United States Government has certain rights to this invention.","This invention relates to methods and compositions for the attenuation of HIV-1 replication in human cells, and especially in human macrophages. The invention particularly concerns the use of inhibitors of P21 (CDKN1A) expression to attenuate such replication. The invention particularly concerns the use of antisense P21 oligonucleotides and\/or 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic (CDDO) to attenuate such replication.","Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) is the causative agent of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and related disorders (Gallo, R. C. et al. (1983) \u201cIsolation of human T-cell leukemia virus in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS),\u201d Science 220(4599):865-7; Barre-Sinoussi, F. et al. \u201cIOA T-LRFA PARFAIDS(AIDS),\u201d (1983) Science 220:868-870; Gallo, R. et al. (1984) \u201cFDAIOCR(HTLV-III) FPWAIDS AARFAIDS,\u201d Science 224:500-503; Teich, N. et al. (1984) \u201cRNA TV,\u201d Weiss, R. et al. (eds.) Cold Spring Harbor Press (NY) pp. 949-956).","T lymphocytes and macrophages expressing CD4 and the seven transmembrane chemokine co-receptors CXCR4 and CCR5 are susceptible to HIV-1 infection (Berger, E. A. et al. (1999) \u201cCRAHIV-1 C; RIVE, T, AD,\u201d Annu. Rev. Immunol. 17:657-700). In contrast to CD4 lymphocytes, HIV-1 infected macrophages can resist cell death despite viral infection. Viruses within and shed from infected macrophages may serve as a reservoir for the infection of additional cells (Wahl, S. M. et al. (1996) In: MFHIV I, pages 303-336; Orenstein, J. W. (2001) \u201cTMIHIV I,\u201d Immunobiology 204(5):598-602; Balestra, E. et al. (2001) \u201cMa: A CRFHIVITB,\u201d J. Biol. Regul. Homeost. Agents 15:272-276; Igarashi, T. et al. (2001) \u201cMATPRASHVLIRMATDOCD4+ T CBA HPSIV\/HIV T1 C(SHIV): IFHIV-1 IOH,\u201d Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98:658-663; Garbuglia, A. R. et al., (2001) \u201cDHIV DNA (HAART): 1 ,\u201d J Chemother 13:188-194).","The persistence of HIV during highly active antiviral therapy, and poor susceptibility of macrophages to antiviral therapy (Igarashi, T. et al. (2001) \u201cMATPRASHVLIRMATDOCD4+ T CBA HPSIV\/HIV T1 C(SHIV): IFHIV-1 IOH,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:658-63; Garbuglia, A. R. et al. (2001) \u201cDOVLIPAHIV DNA ILDHAAT(HAART): HVBIMA1 YOT,\u201d J Chemother 13, 188-94) has intensified the interest in characterizing the mechanisms underlying infection and replication in this cell population.","Attempts to treat HIV infection have focused on the development of drugs that disrupt the viral infection and replication cycle (see, Mitsuya, H. et al. (1991) \u201cTTOHIV-RD,\u201d FASEB J. 5:2369-2381). Such intervention could potentially inhibit the binding of HIV to cell membranes, the reverse transcription of the HIV RNA genome into DNA, the exit of the virus from the host cell and infection of new cellular targets, or inhibition of viral enzymes (see, U.S. Pat. No. 6,475,491). Thus, for example, soluble CD4 has been developed in an effort to competitively block the binding of HIV to lymphocytes (Smith, D. H. et al. (1987) \u201cBOHIV-1 IBA S, SFOTCD4 A,\u201d Science 238:1704-1707; Schooley, R. et al. (1990) \u201cRSCD4 TIPWTAIS(AIDS) AAIDS-RC. A PI-II EDT,\u201d Ann. Int. Med. 112:247-253; Kahn, J. O. et al. (1990) \u201cTSAPORSCD4 (CD4) ISWTAIS(AIDS) AAIDS-RC. A P1 S,\u201d Ann. Int. Med. 112:254-261; Yarchoan, R. et al. (1989) Proc. VInt. Conf. on AIDS, p 564, MCP 137). Similarly, the ability of antisense HIV-1 oligonucleotides to inhibit viral replication has been investigated (Maeda N et al. (1998) \u201cIOHT-CLVT1 RBAEO,\u201d Biochem Biophys Res Commun 243(1): 109-112).","Unfortunately, although considerable effort has been expended to design effective therapeutics, no curative anti-retroviral drugs against AIDS currently exist. All available therapies are marred by substantial adverse side effects, and by the capacity of HIV to rapidly mutate into forms that are refractive to treatment (Miller, V. et al. (2001) \u201cMPITHIV GAC-RFNANADE,\u201d Antivir Ther. 6 Suppl 3:25-44; Lerma, J. G. et al. (2001) \u201cROHIVT1 TRTAPI: GAPT,\u201d J Clin Virol. 21(3):197-212; O'Brien, W. A. (2000) \u201cRARTI,\u201d Clin Infect Dis. 30 Suppl 2:S185-92; Wain-Hobson, S. (1996) \u201cRTGORV,\u201d Trends Microbiol. 4(4):135-41; Lange J. (1995) \u201cCAT. BTTF,\u201d Drugs. 49 Suppl 1:32-40). Thus, a continuing need exists for safe and effective anti-HIV therapeutics. The present invention is directed to this and other needs.","By monitoring virus production by multiple parameters including RNA, p24 antigen expression and ultra-structural detection of viral particles it has been possible to characterize the temporal events associated with the initial virus-macrophage encounter leading to massive viral replication. In parallel, macrophage changes in gene expression subsequent to virus-receptor interaction have been compared to uninfected cells by cDNA expression array. Analysis of 1200 genes at multiple intervals from initial HIV-1 binding through levels of massive replication (10-14 days) reveals a profile of gene modulation, which favored virus life cycle, and could influence recruitment and infection of additional HIV-1 host cells. One gene found to be consistently expressed following virus binding and re-expressed at the peak of HIV-1 replication is CDKN1A, also known as p21, Cip1 (Cdk interacting protein), or Waf1 (wild type p53-activated fragment), a protein associated with cell cycle regulation, anti-apoptotic response and cell differentiation (Dotto, G. P. (2000) \u201c21(WAF1\/C1): MTA BTTCC?\u201d Biochim Biophys Acta 1471: M43-56). Importantly, modulation of p21 in vitro results in suppression of viral replication, and implicated this cellular protein as an interventional target.","In contrast to CD4 lymphocytes, HIV-1 infected macrophages typically resist cell death, support viral replication, and facilitate HIV-1 transmission. To elucidate how the virus commandeers macrophage intracellular machinery for its benefit, HIV-1 infected human monocyte-derived macrophages have been analyzed for viral-induced gene transcription by cDNA expression array. HIV-1 infection induces the transcriptional regulation of genes associated with host defense, signal transduction, apoptosis and cell cycle, including cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. CDKN1A\/p21 expression follows a bimodal pattern with maximum levels occurring during HIV-1 replication. Treatment of macrophages with p21 anti-sense oligonucleotides or siRNA directed against p21 inhibits HIV-1 replication. Furthermore, the synthetic triterpenoid and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARg) ligand, 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO), which influences p21 expression, drives a dose dependent suppression of viral replication. These data implicate p21 as a pivotal macrophage facilitator of viral replication. Moreover, regulators of p21, such as CDDO, provide an interventional approach to modulate HIV-1 replication.","This invention thus relates to methods and compositions for the attenuation of immunodeficiency virus replication in cells, and especially in macrophages. The invention particularly concerns the use of inhibitors of P21 (CDKN1A) expression to attenuate such replication. The invention particularly concerns the use of antisense P21 oligonucleotides, siRNA and\/or 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic (CDDO) to attenuate such replication. The invention finds use in the treatment of AIDS, and in the treatment of lymphoma, especially in HIV-infected individuals.","In detail, the invention concerns a method of attenuating the transmission or infection of an immunodeficiency virus into a cell comprising providing to the cell an inhibitor of p21, wherein the inhibitor is provided in an amount and duration sufficient to cause an attenuation of at least 50% in the transmission or infection of the virus relative to an untreated cell. The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such method wherein the immunodeficiency virus is a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and the cell is a human cell; wherein the immunodeficiency virus is a feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), and the cell is a feline cell; or wherein the immunodeficiency virus is a simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), and the cell is a simian cell.","The invention further provides a method of treating AIDS in an individual, comprising providing to HIV-1 infected cells of said individual an amount of a p21 inhibitor sufficient to attenuate the propagation of HIV, wherein said inhibitor is provided in an amount and duration sufficient to cause an attenuation of at least 50% in said propagation of HIV relative to untreated cells.","The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such methods wherein the inhibitor of p21 is a polynucleotide, and especially wherein the polynucleotide is complementary to a portion of a p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule.","The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such methods wherein the p21 gene or p21 cDNA is of a human p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule, or of a non-human animal or is a variant of a non-human p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule.","The invention further concerns a method of treating AIDS in an individual, comprising providing to HIV-1 infected cells of the individual, or providing to HIV-1 suceptible cells of the individual prior to the infection of such cells by HIV-1, an amount of a p21 inhibitor sufficient to attenuate the propagation of HIV, wherein the inhibitor is provided in an amount and duration sufficient to cause an attenuation of at least 50% in the propagation of HIV relative to untreated cells.","The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such methods wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:4 (and in particular wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:8 or SEQ ID NO.:10) or at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:6 (and in particular wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:7 or SEQ ID NO.:9).","The invention further concerns the embodiments of the above methods wherein the inhibitor of p21 is a protein or organic molecule other than a polynucleotide, and in particular concerns the embodiment of such method wherein the inhibitor is 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO), or a salt or derivative thereof.","The invention further concerns a pharmaceutical composition comprising an inhibitor of p21 and an excipient or carrier, wherein the inhibitor is present in an amount sufficient to attenuate the propagation of HIV, wherein the inhibitor is present in the composition in an amount sufficient to cause an attenuation of at least 50% in the propagation of HIV relative to untreated cells.","The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such composition wherein the inhibitor of p21 is a polynucleotide, and especially wherein the polynucleotide is complementary to a portion of a p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule. The invention particularly concerns the embodiments of such compositions wherein the p21 gene or p21 cDNA is of a human p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule, or of a non-human animal or is a variant of a non-human p21 gene or p21 cDNA molecule. The invention further particularly concerns an inhibitor of an upstream or downstream modulator of p21 production or action (i.e., a p21 inhibitor molecule.","The invention further particularly concerns the embodiments of such compositions wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:4 (and in particular wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:8 or SEQ ID NO.:10) or at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:6 (and in particular wherein the polynucleotide comprises at least 10 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO.:7 or SEQ ID NO.:9).","The invention further concerns the embodiments of the above compositions wherein the inhibitor of p21 is a protein or organic molecule other than a polynucleotide, and in particular concerns the embodiment of such method wherein the inhibitor is 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO), or a salt or derivative thereof.","The present invention relates to methods and compositions for the attenuation of HIV-1 replication in human cells, and especially in human macrophages. As used herein, such \u201cattenuation\u201d is preferably of a magnitude sufficient to mediate a reduction of at least 50%, more preferably 60%, most preferably 80%, or greater in the replication, propagation or transmission of HIV.","The present invention derives in part from the recognition that the replication of human cells has been found to be tightly coordinated by the expression and interaction of an array of cell cycle regulatory proteins. Any of the genes described herein that are induced by HIV-1 are potentially able to serve as targets for achieving the inhibition of HIV-1. CDKN1A, also known as p21Cip1 (Cdk interacting protein), or Waf1 (wild type p53-activated fragment), is one of these proteins (Dotto, G. P. (2000) \u201cP21(WAF1\/Cip1): MTA BTTCC?,\u201d Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1471:M43-M56). The loss of CDKN1A expression has been observed in many tumor cells, suggesting a role for the protein in preventing malignant progression. Thus, in a preferred embodiment, the present invention contemplates that agents that inhibit p21 expression or function serve to inhibit HIV-1. Such agents include antibodies (including single chain immunoglobulins, chimeric antibodies, etc.) that are immunologically reactive with p21 (i.e., able to bind to p21 epitopes), molecules that interfere with p21 function (e.g., CDDO and its analogues), polynucleotides capable of inhibiting p21 transcription or translation (e.g., siRNA, antisense molecules, etc.), and p21 inhibitor molecules. All such molecules are inhibitors of p21, as that term is employed herein.","HIV-1 and p21 are discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,359,124; 5,965,722; 5,889,156; 6,548,657; 6,511,847; 6,489,163; 6,410,010; 6,379,965; 6,204,248; 6,133,444; 6,069,134; 5,866,698; 5,861,290; 5,834,440; 5,795,870; 5,766,882; 5,747,469; and 5,693,769.","Although macrophages express the requisite CD4 and chemokine co-receptors making them susceptible targets, and R5 viral variants are preferentially transmitted, it has remained a challenge to identify HIV-1 positive macrophages early after viral exposure in mucosal tissues (Schacker, T. et al. (2001) \u201cPIOT CILTDPAEHIVI,\u201d J Infect Dis 183:555-562) or in the absence of co-pathogens (Orenstein, J. M. et al. (1997) \u201cMAA SOHIV DOI,\u201d Science 276:1857-1861). When exposed to HIV-1, monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) bind and\/or internalize the virus, but the consequences of that interaction are ill defined. Whether the macrophages are triggered by this encounter to modify their phenotypic and functional repertoire or whether HIV-1 enters stealthily, and transiently remains unrecognized by the immune system, it is important to define the early stages when HIV-1 is gaining a foothold on the immune system and identify key signals which not only promote permissiveness for macrophage HIV-1 infection, but also promote replication.","One aspect of the present invention relates to the recognition that HIV-1 infection stimulates the expression of p21 (CDKN1A) protein in human macrophages (Vazquez, N. et al. (October 2002) \u201cHIV-1 Enhancement of CDKN1A (p21) in Human Macrophages Is Associated with Viral Replication,\u201d 5Intl. Workshop on HIV, Cells of Macrophage\/Dendritic Lineage and Other Reservoirs, Rome, Italy).","The Vpr gene product of HIV-1 has been found to prevent cell proliferation by activating p21 expression, suggesting that the upregulation of p21 by HIV-1 Vpr may have important consequences in HIV-1 pathogenesis (Chowdhury I. H. et al. (2003) \u201cHIV-1 VACCI21\/W1\/C1: PMOG2\/M CCA,\u201d Virol. 305:371-377). A similar relationship has been disclosed between p21 and HIV-1 Nef (Fackler, O. T. et al. (2000) \u201c21-AK1 PA CRICABN,\u201d Mol Cell Biol. 20:2619-2627; Hiipakka M et al. (2001) \u201cIOCFOHIV-1 NBASH3 D,\u201d Virol. 286:152-159; Nunn M F et al. (1996) \u201cHIVT1 NAWA MOTP21-AKF,\u201d J. Virol. 70:6157-6161; Renkema G H et al. (1999) \u201cIOTN-AKAP21-AK2,\u201d Curr Biol. 9:1407-1410).","Additionally, Clark, E. et al. disclosed that the treatments (such as gamma irradiation) that cause a loss of cell cycle control at the G\/S checkpoint cause HIV-1 infected cells to lose p21 function, and undergo apoptosis (Clark E et al. (2000) \u201cLOSS OF G(1)\/S CHECKPOINT IN HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS TYPE 1-INFECTED CELLS IS ASSOCIATED WITH A LACK OF CYCLIN-DEPENDENT KINASE INHIBITOR P21\/WAF1,\u201d J. Virol. 74:5040-5052). Gomez, T. et al. www.retroconference.org\/2002\/Posters\/13446.pdf; \u201cCYTOPLASMIC P21PROTECTS U937 PROMONOCYTIC CELLS FROM HIV MEDIATED APOPTOSIS\u201d) disclose that the administration of p21-antisense oligonucleotides to promonocytic cells suppressed p21 levels in the cells, and accelerated the death of the HIV-infected cells. The results are stated to indicate that p21 confers resistance to HIV-induced apoptosis in promonocytic cells, and to suggest a possible mechanism for the persistence of its infection in cells such as macrophages.","Antisense oligonucleotides of p21 have been used to affect cell-cycle transit in astrocytoma cells. (Jinbo Liu, et al. (2000) \u201cA-O21 (11) PI4-ME27(1) LGAC,\u201d Oncogene 19:661-669). The oligonucleotides had the sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20031:","5\u2032-ucc\u2003gcg\u2003ccc\u2003agc\u2003ucc-3\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"and",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},"SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20032:","5\u2032-ucc\u2003gcc\u2003cgc\u2003agc\u2003ucc-3\u2032."]}]}}}}},"The present invention thus particularly concerns the use of one or more p21 inhibitors to prevent or attenuate the infection of additional host cells, and as such to provide a therapy for AIDS and its simian and feline counterparts.","As used herein, the term \u201cp21 inhibitor\u201d is intended to denote any of a variety of molecules that function to suppress or prevent p21 activity. Such inhibitors can be, for example, transcriptional inhibitors, such as promoter blockers, RNAi molecules, antisense polynucleotides of the p21 gene or cDNA, or allelic or non-human species variants thereof. Alternatively, such molecules can comprise translational inhibitors of p21, molecules that inhibit or otherwise interfere with p21 function, etc.","As used herein, an allelic variant of a p21 polynucleotide is a polynucleotide having the sequence of a naturally occurring allele of the p21 gene or cDNA thereof, or of a non-naturally occurring polynucleotide that is 80% homologous, and more preferably 90% homologous, and most preferably comprises a sequence that has at least 10, and more preferably, at least 20 contiguous nucleotides that are identical in sequence to a portion of a naturally occurring p21 gene or cDNA. Examples of such sequences include NCBI accession Nos. BC000312 and BC013967. As used herein, a non-human species variant of a p21 polynucleotide is a polynucleotide having the sequence of the p21 gene or cDNA of a non-human animal, for example a mouse or rat. Examples of such sequences include NM 007669 and U24174.","Antisense molecules suitable for use in the present invention can be identified as polynucleotide molecules having a length of 10-250, or more preferably 10-150, and most preferably, 10-100 nucleotides that are complementary to a portion of SEQ ID NO.:3 (the human p21 gene, see Xiong, Y. et al. (1993) \u201c21 ,\u201d Nature 366:701-704 (1993); el-Deiry, W. S. et al. (1993) \u201cWAF1, 53 ,\u201d Cell 75:817-825 (1993); Harper, J. W. et al. (1993) \u201cT21 C-C1 G1 -,\u201d Cell 75:805-816) or allelic or non-human species variants thereof, especially the murine p21 gene (NM 007669).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.:\u20033:",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u2003\u20031","gctgccgaag\u2003tcagttcctt\u2003gtggagccgg\u2003agctgggcgc\u2003ggattcgccg",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003\u200351","aggcaccgag\u2003gcactcagag\u2003gaggtgagag\u2003agcggcggca\u2003gacaacaggg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003101","gaccccgggc\u2003cggcggccca\u2003gagccgagcc\u2003aagcgtgccc\u2003gcgtgtgtcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003151","ctgcgtgtcc\u2003gcgaggatgc\u2003gtgttcgcgg\u2003gtgtgtgctg\u2003cgttcacagg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003201","tgtttctgcg\u2003gcaggcgcca\u2003tgtcagaacc\u2003ggctggggat\u2003gtccgtcaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003251","acccatgcgg\u2003cagcaaggcc\u2003tgccgccgcc\u2003tcttcggccc\u2003agtggacagc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003301","gagcagctga\u2003gccgcgactg\u2003tgatgcgcta\u2003atggcgggct\u2003gcatccagga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003351","ggcccgtgag\u2003cgatggaact\u2003tcgactttgt\u2003caccgagaca\u2003ccactggagg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003401","gtgacttcgc\u2003ctgggagcgt\u2003gtgcggggcc\u2003ttggcctgcc\u2003caagctctac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003451","cttcccacgg\u2003ggccccggcg\u2003aggccgggat\u2003gagttgggag\u2003gaggcaggcg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003501","gcctggcacc\u2003tcacctgctc\u2003tgctgcaggg\u2003gacagcagag\u2003gaagaccatg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003551","tggacctgtc\u2003actgtcttgt\u2003acccttgtgc\u2003ctcgctcagg\u2003ggagcaggct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003601","gaagggtccc\u2003caggtggacc\u2003tggagactct\u2003cagggtcgaa\u2003aacggcggca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003651","gaccagcatg\u2003acagatttct\u2003accactccaa\u2003acgccggctg\u2003atcttctcca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003701","agaggaagcc\u2003ctaatccgcc\u2003cacaggaagc\u2003ctgcagtcct\u2003ggaagcgcga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003751","gggcctcaaa\u2003ggcccgctct\u2003acatcttctg\u2003ccttagtctc\u2003agtttgtgtg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003801","tcttaattat\u2003tatttgtgtt\u2003ttaatttaaa\u2003cacctcctca\u2003tgtacatacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003851","ctggccgccc\u2003cctgcccccc\u2003agcctctggc\u2003attagaatta\u2003tttaaacaaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003901","aactaggcgg\u2003ttgaatgaga\u2003ggttcctaag\u2003agtgctgggc\u2003atttttattt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003951","tatgaaatac\u2003tatttaaagc\u2003ctcctcatcc\u2003cgtgttctcc\u2003ttttcctctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1001","tcccggaggt\u2003tgggtgggcc\u2003ggcttcatgc\u2003cagctacttc\u2003ctcctcccca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1051","cttgtccgct\u2003gggtggtacc\u2003ctctggaggg\u2003gtgtggctcc\u2003ttcccatcgc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1101","tgtcacaggc\u2003ggttatgaaa\u2003ttcaccccct\u2003ttcctggaca\u2003ctcagacctg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1151","aattcttttt\u2003catttgagaa\u2003gtaaacagat\u2003ggcactttga\u2003aggggcctca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1201","ccgagtgggg\u2003gcatcatcaa\u2003aaactttgga\u2003gtcccctcac\u2003ctcctctaag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1251","gttgggcagg\u2003gtgaccctga\u2003agtgagcaca\u2003gcctagggct\u2003gagctgggga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1301","cctggtaccc\u2003tcctggctct\u2003tgataccccc\u2003ctctgtcttg\u2003tgaaggcagg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1351","gggaaggtgg\u2003ggtcctggag\u2003cagaccaccc\u2003cgcctgccct\u2003catggcccct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1401","ctgacctgca\u2003ctggggagcc\u2003cgtctcagtg\u2003ttgagccttt\u2003tccctctttg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1451","gctcccctgt\u2003accttttgag\u2003gagccccagc\u2003tacccttctt\u2003ctccagctgg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1501","gctctgcaat\u2003tcccctctgc\u2003tgctgtccct\u2003cccccttgtc\u2003ctttcccttc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1551","agtaccctct\u2003cagctccagg\u2003tggctctgag\u2003gtgcctgtcc\u2003cacccccacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1601","cccagctcaa\u2003tggactggaa\u2003ggggaaggga\u2003cacacaagaa\u2003gaagggcacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1651","ctagttctac\u2003ctcaggcagc\u2003tcaagcagcg\u2003accgccccct\u2003cctctagctg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1701","tgggggtgag\u2003ggtcccatgt\u2003ggtggcacag\u2003gcccccttga\u2003gtggggttat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1751","ctctgtgtta\u2003ggggtatatg\u2003atgggggagt\u2003agatctttct\u2003aggagggaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1801","cactggcccc\u2003tcaaatcgtc\u2003cagcgacctt\u2003cctcatccac\u2003cccatccctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1851","cccagttcat\u2003tgcactttga\u2003ttagcagcgg\u2003aacaaggagt\u2003cagacatttt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1901","aagatggtgg\u2003cagtagaggc\u2003tatggacagg\u2003gcatgccacg\u2003tgggctcata"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1951","tggggctggg\u2003agtagttgtc\u2003tttcctggca\u2003ctaacgttga\u2003gcccctggag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2001","gcactgaagt\u2003gcttagtgta\u2003cttggagtat\u2003tggggtctga\u2003ccccaaacac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2051","cttccagctc\u2003ctgtaacata\u2003ctggcctgga\u2003ctgttttctc\u2003tcggctcccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2101","atgtgtcctg\u2003gttcccgttt\u2003ctccacctag\u2003actgtaaacc\u2003tctcgagggc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2151","agggaccaca\u2003ccctgtactg\u2003ttctgtgtct\u2003ttcacagctc\u2003ctcccacaat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2201","gctgaatata\u2003cagcaggtgc\u2003tcaataaatg\u2003attcttagtg\u2003actttaaaaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2251","aaaaaaaaaa\u2003aaaaa"]}]}}]}}},"Preferred p21 inhibitors of the present invention thus include polynucleotide fragments of SEQ ID NO: 4 (the antisense complement of SEQ ID NO.:3), or allelic or non-human species variants thereof:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.:\u20034:",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u2003\u20031","tttttttttt\u2003tttttttttt\u2003aaagtcacta\u2003agaatcattt\u2003attgagcacc",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003\u200351","tgctgtatat\u2003tcagcattgt\u2003gggaggagct\u2003gtgaaagaca\u2003cagaacagta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003101","cagggtgtgg\u2003tccctgccct\u2003cgagaggttt\u2003acagtctagg\u2003tggagaaacg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003151","ggaaccagga\u2003cacatgggga\u2003gccgagagaa\u2003aacagtccag\u2003gccagtatgt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003201","tacaggagct\u2003ggaaggtgtt\u2003tggggtcaga\u2003ccccaatact\u2003ccaagtacac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003251","taagcacttc\u2003agtgcctcca\u2003ggggctcaac\u2003gttagtgcca\u2003ggaaagacaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003301","ctactcccag\u2003ccccatatga\u2003gcccacgtgg\u2003catgccctgt\u2003ccatagcctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003351","tactgccacc\u2003atcttaaaat\u2003gtctgactcc\u2003ttgttccgct\u2003gctaatcaaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003401","gtgcaatgaa\u2003ctggggaggg\u2003atggggtgga\u2003tgaggaaggt\u2003cgctggacga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003451","tttgaggggc\u2003cagtgtctcc\u2003ctcctagaaa\u2003gatctactcc\u2003cccatcatat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003501","acccctaaca\u2003cagagataac\u2003cccactcaag\u2003ggggcctgtg\u2003ccaccacatg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003551","ggaccctcac\u2003ccccacagct\u2003agaggagggg\u2003gcggtcgctg\u2003cttgagctgc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003601","ctgaggtaga\u2003actagggtgc\u2003ccttcttctt\u2003gtgtgtccct\u2003tccccttcca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003651","gtccattgag\u2003ctgggggtgg\u2003gggtgggaca\u2003ggcacctcag\u2003agccacctgg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003701","agctgagagg\u2003gtactgaagg\u2003gaaaggacaa\u2003gggggaggga\u2003cagcagcaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003751","ggggaattgc\u2003agagcccagc\u2003tggagaagaa\u2003gggtagctgg\u2003ggctcctcaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003801","aaggtacagg\u2003ggagccaaag\u2003agggaaaagg\u2003ctcaacactg\u2003agacgggctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003851","cccagtgcag\u2003gtcagagggg\u2003ccatgagggc\u2003aggcggggtg\u2003gtctgctcca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003901","ggaccccacc\u2003ttccccctgc\u2003cttcacaaga\u2003cagagggggg\u2003tatcaagagc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003951","caggagggta\u2003ccaggtcccc\u2003agctcagccc\u2003taggctgtgc\u2003tcacttcagg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1001","gtcaccctgc\u2003ccaaccttag\u2003aggaggtgag\u2003gggactccaa\u2003agtttttgat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1051","gatgccccca\u2003ctcggtgagg\u2003ccccttcaaa\u2003gtgccatctg\u2003tttacttctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1101","aaatgaaaaa\u2003gaattcaggt\u2003ctgagtgtcc\u2003aggaaagggg\u2003gtgaatttca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1151","taaccgcctg\u2003tgacagcgat\u2003gggaaggagc\u2003cacacccctc\u2003cagagggtac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1201","cacccagcgg\u2003acaagtgggg\u2003aggaggaagt\u2003agctggcatg\u2003aagccggccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1251","acccaacctc\u2003cgggagagag\u2003gaaaaggaga\u2003acacgggatg\u2003aggaggcttt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1301","aaatagtatt\u2003tcataaaata\u2003aaaatgccca\u2003gcactcttag\u2003gaacctctca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1351","ttcaaccgcc\u2003tagtttttgt\u2003ttaaataatt\u2003ctaatgccag\u2003aggctggggg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1401","gcagggggcg\u2003gccagggtat\u2003gtacatgagg\u2003aggtgtttaa\u2003attaaaacac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1451","aaataataat\u2003taagacacac\u2003aaactgagac\u2003taaggcagaa\u2003gatgtagagc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1501","gggcctttga\u2003ggccctcgcg\u2003cttccaggac\u2003tgcaggcttc\u2003ctgtgggcgg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1551","attagggctt\u2003cctcttggag\u2003aagatcagcc\u2003ggcgtttgga\u2003gtggtagaaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1601","tc\u2003gttttcga\u2003ccctgagagt\u2003ctccaggtcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1651","acctggggac\u2003ccttcagcct\u2003gctcccctga\u2003gcgaggcaca\u2003agggtacaag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1701","acagtgacag\u2003gtccacatgg\u2003tcttcctctg\u2003ctgtcccctg\u2003cagcagagca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1751","ggtgaggtgc\u2003caggccgcct\u2003gcctcctccc\u2003aactcatccc\u2003ggcctcgccg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1801","gggccccgtg\u2003ggaaggtaga\u2003gcttgggcag\u2003gccaaggccc\u2003cgcacacgct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1851","cccaggcgaa\u2003gtcaccctcc\u2003agtggtgtct\u2003cggtgacaaa\u2003gtcgaagttc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1901","catcgctcac\u2003gggcctcctg\u2003gatgcagccc\u2003gccattagcg\u2003catcacagtc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1951","gcggctcagc\u2003tgctcgctgt\u2003ccactgggcc\u2003gaagaggcgg\u2003cggcaggcct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2001","tgctgccgca\u2003tgggttctga\u2003cgg  ggcg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2051","cctgccgcag\u2003aaacacctgt\u2003gaacgcagca\u2003cacacccgcg\u2003aacacgcatc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2101","ctcgcggaca\u2003cgcagggaca\u2003cacgcgggca\u2003cgcttggctc\u2003ggctctgggc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2151","cgccggcccg\u2003gggtcccctg\u2003ttgtctgccg\u2003ccgctctctc\u2003acctcctctg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2201","agtgcctcgg\u2003tgcctcggcg\u2003aatccgcgcc\u2003cagctccggc\u2003tccacaagga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["2251","actgacttcg\u2003gcagc"]}]}}]}}},"The murine p21 sequence is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.\u20035:",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u2003\u20031","gagccgagag\u2003gtgtgagccg\u2003ccgcggtgtc\u2003agagtctagg\u2003ggaattggag",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003\u200351","tcaggcgcag\u2003atccacagcg\u2003atatccagac\u2003attcagagcc\u2003acaggcacca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003101","tgtccaatcc\u2003tggtgatgtc\u2003cgacctgttc\u2003cgcacaggag\u2003caaagtgtgc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003151","cgttgtctct\u2003tcggtcccgt\u2003ggacagtgag\u2003cagttgcgcc\u2003gtgattgcga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003201","tgcgctcatg\u2003gcgggctgtc\u2003tccaggaggc\u2003ccgagaacgg\u2003tggaactttg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003251","acttcgtcac\u2003ggagacgccg\u2003ctggagggca\u2003acttcgtctg\u2003ggagcgcgtt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003301","cggagcctag\u2003ggctgcccaa\u2003ggtctacctg\u2003agccctgggt\u2003cccgcagccg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003351","tgacgacctg\u2003ggaggggaca\u2003agaggcccag\u2003tacttcctct\u2003gccctgctgc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003401","aggggccagc\u2003tccggaggac\u2003cacgtggcct\u2003tgtcgctgtc\u2003ttgcactctg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003451","gtgtctgagc\u2003ggcctgaaga\u2003ttccccgggt\u2003gggcccggaa\u2003catctcaggg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003501","ccgaaaacgg\u2003aggcagacca\u2003gcctgacaga\u2003tttctatcac\u2003tccaagcgca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003551","gattggtctt\u2003ctgcaagaga\u2003aaaccctgaa\u2003gtgcccacgg\u2003gagccccgcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003601","ctcttctgct\u2003gtgggtcagg\u2003aggcctcttc\u2003cccatcttcg\u2003gccttagccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003651","tcactctgtg\u2003tgtcttaatt\u2003attatttgtg\u2003ttttaattta\u2003aacgtctcct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003701","gtatatacgc\u2003tgcctgccct\u2003ctcccagtct\u2003ccaaacttaa\u2003agttatttaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003751","aaaaagaaca\u2003aaacaaaaca\u2003aaaaaaaacc\u2003aaaacaaaac\u2003aaacctaaat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003801","tagtaggacg\u2003gtagggccct\u2003tagtgtgggg\u2003gatttctatt\u2003atgtagatta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003851","ttattattta\u2003agcccctccc\u2003aacccaagct\u2003ctgtgtttcc\u2003tataccggag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003901","gaacagtcct\u2003actgatatca\u2003acccatctgc\u2003atccgtttca\u2003cccaaccccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003951","ctccccccat\u2003tccctgcctg\u2003gttccttgcc\u2003acttcttacc\u2003tgggggtgat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1001","cctcagacct\u2003gaatagcact\u2003ttggaaaaat\u2003gagtaggact\u2003ttggggtctc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1051","cttgtcacct\u2003ctaaggccag\u2003ctaggatgac\u2003agtgaagcag\u2003tcacagccta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1101","gaacagggat\u2003ggcagttagg\u2003actcaaccgt\u2003aatatcccga\u2003ctcttgacat"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1151","tgctcagacc\u2003tgtgaagaca\u2003ggaatggtcc\u2003ccactctgga\u2003tcccctttgc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1201","cactcctggg\u2003gagcccacct\u2003ctcctgtggg\u2003tctctgccag\u2003ctgcccctct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1251","attttggagg\u2003gttaatctgg\u2003tgatctgctg\u2003ctcttttccc\u2003ccaccccata"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1301","cttccccttc\u2003tgcaggtcgg\u2003caggaggcat\u2003atctaggcac\u2003ttgccccaca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1351","gctcagtgga\u2003ctggaaggga\u2003atgtatatgc\u2003agggtacact\u2003aagtgggatt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1401","ccctggtctt\u2003accttaggca\u2003gctccagtgg\u2003caaccccctg\u2003cattgtgggt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1451","ctagggtggg\u2003tccttggtgg\u2003tgagacaggc\u2003ctcccagagc\u2003attctatggt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1501","gtgtggtggt\u2003gggggtgggc\u2003ttatctggga\u2003tggggacccc\u2003agttggggtt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1551","ctcagtgact\u2003tctcccattt\u2003cttagtagca\u2003gttgtacaag\u2003gagccaggcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1601","aagatggtgt\u2003cttgggggct\u2003aagggagctc\u2003acaggacact\u2003gagcaatggc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1651","tgatcctttc\u2003tcagtgttga\u2003ataccgtggg\u2003tgtcaaagca\u2003cttagtgggt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1701","ctgactccag\u2003ccccaaacat\u2003ccctgtttct\u2003gtaacatcct\u2003ggtctggact"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1751","gtctaccctt\u2003agcccgcacc\u2003ccaagaacat\u2003gtattgtggc\u2003tccctccctg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1801","tctccactca\u2003gattgtaagc\u2003gtctcacgag\u2003aagggacagc\u2003accctgcatt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1851","gtcccgagtc\u2003ctcacacccg\u2003accccaaagc\u2003tggtgctcaa\u2003taaatacttc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1901","tcgatgatt"]}]}}]}}},"The antisense murine p21 sequence is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.\u20036:",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u2003\u20031","aatcatcgag\u2003aagtatttat\u2003tgagcaccag\u2003ctttggggtc\u2003gggtgtgagg",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003\u200351","actcgggaca\u2003atgcagggtg\u2003ctgtcccttc\u2003tcgtgagacg\u2003cttacaatct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003101","gagtggagac\u2003agggagggag\u2003ccacaataca\u2003tgttcttggg\u2003gtgcgggcta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003151","agggtagaca\u2003gtccagacca\u2003ggatgttaca\u2003gaaacaggga\u2003tgtttggggc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003201","tggagtcaga\u2003cccactaagt\u2003gctttgacac\u2003ccacggtatt\u2003caacactgag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003251","aaaggatcag\u2003ccattgctca\u2003gtgtcctgtg\u2003agctccctta\u2003gcccccaaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003301","caccatcttg\u2003gcctggctcc\u2003ttgtacaact\u2003gctactaaga\u2003aatgggagaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003351","gtcactgaga\u2003accccaactg\u2003gggtccccat\u2003cccagataag\u2003cccaccccca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003401","ccaccacaca\u2003ccatagaatg\u2003ctctgggagg\u2003cctgtctcac\u2003caccaaggac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003451","ccaccctaga\u2003cccacaatgc\u2003agggggttgc\u2003cactggagct\u2003gcctaaggta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003501","agaccaggga\u2003atcccactta\u2003gtgtaccctg\u2003catatacatt\u2003cccttccagt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003551","ccactgagct\u2003gtggggcaag\u2003tgcctagata\u2003tgcctcctgc\u2003cgacctgcag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003601","aaggggaagt\u2003atggggtggg\u2003ggaaaagagc\u2003agcagatcac\u2003cagattaacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003651","ctccaaaata\u2003gaggggcagc\u2003tggcagagac\u2003ccacaggaga\u2003ggtgggctcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003701","ccaggagtgg\u2003caaaggggat\u2003ccagagtggg\u2003gaccattcct\u2003gtcttcacag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003751","gtctgagcaa\u2003tgtcaagagt\u2003cgggatatta\u2003cggttgagtc\u2003ctaactgcca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003801","tccctgttct\u2003aggctgtgac\u2003tgcttcactg\u2003tcatcctagc\u2003tggccttaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003851","ggtgacaagg\u2003agaccccaaa\u2003gtcctactca\u2003tttttccaaa\u2003gtgctattca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003901","ggtctgagga\u2003tcacccccag\u2003gtaagaagtg\u2003gcaaggaacc\u2003aggcagggaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u2003951","tggggggagg\u2003ggggttgggt\u2003gaaacggatg\u2003cagatgggtt\u2003gatatcagta"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1001","ggactgttcc\u2003tccggtatag\u2003gaaacacaga\u2003gcttgggttg\u2003ggaggggctt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1051","aaataataat\u2003aatctacata\u2003atagaaatcc\u2003cccacactaa\u2003gggccctacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1101","gtcctactaa\u2003tttaggtttg\u2003ttttgttttg\u2003gttttttttt\u2003gttttgtttt"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1151","gttctttttt\u2003taaataactt\u2003taagtttgga\u2003gactgggaga\u2003gggcaggcag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1201","cgtatataca\u2003ggagacgttt\u2003aaattaaaac\u2003acaaataata\u2003attaagacac"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1251","acagagtgag\u2003ggctaaggcc\u2003gaagatgggg\u2003aagaggcctc\u2003ctgacccaca"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1301","gcagaagagg\u2003gcggggctcc\u2003cgtgggcact\u2003tcagggtttt\u2003ctcttgcaga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1351","agaccaatct\u2003gcgcttggag\u2003tgatagaaat\u2003c\u2003"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1401",{"u":{"@attributes":{"style":"single"},"b":"c"}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1451","ctcagacacc\u2003agagtgcaag\u2003acagcgacaa\u2003ggccacgtgg\u2003tcctccggag"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1501","ctggcccctg\u2003cagcagggca\u2003gaggaagtac\u2003tgggcctctt\u2003gtcccctccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1551","aggtcgtcac\u2003ggctgcggga\u2003cccagggctc\u2003aggtagacct\u2003tgggcagccc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1601","taggctccga\u2003acgcgctccc\u2003agacgaagtt\u2003gccctccagc\u2003ggcgtctccg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1651","tgacgaagtc\u2003aaagttccac\u2003cgttctcggg\u2003cctcctggag\u2003acagcccgcc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1701","atgagcgcat\u2003cgcaatcacg\u2003gcgcaactgc\u2003tcactgtcca\u2003cgggaccgaa"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1751","gagacaacgg\u2003cacactttgc\u2003tcctgtgcgg\u2003aacaggtcgg\u2003"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1801",{"u":{"@attributes":{"style":"double"},"b":"gattggacat"}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1851","tgcgcctgac\u2003tccaattccc\u2003ctagactctg\u2003acaccgcggc\u2003ggctcacacc"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["1901","tctcggctc"]}]}}]}}},"Of particular interest are antisense oligonucleotides that have a nucleotide sequence of 10, and more preferably 20, nucleotides within the sequence 1751-1850 or 1351-1450 of SEQ ID NO.:6, or of variants or fragments thereof that possess the ability to inhibit p21 expression and\/or HIV replication or transmission. Such variants include oligonucleotides that are complementary to a corresponding region of the human p21 gene, or to non-human homologs as well as oligonucleotides that are composed of at least 10 of the nucleotide residues of 1751-1850 or 1351-1450 of SEQ ID NO.: 6. As an example, SEQ ID NO.:7: 5\u2032-TGTCAGGCTGGTCTGCCTCC-3\u2032, is an antisense oligonucleotide of SEQ ID NO.: 6 (shown underlined in SEQ ID NO.: 6) that possesses the ability to inhibit p21 expression and\/or HIV replication or transmission. An example of a variant of this sequence is the corresponding sequence of the human p21 antisense sequence: SEQ ID NO. 8: TGTCATGC TGGTCTGCCG CC, shown underlined in SEQ ID NO.:4).","As a further example, the antisense oligonucleotide, SEQ ID NO:9: 5\u2032-ACATCACCAGGATTGGACAT-3\u2032, is fragment of SEQ ID NO.: 6 (shown double underlined in SEQ ID NO.: 6) that possesses the ability to inhibit human p21 expression and\/or HIV replication or transmission. An example of a variant of this sequence is the corresponding sequence of the human p21 antisense sequence: SEQ ID NO. 10: ACATCCCCAGCCGGTTCTGACAT, shown double underlined in SEQ ID NO.:4).","Additional examples of preferred p21 inhibitors of the present invention include polynucleotide fragments of SEQ ID NO.: 11 (the antisense complement of the promoter region of the p21 gene (SEQ ID NO.:12)) or allelic or non-human species variants thereof, as well as promoter blockers, and other transcriptional or translational repressors of the p21 gene.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.:\u200311",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u20031","accatcccct\u2003tcctcacctg\u2003aaaacaggca\u2003gcccaaggac\u2003aaaatagcca",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u200351","ccagcctctt\u2003ctatgccaga\u2003gctcaacatg\u2003ttgggacatg\u2003ttcctgacgg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["101","ccagaaagcc\u2003aatcagagcc\u2003acagcctgct\u2003gcccaagcat\u2003gttcctggga"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["151","agcaggcagc\u2003atagggatgg\u2003agggaggctc\u2003agcctggggg\u2003aacaagagtg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["201","cc"]},{"entry":{}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.:\u200312",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u20031","ggcactcttg\u2003ttcccccagg\u2003ctgagcctcc\u2003ctccatccct\u2003atgctgcctg",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u200351","cttcccagga\u2003acatgcttgg\u2003gcagcaggct\u2003gtggctctga\u2003ttggctttct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["101","ggccgtcagg\u2003aacatgtccc\u2003aacatgttga\u2003gctctggcat\u2003agaagaggct"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["151","ggtggctatt\u2003ttgtccttgg\u2003gctgcctgtt\u2003ttcaggtgag\u2003gaaggggatg"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["201","gt"]}]}}]}}},"Additional examples of preferred p21 inhibitors of the present invention include protein and other non-polynucleotide inhibitors of transcription, translation of the p21 gene, inhibitory p21 mimetics, or inhibitors of the transport or processing of the expressed p21 gene product (SEQ ID NO.: 13).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.:\u200313:",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u20031","MSEPAGDVRQ\u2003NPCGSKACRR\u2003LFGPVDSEQL\u2003SRDCDALMAG\u2003CIQEARERWN",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["\u200351","FDFVTETPLE\u2003GDFAWERVRG\u2003LGLPKLYLPT\u2003GPRRGRDELG\u2003GGRRPGTSPA"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["101","LLQGTAEEDH\u2003VDLSLSCTLV\u2003PRSGEQAEGS\u2003PGGPGDSQGR\u2003KRRQTSMTDF"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["151","YHSKRRLIFS"]}]}}]}}},"Preferred inhibitors thus include triterpenoids, especially oleanane triterpenoids, and particularly the oleanane triterpenoid 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO), and analogs thereof (see, for example, Stadheim, T. A. et al. (2002) \u201cT2--3,12--1,9--28-(CDDO) ,\u201d J Biol. Chem. 277:16448-16455; Suh, N. et al. (1999) \u201cA NSOT2-C-3,12--1,9--28-APD, AA-IA,\u201d Cancer Res. 59:336-341). Also suitable are derivatives and salts of such compounds, for example, 1[2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9(11)-dien-28-oyl]imidazole (CDDO-Im) (Place, W. A. et al. (2003) \u201cThe Novel Synthetic Triterpenoid, CDDO-Imidazolide, Inhibits Inflammatory Response and Tumor Growth in Vivo,\u201d Clinical Cancer Research 9:2798-2806).","Molecules that inhibit or otherwise interfere with p21 function include binding ligands of p21 protein, including antibodies, or fragments thereof that bind to p21 protein. Suitable antibodies may be derived from human antisera, from non-human mammalian origin, or may be monoclonal, recombinant, single-chain, or humanized. Antigen-binding fragments of such antibodies (e.g., Fab and F(ab)fragments) may alternatively be employed. If desired, such administration can be provided in concert with other p21 inhibitors.","Compositions of the Present Invention","In one embodiment of the present invention, non-polynucleotide p21 inhibitors may be employed. Alternatively, or conjunctively, one or more of the above-described p21 inhibitor molecules will comprise a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct that may be administered to a recipient prior to the commencement of HIV infection, or subsequent to the onset of such infection. In accordance with the methods of the present invention, a single polynucleotide, polynucleotide construct, or composition comprising a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct containing more than one polynucleotide sequence encoding one or more molecules may be administered. Alternatively, more than one polynucleotide, polynucleotide construct, or composition comprising a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, each containing polynucleotide sequences encoding one or more molecules may be co-administered or sequentially administered.","The p21 inhibitor compound(s) of the present invention may be provided to recipients using the principles of genetic therapy or as pharmaceutical compositions.","In accordance with the principles of genetic therapy, the compositions of the present invention will comprise one or more nucleic acid molecules (preferably DNA molecule(s)) that encode p21-inhibitor compound(s). Preferably, such nucleic acid molecules will be incorporated into a recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus, a plasmid DNA, etc., and will optionally be operatively linked to one or more regulatory elements (promoters, translation initiation sites, etc.) so as to permit the transcription of the nucleic acid molecule in a recipient cell. The promoter may be a cell-specific promoter that directs substantial transcription of the DNA only in predetermined cells. Highly efficient transcription can be achieved with the early and late promoters from SV40, the long terminal repeats (LTRS) from retroviruses, e.g., RSV, HTLVI, HIVI, MPSV and the immediate early promoter of the cytomegalovirus (CMV IEP). Alternatively, the administered nucleic acid molecules will not contain such regulatory elements, and will require cellular processes (such as recombination, integration into nuclear or mitochondrial DNA, etc.) in order to produce RNA transcripts.","Suitable DNA virus genomes include herpesvirus genomes, adenovirus genomes, adeno-associated virus genomes, and poxvirus genomes. However, cellular elements can also be used (e.g., the human actin promoter, metallothionein promoter). In humans, CMV IEP is preferred. Suitable expression vectors for use in practicing the present invention include, for example, vectors such as PSVL and PMSG (Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden), pRSVcat (ATCC 37152), pSV2dhfr (ATCC 37146) and pBC12MI (ATCC 67109), VR1051, VR1055, and pcDNA3 (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.). In a preferred embodiment, such cytomegalovirus (CMV)-derived vectors, such as VRC8100, VRC 8103, VRC8106, VRC 8107, or VRC8108 are employed. All forms of DNA, whether replicating or non-replicating, preferably which do not become integrated into the genome, and which are expressible, are within the methods and compositions contemplated by the invention.","In one embodiment, a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct of the present invention is RNA. Preferably in this embodiment, the RNA is in the form of messenger RNA (mRNA). Methods for introducing RNA sequences into vertebrate cells is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,580,859. Alternatively, the RNA may be in the form of an RNA virus genome. Preferably an RNA virus genome of the present invention is noninfectious, (i.e., does not result in the production of infectious virus particles in vertebrate cells). Suitable RNA virus genomes include, but are not limited to, alphavirus genomes, picornavirus genomes, and retrovirus genomes. Methods for the in vivo introduction of non-infectious viral genomes to vertebrate tissues are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are described, e.g., in Altman-Hamamdzic, S., et al. (1997) \u201cEOB-GIMB: UOA NNSVVA NGDS,\u201d Gene Therapy 4:815-822, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,980,289, and in Miller, A. D., et al. 1993) \u201cUORVFGTAE,\u201d Meth. Enzymol. 217:581-599. Viral replicons, i.e., non-infectious RNA virus genomes packaged in a viral coat, e.g., a picornavirus coat or an alphavirus coat, are also useful for efficient administration of RNA. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,766,602; 5,614,413, and PCT Publication No. WO 95\/07994.","The nucleic acid molecules of such compositions may be single stranded or double-stranded, and may be circular or linear. The term \u201cnucleic acid\u201d is intended to encompass a singular nucleic acid molecule as well as plural nucleic acid molecules, and to refer to an isolated molecule or construct, e.g., virus genomes (preferably non-infectious), messenger RNA (mRNA), plasmid DNA (pDNA), or derivatives of pDNA (e.g., minicircles as described in (Darquet, A-M et al. (1997) \u201cA NDNA VFNGD: SMe,\u201d Gene Therapy 4:1341-1349) comprising a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct. A nucleic acid may be provided in linear (e.g., mRNA), circular (e.g., plasmid), or branched form as well as double-stranded or single-stranded forms. A nucleic acid may comprise a conventional phosphodiester bond or a non-conventional bond (e.g., an amide bond, such as found in peptide nucleic acids (PNA)). Preferably, a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct of the present invention is part of a circular or linearized plasmid which is preferably non-infectious (i.e., does not result in the production of infectious virus particles in vertebrate cells), and noninitegrating (i.e., does not integrate into the genome of vertebrate cells). A linearized plasmid is a plasmid that was previously circular but has been linearized, for example, by digestion with a restriction endonuclease.","Methods of gene therapy are reviewed by Relph, K. et al. (2004) \u201cRDACSOGTUVVITUK,\u201d BMJ. 329(7470):839-842; Takimoto, R. et al. (2004) \u201cTSG53 AMTT,\u201d Gan To Kagaku Ryoho 31(9):1309-1313; Hannon, G. J. et al. (2004) \u201cUTPOTHGWRNA I,\u201d Nature 431(7006):371-378; Seufert, J. (2004) \u201cCTAGTIDM,\u201d MMW Fortschr Med. 146(20):39-40; Kawakami, Y. et al. (2004) \u201cCancer gene therapy and immunotherapy,\u201d Cancer Chemother Biol Response Modif. 21:327-337; Segota, E. et al. (2004) \u201cTPOTT: CDBMS,\u201d Cleve Clin J. Med. 71(7):551-560; Morral, N. (2004) \u201cGTFT1 D. NA,\u201d Minerva Med. 95(2):93-104; Shen, W. G. (2004) \u201cRNA IAICAIM,\u201d Chin Med J (Engl). 117(7): 1084-1091; Nicklin, S. A. et al. (2003) \u201cDOTVVFCGT,\u201d Genet Eng (N Y). 25:15-49; Davidoff, A. M. et al. (2004) \u201cAGTFCT,\u201d Curr Hematol Rep. 2004 3(4):267-273; Yonemitsu, Y. et al. (2004) \u201cGT: IH, CS, AFP,\u201d Fukuoka Igaku Zasshi. 95(4):81-88; Donahue, J. K. et al. (2004) \u201cGTTFCA,\u201d Ann Med. 36 Suppl 1:98-105; Guo, Z. S. et al. (2004) \u201cVAA VFGD,\u201d Expert Opin Biol Ther. 4(6):901-917; Truckenmiller, M. E. et al. (2004) \u201cVVFI8+ T CR,\u201d Expert Opin Biol Ther. 4(6):861-868; Wang, S. et al. (2004) \u201cT53 P: TFTDONCT,\u201d Cancer Treat Res. 119:175-187; Downward, J. (2004) \u201cRNA I,\u201d BMJ. 328(7450):1245-1248; Scanlon, K. J. (2004) \u201cCGT: CAO,\u201d Anticancer Res. 24(2A):501-504; Ozawa, K. (2004) \u201cAAV V-GTAIATTNS,\u201d Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 43(11):835-838; and Kanerva, A. et al. (2004) \u201cMAFCGT,\u201d Int J Cancer. 2004 Jul. 1; 110(4):475-480. Additional descriptions of gene therapy approaches that can be modified to accomplish the goals of the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,806,080; 6,800,479; 6,797,703; 6,797,505; 6,784,162; 6,783,980; 6,780,639; 6,746,441; 6,743,620; 6,743,444; 6,740,331; 6,697,669; 6,692,966; 6,692,737; 6,689,758; 6,689,600; 6,677,313; 6,669,935; 6,667,294; 6,645,942; 6,632,670; 6,627,615; 6,592,864; 6,579,855; and 6,576,463.","If the p21 inhibitor compound(s) of the present invention is\/are administered as a pharmaceutical composition, such pharmaceutical composition can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutical compositions, whereby the substance to be delivered is combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Suitable vehicles and their preparation are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 16Edition, A. Osol, Ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1980), and Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 19th Edition, A. R. Gennaro, Ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1995).","The amount of a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct or other p21 inhibitor included in such a composition depends on factors including the age and weight of the subject, the delivery method and route, the type of treatment desired, and the type of polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct or other p21 inhibitor being administered. In general, a composition of the present invention that includes polynucleotide or polynucleotide constructs will contain from about 1 ng to about 30 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, more preferably, from about 100 ng to about 10 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct. Certain preferred compositions of the present invention may include about 1 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 5 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 10 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 50 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 100 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 500 ng of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 1 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 5 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 10 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 50 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 100 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 150 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 200 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 250 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 300 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 350 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 400 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 450 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 500 \u03bcg of a polynucleotide, about 550 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 600 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 650 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 700 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 750 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 800 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 850 \u03bcg of a polynucleotide, about 900 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 950 \u03bcg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 1 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 5 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 10 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 15 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 20 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, about 25 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, or about 30 mg of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct.","Nucleic acids and\/or polynucleotides and\/or polynucleotide constructs of the present invention, e.g., plasmid DNA, derivatives of plasmid DNA, mRNA, linear DNA, viral genomes, or polynucleotide fragments contained therein may be formulated into any of the various compositions and may be used in any of the methods disclosed herein. As used herein, the term \u201cpolynucleotide fragment\u201d refers to a polynucleotide that is either a portion of a gene, cDNA or RNA molecule, or a complement of such molecules, and which possesses a length of at least 10 nucleotide residues, at least 15 nucleotide residues, at least 20 nucleotide residues, at least 25 nucleotide residues, at least 35 nucleotide residues, at least 50 nucleotide residues, at least 75 nucleotide residues, at least at least 100 nucleotide residues, at least 150 nucleotide residues, or at least 200 nucleotide residues.","For aqueous compositions used in vivo, use of sterile pyrogen-free water is preferred. Such formulations will contain an effective amount of such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct together with a suitable salt and\/or auxiliary agent as disclosed herein, in order to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable compositions suitable for optimal administration to a vertebrate. Insoluble polynucleotides or polynucleotide constructs may be solubilized in a weak acid or weak base, and then diluted to the desired volume, for example, with an aqueous solution of the present invention. The pH of the solution may be adjusted as appropriate. In addition, a pharmaceutically acceptable additive can be used to provide an appropriate osmolarity.","As used herein a \u201csalt\u201d is a substance produced from the reaction between acids and bases which comprises a metal (cation) and a nonmetal (anion). Salt crystals may be \u201chydrated\u201d i.e., contain one or more water molecules. Such hydrated salts, when dissolved in an aqueous solution at a certain molar concentration, are equivalent to the corresponding anhydrous salt dissolved in an aqueous solution at the same molar concentration. For the present invention, salts which are readily soluble in an aqueous solution are preferred.","The terms \u201csaline\u201d or \u201cnormal saline\u201d as used herein refer to an aqueous solution of about 145 mM to about 155 mM sodium chloride, preferably about 154 mM sodium chloride. The terms \u201cphosphate buffered saline\u201d or PBS\u201d refer to an aqueous solution of about 145 mM to about 15:5 mM sodium chloride, preferably about 154 mM sodium chloride, and about 10 mM sodium phosphate, at a pH ranging from about 6.0 to 8.0, preferably at a pH ranging from about 6.5 to about 7.5, most preferably at pH 7.2.","Such compositions of the present invention may include one or more transfection facilitating materials that facilitate delivery of polynucleotides or polynucleotide constructs to the interior of a cell, and\/or to a desired location within a cell. Examples of the transfection facilitating materials include, but are not limited to lipids, preferably cationic lipids; inorganic materials such as calcium phosphate, and metal (e.g., gold or tungsten) particles (e.g., \u201cpowder\u201d type delivery solutions); peptides, including cationic peptides, targeting peptides for selective delivery to certain cells or intracellular organelles such as the nucleus or nucleolus, and amphipathic peptides, i.e. helix forming or pore forming peptides; basic proteins, such as histories; asialoproteins; viral proteins (e.g., Sendai virus coat protein); pore-forming proteins; and polymers, including dendrimers, star-polymers, \u201chomogenous\u201d poly-amino acids (e.g., poly-lysine, poly-arginine), \u201cheterogenous\u201d poly-amino acids (e.g., mixtures of lysine & glycine), co-polymers, polyvinylpyrrolidinone (PVP), and polyethylene glycol (PEG). Furthermore, those auxiliary agents of the present invention which facilitate and enhance the entry of a polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct into vertebrate cells in vivo, may also be considered \u201ctransfection facilitating materials.\u201d","Certain embodiments of the present invention may include lipids as a transfection facilitating material, including cationic lipids (e.g., DMRIE, DOSPA, DC-Chol, GAP-DLRIE), basic lipids (e.g., steryl amine), neutral lipids (e.g., cholesterol), anionic lipids (e.g., phosphatidyl serine), and zwitterionic lipids (e.g., DOPE, DOPC).","Examples of cationic lipids are 5-carboxyspermylglycine dioctadecylamide (DOGS) and dipalmitoyl-phophatidylethanolamine-5-carboxy-spermylamide (DPPES). Cationic cholesterol derivatives are also useful, including {3\u03b2-[N-N\u2032,N\u2032-dimethylamino)ethane]-carbomoyl}-cholesterol (DC-Chol). Dimethyldioctdecyl-ammonium bromide (DDAB), N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-(bis-(2-tetradecyloxyethyl))-N-methyl-ammonium bromide (ADEMO), N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-(bis-(2-dodecyloxyethyl))-N-methyl-1-ammonium bromide (PADELO), N,N,N-tris-(2-dodecyloxy)ethyl-N-(3-amino)pro-pyl-ammonium bromide (PATELO), and N-(3-aminopropyl)((2-dodecyloxy)e-thyl)-N-(2-dodecyloxy)ethyl-1-piperazinaminium bromide (GALOE-BP) can also be employed in the present invention.","Non-diether cationic lipids, such as DL-1,2-dioleoyl-3-dimethylamin-opropyl-\u03b2-hydroxyethylammonium (DORI diester), 1-O-oleyl-2-oleoyl-3-dimethylaminopropyl-\u03b2-hydroxyethylammonium (DORI ester\/ether), and their salts promote in vivo gene delivery. Preferred cationic lipids comprise groups attached via a heteroatom attached to the quaternary ammonium moiety in the head group. A glycyl spacer can connect the linker to the hydroxyl group.","Cationic lipids for use in certain embodiments of the present invention include DMRIE ((\u00b1)-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2-,3-bis(tetradecyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide), and GAP-DMORIE ((+)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-bis(syn-9-tetradeceneyloxy)-1-pro-panaminium bromide), as well as (\u00b1)-N,N-dimethyl-N-[2-(sperminecarboxamido)et-hyl]-2,3-bis(dioleyloxy)-1-propaniminium pentahydrochloride (DOSPA), (\u00b1)-N-(2-aminoethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-bis(tetradecyloxy)-1-propanimini-um bromide (\u03b2-aminoethyl-DMRIE or \u03b2AE-DMRIE) (Wheeler, et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1280:1-11 (1996)), and (\u00b1)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,-N-dimethyl-2,3-bis(dodecyloxy)-1-propaniminium bromide (GAP-DLRIE) (Wheeler, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:11454-11459 (1996)), which have been developed from DMRIE. Other examples of DMRIE-derived cationic lipids that are useful for the present invention are (\u00b1)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-(bis-decyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide (GAP-DDRIE), (\u00b1)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,-N-dimethyl-2,3-(bis-tetradecyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide (GAP-DMRIE), (O)-N-((N\u2033-methyl)-N\u2032-ureyl)propyl-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-bis(tetradecyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide (GMU-DMRIE), (O)-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N,N-dimeth-yl-2,3-bis(dodecyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide (DLRIE), and (\u00b1)-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-bis-([Z]-9-octadecenyloxy)prop-yl-1-propaniminium bromide (HP-DORIE).","A cationic lipid that may be used in concert with the p21 inhibitor polynucleotide compositions of the present invention is a \u201ccytofectin.\u201d As used herein, a \u201ccytofectin\u201d refers to a subset of cationic lipids which incorporate certain structural features including, but not limited to, a quaternary ammonium group and\/or a hydrophobic region (usually with two or more alkyl chains), but which do not require amine protonation to develop a positive charge. Examples of cytofectins may be found, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,861,397. Cytofectins that may be used in the present invention, include DMRIE ((\u00b1)-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-bis(tetradecyloxy)-1-pr-opanaminium bromide), GAP-DMORIE ((\u00b1)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,-3-bis(syn-9-tetradeceneyloxy)-1-propanaminium bromide), and GAP-DLRIE ((\u00b1)-N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-2,3-(bis-dodecyloxy)-1-propanamini-um bromide).","The cationic lipid may be mixed with one or more co-lipids. The term \u201cco-lipid\u201d refers to any hydrophobic material which may be combined with the cationic lipid component and includes amphipathic lipids, such as phospholipids, and neutral lipids, such as cholesterol. Cationic lipids and co-lipids may be mixed or combined in a number of ways to produce a variety of non-covalently bonded macroscopic structures, including, for example, liposomes, multilamellar vesicles, unilamellar vesicles, micelles, and simple films. A preferred class of co-lipids are the zwitterionic phospholipids, which include the phosphatidylethanolamines and the phosphatidylcholines. Most preferably, the co-lipids are phosphatidylethanolamines, such as, for example, DOPE, DMPE and DPyPE. DOPE and DPyPE are particularly preferred. The most preferred co-lipid is DPyPE, which comprises two phytanoyl substituents incorporated into the diacylphosphatidylethanolamine skeleton. The cationic lipid:co-lipid molar ratio may range from about 9:1 to about 1:9, or from about 4:1 to about 1:4, or from about 2:1 to about 1:2, or about 1:1. In order to maximize homogeneity, such cationic lipid and co-lipid components may be dissolved in a solvent such as chloroform, followed by evaporation of the cationic lipid\/co-lipid solution under vacuum to dryness as a film on the inner surface of a glass vessel (e.g., a Rotovap round-bottomed flask). Upon suspension in an aqueous solvent, the amphipathic lipid component molecules self-assemble into homogenous lipid vesicles. These lipid vesicles may subsequently be processed to have a selected mean diameter of uniform size prior to complexing with, for example, plasmid DNA according to methods known to those skilled in the art. For example, the sonication of a lipid solution is described in Felgner, P. L., et al. (1987) \u201cL: A HE, L-MDNA-TP,\u201d Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84:7413-7417 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5,264,618.","In some embodiments, such polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct(s) are combined with lipids by mixing, for example, a plasmid DNA solution and a solution of cationic lipid:co-lipid liposomes. Preferably, the concentration of each of the constituent solutions is adjusted prior to mixing such that the desired final plasmid DNA\/cationic lipid:co-lipid ratio and the desired plasmid DNA final concentration will be obtained upon mixing the two solutions. For example, if the desired final solution is to be 2.5 mM sodium phosphate, the various components of the composition, e.g., plasmid DNA, cationic lipid:co-lipid liposomes, and any other desired auxiliary agents, transfection facilitating materials, or additives are each prepared in 2.5 mM sodium phosphate and then simply mixed to afford the desired complex. Alternatively, if the desired final solution is to be, e.g., 2.5 mM sodium phosphate, certain components of the composition, e.g., the auxiliary agent and\/or cationic lipid:co-lipid liposomes, is prepared in a volume of water which is less than that of the final volume of the composition, and certain other components of the composition, e.g., the plasmid DNA, is prepared in a solution of sodium phosphate at a higher concentration than 2.5 mM, in a volume such that when the components in water are added to the components in the sodium phosphate solution, the final composition is in an aqueous solution of 2.5 mM sodium phosphate. For example, the plasmid DNA could be prepared in 5.0 mM sodium phosphate at one half the final volume, the auxiliary agent and\/or cationic lipid:co-lipid liposome is prepared in water at one half the final volume, and then these two elements are mixed together to produce the final composition. The cationic lipid:co-lipid liposomes are preferably prepared by hydrating a thin film of the mixed lipid materials in an appropriate volume of aqueous solvent by vortex mixing at ambient temperatures for about 1 minute. The thin films are prepared by admixing chloroform solutions of the individual components to afford a desired molar solute ratio followed by aliquoting the desired volume of the solutions into a suitable container. The solvent is removed by evaporation, first with a stream of dry, inert gas (e.g. argon) followed by high vacuum treatment.","A transfection facilitating material can be used alone or in combination with one or more other transfection facilitating materials. Two or more transfection facilitating materials can be combined by chemical bonding (e.g, covalent and ionic such as in lipidated polylysine, PEGylated polylysine) (Toncheva, V., et al. (1998) \u201cNVFGDFBS-AODNA WP(L-L) GWHP,\u201d Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1380(3):354-368), mechanical mixing (e.g., free moving materials in liquid or solid phase such as \u201cpolylysine+cationic lipids\u201d) (Gao, X. et al. (1996) \u201cPOCL-MGDBP,\u201d Biochemistry 35:1027-1036); Trubetskoy, V. S., et al. (1992) \u201cCLETDAEOEDNA MBN-TMP(L-L)-ACIMLEC,\u201d Biochem. Biophys. Acta 1131:311-313), and aggregation (e.g., co-precipitation, gel forming such as in cationic lipids+poly-lactide co-galactide, and polylysine+gelatin).","Other hydrophobic and amphiphilic additives, such as, for example, sterols, fatty acids, gangliosides, glycolipids, lipopeptides, liposaccharides, neobees, niosomes, prostaglandins and sphingolipids, may also be included in the compositions of the present invention. In such compositions, these additives may be included in an amount between about 0.1 mol % and about 99.9 mol % (relative to total lipid). Preferably, these additives comprise about 1-50 mol % and, most preferably, about 2-25 mol %. Preferred additives include lipopeptides, liposaccharides and steroids.","In embodiments of the present invention in which non-polynucleotide p21 inhibitors are provided, such compounds can be formulated according to known methods for preparing such pharmaceutical compositions, whereby the substance to be delivered is combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Suitable vehicles and their preparation are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 16Edition, A. Osol, Ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1980), and Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 19Edition, A. R. Gennaro, Ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1995). The amount of such compounds included in such a composition depends on factors including the age and weight of the subject, the delivery method and route, the type of treatment desired, and the type of polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct or other p21 inhibitor being administered. In general, a composition of the present invention that includes such inhibitors will contain from about 1 ng to about 30 mg, and more preferably, from about 100 ng to about 10 mg of such inhibitor. Certain preferred compositions of the present invention may include about 1 ng of such inhibitor, about 5 ng of such inhibitor, about 10 ng of such inhibitor, about 50 ng of such inhibitor, about 100 ng of such inhibitor, about 500 ng of such inhibitor, about 1 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 5 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 10 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 50 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 100 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 150 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 200 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 250 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 300 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 350 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 400 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 450 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 500 \u03bcg of a polynucle-otide, about 550 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 600 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 650 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 700 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 750 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 800 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 850 \u03bcg of a polynucle-otide, about 900 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 950 \u03bcg of such inhibitor, about 1 mg of such inhibitor, about 5 mg of such inhibitor, about 10 mg of such inhibitor, about 15 mg of such inhibitor, about 20 mg of such inhibitor, about 25 mg of such inhibitor, or about 30 mg of such inhibitor.","Such compositions may be formulated into any of the various compositions and may be used in any of the methods disclosed herein. For aqueous compositions used in vivo, use of sterile pyrogen-free water is preferred. Such formulations will contain an effective amount of such inhibitor together with a suitable salt and\/or auxiliary agent as disclosed herein, in order to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable compositions suitable for optimal administration to a vertebrate. Insoluble inhibitors may be solubilized in a weak acid or weak base, and then diluted to the desired volume, for example, with an aqueous solution of the present invention. The pH of the solution may be adjusted as appropriate. In addition, a pharmaceutically acceptable additive can be used to provide an appropriate osmolarity. Alternatively, lipids and lipid vehicles (as discussed above) may be used to facilitate the inhibitor administration. Other hydrophobic and amphiphilic additives, such as, for example, sterols, fatty acids, gangliosides, glycolipids, lipopeptides, liposaccharides, neobees, niosomes, prostaglandins and sphingolipids, may also be included in such compositions of the present invention. In such compositions, these additives may be included in an amount between about 0.1 mol % and about 99.9 mol % (relative to total lipid). Preferably, these additives comprise about 1-50 mol % and, most preferably, about 2-25 mol %. Preferred additives include lipopeptides, liposaccharides and steroids.","Pharmaceutical Compositions","The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may be in the form of an emulsion, gel, solution, suspension, etc. In addition, the pharmaceutical composition can also contain pharmaceutically acceptable additives including, for example, diluents, binders, stabilizers, and preservatives. Administration of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the polynucleotides described herein is preferred. Such salts can be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non-toxic bases including organic bases and inorganic bases. Salts derived from inorganic bases include sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium, magnesium, and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non-toxic bases include salts of primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, basic amino acids, and the like. Preferred salts include but are not limited to sodium phosphate, sodium acetate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium sulfate, sodium pyruvate, potassium phosphate, potassium acetate, potassium bicarbonate, potassium sulfate, potassium pyruvate, disodium DL-\u03b1-glycerol-phosphate, and disodium glucose-6-phosphate. \u201cPhosphate\u201d salts of sodium or potassium can be either the monobasic form, e.g., NaHPO, or the dibasic form, e.g., NaHPO, but a mixture of the two, resulting in a desired pH, is most preferred. The most preferred salts are sodium phosphate or potassium phosphate. As used herein, the terms \u201csodium phosphate\u201d or \u201cpotassium phosphate,\u201d refer to a mixture of the dibasic and monobasic forms of each salt to present at a given pH.","Additional embodiments of the present invention are drawn to pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more p21 inhibitor molecules and an auxiliary agent. The present invention is further drawn to methods to use such compositions, methods of making such compositions, and pharmaceutical kits. As used herein, an \u201cauxiliary agent\u201d is a substance included in a composition for its ability to enhance, relative to a composition which is identical except for the inclusion of the auxiliary agent, the effectiveness of a p21 inhibitor molecule. Auxiliary agents of the present invention include nonionic, anionic, cationic, or zwitterionic surfactant or detergents, with nonionic, anionic, cationic, or zwitterionic surfactant or detergents, with nonionic surfactant or detergents being preferred, chelators, DNAse inhibitors, agents that aggregate or condense nucleic acids, emulsifying or solubilizing agents, wetting agents, gel-forming agents, and buffers.","Suitable auxiliary agents include non-ionic detergents and surfactant such as poloxaners. Poloxamers are a series of non-ionic surfactant that are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. The poly(oxyethylene) segment is hydrophillic and the poly(oxypropylene) segment is hydrophobic. The physical forms are liquids, pastes or solids. The molecular weight ranges from 1000 to greater than 16000. The basic structure of a poloxaner is HO\u2014[CHCHO]\u2014[CHCHO(CH)]\u2014[CHCHO]\u2014H, where x and y represent repeating units of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide respectively. Thus, the propylene oxide (PO) segment is sandwiched between two ethylene oxide (EO) segments, (EO-PO-EO). The number of x's and y's distinguishes individual poloxamers. If the ethylene oxide segment is sandwiched between two propylene oxide segments, (PO-EO-PO), then the resulting structure is a reverse poloxaner. The basic structure of a reverse poloxamer is HO\u2014[CH(CH)CHO)]\u2014[CHCHO]\u2014[CHC\u2014HO(CH)]\u2014H.","Poloxamers that may be used in concert with the methods and compositions of the present invention include, but are not limited to commercially available poloxamers such as Pluronic\u00ae L121 (avg. MW:4400), Pluronic\u00ae L101 (avg. MW:3800), Pluronic\u00ae L81 (avg. MW:2750), Pluronic\u00ae L61 (avg. MW:2000), Pluronic\u00ae L31 (avg. MW: 1100), Pluronic\u00ae L122 (avg. MW:5000), Pluronic\u00ae L92 (avg. MW:3650), Pluronic\u00ae L72 (avg. MW:2750), Pluronic\u00ae L62 (avg. MW:2500), Pluronic\u00ae L42 (avg. MW:1630), Pluronic\u00ae L63 (avg. MW:2650), Pluronic\u00ae L43 (avg. MW: 1850), Pluronic\u00ae L64 (avg. MW:2900), Pluronic\u00ae L44 (avg. MW:2200), Pluronic\u00ae L35 (avg. MW:1900), Pluronic\u00ae P123 (avg. MW:5750), Pluronic\u00ae P103 (avg. MW:4950), Pluronic\u00ae P104 (avg. MW:5900), Pluronic\u00ae P84 (avg. MW:4200), Pluronic\u00ae P105 (avg. MW:6500), Pluronic\u00ae P85 (avg. MW:4600), Pluronic\u00ae P75 (avg. MW:4150), Pluronic\u00ae P65 (avg. MW:3400), Pluronic\u00ae F127 (avg. MW: 12600), Pluronic\u00ae F98 (avg. MW: 13000), Pluronic\u00ae F87 (avg. MW:7700), Pluronic\u00ae F77 (avg. MW:6600), Pluronic\u00ae F 108 (avg. MW: 14600), Pluronic\u00ae F98 (avg. MW: 13000), Pluronic\u00ae F88 (avg. MW: 11400), Pluronic\u00ae F68 (avg. MW:8400), and Pluronic\u00ae F38 (avg. MW:4700).","Reverse poloxamers of the present invention include, but are not limited to Pluronic\u00ae R31R1 (avg. MW:3250), Pluronic\u00ae R 25R1 (avg. MW:2700), Pluronic\u00ae R17R1 (avg. MW:1900), Pluronic\u00ae R31R2 (avg. MW:3300), Pluronic\u00ae R25R2 (avg. MW:3100), Pluronic\u00ae R17R2 (avg. MW:2150), Pluronic\u00ae R12R3 (avg. MW: 1800), Pluronic\u00ae R31R4 (avg. MW:4150), Pluronic\u00ae R25R4 (avg. MW:3600), Pluronic\u00ae R22R4 (avg. MW:3350), Pluronic\u00ae R17R4 (avg. MW:3650), Pluronic\u00ae R25R5 (avg. MW:4320), Pluronic\u00ae R10R5 (avg. MW:1950), Pluronic\u00ae R25R8 (avg. MW:8850), Pluronic\u00ae R17R8 (avg. MW:7000), Pluronic\u00ae R10R8 (avg. MW:4550).","Other commercially available poloxamers include compounds that are block copolymer of polyethylene and polypropylene glycol such as Synperonic\u00ae L121, Synperonic\u00ae L122, Synperonic\u00ae P104, Synperonic\u00ae P105, Synperonic\u00ae P123, Synperonic\u00ae P85, and Synperonic\u00ae P94; and compounds that are nonylphenyl polyethylene glycol such as Synperonic\u00ae NP10, Synperonic\u00ae NP30, and Synperonic\u00ae NP5.","Suitable auxiliary agents include non-ionic detergents and surfactants such as Pluronic\u00ae F68, Pluronic\u00ae F77, Pluronic\u00ae F108, Pluronic\u00ae F127, Pluronic\u00ae P65, Pluronic\u00ae P85, Pluronic\u00ae P103, Pluronic\u00ae P104, Pluronic\u00ae P105, Pluronic\u00ae P123, Pluronic\u00ae L31, Pluronic\u00ae L43, Pluronic\u00ae L44, Pluronic\u00ae L61, Pluronic\u00ae L62, Pluronic\u00ae L64, Pluronic\u00ae L81, Pluronic\u00ae L92, Pluronic\u00ae L101, Pluronic\u00ae L121, Pluronic\u00ae R17R4, Pluronic\u00ae R25R4, Pluronic\u00ae R25R2, IGEPAL CA 630\u00ae, NONIDET NP-40, Nonidet\u00ae P40, Tween-20\u00ae, Tween-80\u00ae, Triton X-100\u00ae, Triton X-114\u2122, Thesit\u00ae; the anionic detergent sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS); the sugar stachyose; the condensing agent DMSO; and the chelator\/DNAse inhibitor EDTA. Even more preferred are the auxiliary agents Nonidet\u00ae P40, Triton X-100\u00ae, Pluronic\u00ae F68, Pluronic\u00ae F77, Pluronic\u00ae F108, Pluronic\u00ae P65, Pluronic\u00ae P103, Pluronic\u00ae L31, Pluronic\u00ae L44, Pluronic\u00ae L61, Pluronic\u00ae L64, Pluronic\u00ae L92, Pluronic\u00ae R17R4, Pluronic\u00ae R25R4 and Pluronic\u00ae R25R2. Most preferred auxiliary agent is Pluronic\u00ae R25R2.","Optimal concentrations of auxiliary agents of the present invention are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20020019358 and PCT Publication WO0180897A3. For example, in certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise about 5 ng to about 30 mg of a suitable polynucleotide or a polynucleotide construct, and\/or a non-polynucleotide p21 inhibitor, and about 0.001% (w\/v) to about 2.0% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R4, preferably about 0.002% (w\/v) to about 1.0% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R4, more preferably about 0.01% (w\/v) to about 0.01% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R4, with about 0.01% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R4 being the most preferred; about 0.001% (w\/v) to about 2.0% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R2, preferably about 0.001% (w\/v) to about 1.0% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00aeD R 25R2, more preferably about 0.001% (w\/v) to about 0.1% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R2, with about 0.01% (w\/v) of Pluronic\u00ae R 25R2 being the most preferred.","Administration of the Pharmaceutical Compositions of the Present Invention","The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered by any suitable means, for example, inhalation, or intradermally, intracavity (e.g., oral, vaginal, rectal, nasal, peritoneal, ventricular, or intestinal), intradermally, intramuscularly, intranasally, intraocularly, intraperitoneally, intrarectally, intratracheally, intravenously, orally, subcutaneously, transdermally, or transmucosally (i.e., across a mucous membrane) in a dose effective for the production of neutralizing antibody and resulting in protection from infection or disease. The present pharmaceutical compositions can generally be administered in the form of a spray for intranasal administration, or by nose drops, inhalants, swabs on tonsils, or a capsule, liquid, suspension or elixirs for oral administration. The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of single dose preparations or in multi-dose flasks. Reference is made to Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa., Osol (ed.) (1980).","Administration can be into one or more tissues including but not limited to muscle, skin, brain, lung, liver, spleen, bone marrow, thymus, heart, e.g., myocardium, endocardium, and pericardium; lymph nodes, blood, bone, cartilage, pancreas, kidney, gall bladder, stomach, intestine, testis, ovary, uterus, rectum, nervous system, eye, gland, or connective tissue. Furthermore, in the methods of the present invention, the pharmaceutical compositions may be administered to any internal cavity of a mammal, including, but not limited to, the lungs, the mouth, the nasal cavity, the stomach, the peritoneal cavity, the intestine, any heart chamber, veins, arteries, capillaries, lymphatic cavities, the uterine cavity, the vaginal cavity, the rectal cavity, joint cavities, ventricles in brain, spinal canal in spinal cord, and the ocular cavities. Any mode of administration can be used so long as the mode results in prophylactic or therapeutic efficacy. Methods to detect such a response include serological methods, e.g., western blotting, molecular (transcriptional) staining tissue sections by immunohistochemical methods, and measuring the activity of the polypeptide. Pharmaceutical DNA compositions and methods of their manufacture and delivery that may be used in accordance with the present invention are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,589,466; 5,620,896; 5,641,665; 5,703,055; 5,707,812; 5,846,946; 5,861,397; 5,891,718; 6,022,874; 6,147,055; 6,214,804; 6,228,844; 6,399,588; 6,413,942; 6,451,769, European Patent Documents EP1165140A2; EP1006796A1 and EP0929536A1; and PCT Patent Publications WO00\/57917; WO00\/3263; WO01\/09303; WO03\/028632; WO94\/29469; WO95\/29703; and WO98\/14439.","Administration may be by needle injection, catheter infusion, biolistic injectors, particle accelerators (e.g., \u201cgene guns\u201d or pneumatic \u201cneedleless\u201d injectors) Med-E-Jet (Vahlsing, H., et al. (1994) \u201cIWPDNA UA PG,\u201d J. Immunol. Methods 171:11-22), Pigjet (Schrijver, R. S. et al. (1997) \u201cIOCWA BHV1 VVOA DNA VBCFTG POBRSV,\u201d Vaccine 15:1908-1916), Biojector (Davis, H. L. et al. (1994) \u201cDGTISM: PDNA-BIATHB VSA,\u201d Vaccine 12:1503-1509; Gramzinski, R., et al. (1998) \u201cIRTA HB DNA VIAM: A COVF, R, AMOA,\u201d Mol Med 4:109-118), AdvantaJet (Lindmayer, I., et al. (1986) \u201cDONJIFIT,\u201d Diabetes Care 9:294-297), Medi-jector (Martins, J. K. et al. (1979) \u201cM\u2014A NMOC-AD,\u201d J. Occup. Med. 21:821-824), gelfoam sponge depots, other commercially available depot materials (e.g., hydrogels), osmotic pumps (e.g., Alza minipumps), oral or suppositorial solid (tablet or pill) pharmaceutical formulations, topical skin creams, and decanting, use of polynucleotide coated suture (Qin, J. Y. et al. (1999) \u201cGS\u2014A NMFIGTAIAIHT,\u201d Life Sciences 65:2193-2203) or topical applications during surgery.","Thus, in one embodiment, administration is into muscle tissue, i.e., skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, or myocardium. Most preferably, the muscle is skeletal muscle. For polynucleotide constructs in which the polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct is DNA, the DNA can be operably linked to a cell-specific promoter that directs substantial transcription of the DNA only in predetermined cells. In certain embodiments, a polynucleotide construct, or composition comprising an polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct, is delivered to any tissue including, but not limited to those disclosed herein, such that the polynucleotide or polynucleotide construct is free from association with liposomal formulations and charged lipids. Alternatively, the polynucleotide, polynucleotide construct, or composition is delivered to a tissue other than brain or nervous system tissue, for example, to muscle, skin, or blood, in any composition as described herein.","Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition is delivered to the interstitial space of a tissue. \u201cInterstitial space\u201d comprises the intercellular, fluid, mucopolysaccharide matrix among the reticular fibers of organ tissues, elastic fibers in the walls of vessels or chambers, collagen fibers of fibrous tissues, or that same matrix within connective tissue ensheathing muscle cells or in the lacunae of bone. It is similarly the space occupied by the plasma of the circulation and the lymph fluid of the lymphatic channels.","Nucleic acid pharmaceutical compositions, preferably in the form of plasmid DNA, may be administered (especially by injection) into tissue and voltage pulses applied between electrodes disposed in the tissue, thus applying electric fields to cells of the tissue. The electrically-mediated enhancement covers administration using either iontophoresis or electroporation in vivo. Suitable techniques of electroporation and iontophoresis are provided by Singh, J. et al. (1989) \u201cTDODBI: A R,\u201d Drug Des. Deliv. 4:1-12; Theiss, U. et al. (1991) \u201cI\u2014ITA FFCA?,\u201d Methods Find. Exp. Clin. Pharmacol. 13:353-359; Singh and Maibach (1993) \u201cTIDDIV: HD, DAFP,\u201d Dermatology. 187:235-238; Singh, P. et al. (1994) \u201cIIDD: BPAA,\u201d Crit. Rev. Ther. Drug Carrier Syst. 11:161-213; Su, Y. et al. (1994) \u201cS1-P, A NSM, SDNA BAOAP-1 IQS3T3 F,\u201d J. Pharm. Sci. 83:12-17; Costello, C. T. et al. (1995) \u201cI: AITMD,\u201d Phys. Ther. 75:554-563; Howard, J. p. et al. (1995) \u201cEOACIODD,\u201d Arch. Phys. Med. Rehabil. 76:463-466; Kassan, D. G. et al. (1996) \u201cPEODDD: IAP,\u201d J. Amer. Acad. Dermatol. 34:657-666; Riviere et al. (1997) \u201cE-ATDD,\u201d Pharm. Res. 14:687-697; Zempsky, W. T. et al. (1998) \u201cI: NDD,\u201d Amer. J. Anesthesiol. 25:158-162; Muramatsu, T. et al. (1998) \u201cIVE: A PACMONGTTTOLA,\u201d Int. J. Mol. Med. 1:55-62; Garrison J. (1998) \u201cI: AAD-DS,\u201d Med. Device Technol. 9:32-36; Banga A. K. et al. (1998) \u201cATPOSEFTDOP- AG-BD,\u201d Trends Biotechnol. 16:408-412; Banga A. K. et al. (1999) \u201cIAE: CAC,\u201d Int. J. Pharm. 179:1-19; Neumann E. et al. (1999) \u201cFOEDODAG,\u201d Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 48:3-16; and Heiser, W. C. (2000) \u201cOECFTTOMC,\u201d Methods Mol. Biol. 130:117-134.","The nature of the electric field generated in accordance with such methods is determined by the nature of the tissue, the size of the selected tissue and its location. The use of insufficient or excessive field strength is to be avoided. As used herein, a field strength is excessive if it results in the lysing of cells. A field strength is insufficient if it results in a reduction of efficacy of 90% relative to the maximum efficacy obtainable. The electrodes may be mounted and manipulated in many ways known in the art. The waveform of the electrical signal provided by the pulse generator can be an exponentially decaying pulse, a square pulse, a unipolar oscillating pulse train or a bipolar oscillating pulse train. The waveform, electric field strength and pulse duration are dependent upon the type of cells and the DNA that are to enter the cells via electrical-mediated delivery and thus are determined by those skilled in the art in consideration of these criteria. Any number of known devices may be used for delivering polynucleotides and generating the desired electric field. Examples of suitable devices include, but are not limited to, a single needle probe, a bipolar probe and a combination needle and plate probe. Alternatively, methods such as continuous-flow electroporation may be employed (See, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,485,961; 6,090,617; 6,074,605; 5,720,921; 5,612,207; and 5,098,843).","The compositions of the present invention can be lyophilized to produce pharmaceutical compositions in a dried form for ease in transportation and storage. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be stored in a sealed vial, ampule or the like. In the case where the pharmaceutical composition is in a dried form, the composition is dissolved or suspended (e.g., in sterilized distilled water) before administration. An inert carrier such as saline or phosphate buffered saline or any such carrier in which the pharmaceutical compositions has suitable solubility, may be used.","Further, the pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared in the form of a mixed composition that contains one or more additional constituents so long as such additional constituents do not interfere with the effectiveness of the p21 inhibitor and the side effects and adverse reactions are not increased additively or synergistically. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be associated with chemical moieties which may improve the composition's solubility, absorption, biological half life, etc. The moieties may alternatively decrease the toxicity of the pharmaceutical compositions, eliminate or attenuate any undesirable side effect of the pharmaceutical compositions, etc. Moieties capable of mediating such effects are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (1980). Procedures for coupling such moieties to a molecule are well known in the art.","Determining an effective amount of a composition depends upon a number of factors including, for example, the chemical structure and biological activity of the substance, the age and weight of the subject, the precise condition requiring treatment and its severity, and the route of administration. Based on the above factors, determining the precise amount, number of doses, and timing of doses are within the ordinary skill in the art and will be readily determined by the attending physician or veterinarian.","In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are administered free from association with liposomal formulations, charged lipids, or transfection-facilitating viral particles. In another embodiment, the compositions of the present invention are administered free from association with any delivery vehicle now known in the art that can facilitate entry into cells.","As used herein, \u201cex vivo\u201d cells are cells into which the pharmaceutical compositions are introduced, for example, by transfection, lipofection, electroporation, bombardment, or microinjection. The cells containing the pharmaceutical compositions are then administered in vivo into mammalian tissue (see, for example, see Belldegrun, A., et al. (1993) \u201cHRCLTWI-2 A\/OIAG(S): IFLCV,\u201d J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 85: 207-216; Ferrantini, M. et al. (1993) \u201cA1-IGTIMFLCATIIM: ATBMOI\u2014PC,\u201d Cancer Research 53:1107-1112; Ferrantini, M. et al. (1994) \u201cIFN-A1 GEIA MMA(TS\/A) RICD8 T C-MTRADOAi. CSWIFN-G-PTS\/A C,\u201d J. Immunology 153:460-44615; Kaido, T. et al. (1995) \u201cIFN-A1 GTCATTOMB 16 MCIADBA\/2 MADTTISC57BL\/6 M,\u201d Int. J. Cancer 60: 221-229; Ogura, H. et al. (1990) \u201cIOGMFIMAA-IT,\u201d Cancer Research 50:5102-5106; Santodonato, L. et al. (1996) \u201cCOMWEMFLCTBA CTWTCEBI-1 AHSTKFBG,\u201d Human Gene Therapy 7:1-10; Santodonato, L., et al. (1997) \u201cLASARACTOMMTWTCEIFN-AAH: PFTGOCV,\u201d Gene Therapy 4:1246-1255; and Zhang, J. F. et al. (1996) \u201cGTWAA-AVCAIGRITGSAR,\u201d Cancer Gene Therapy 3:31-38.","In the \u201clocal delivery\u201d embodiment of the present invention, a pharmaceutical composition is administered in vivo, such that the p21 inhibitor is incorporated into the local cells at the site of administration. The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered either within ex vivo cells or free of ex vivo cells or ex vivo cellular material. Preferably, the polynucleotide construct is administered free of ex vivo cells or ex vivo cellular material.","The pharmaceutical compositions can be solubilized in a buffer prior to administration. Suitable buffers include, for example, phosphate buffered saline (PBS), normal saline, Tris buffer, and sodium phosphate vehicle (100-150 mM preferred). Insoluble polynucleotides can be solubilized in a weak acid or base, and then diluted to the desired volume with a neutral buffer such as PBS. The pH of the buffer is suitably adjusted, and moreover, a pharmaceutically acceptable additive can be used in the buffer to provide an appropriate osmolarity within the lipid vesicle. Preferred salt solutions and auxiliary agents are disclosed herein.","A systemic delivery embodiment is particularly preferred for treating non-localized disease conditions. A local delivery embodiment can be particularly useful for treating disease conditions that might be responsive to high local concentration. When advantageous, systemic and local delivery can be combined. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,589,466, 5,693,622, 5,580,859, 5,703,055, and PCT publication WO94\/29469 provide methods for delivering compositions comprising naked DNA, or DNA cationic lipid complexes to mammals.","Compositions used in the present invention can be formulated according to known methods. Suitable preparation methods are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 16Edition, A. Osol, ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1980), and Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 19Edition, A. R. Gennaro, ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1995), both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Although the composition is preferably administered as an aqueous solution, it can be formulated as an emulsion, gel, solution, suspension, lyophilized form, or any other form known in the art. According to the present invention, if the composition is formulated other than as an aqueous solution, it will require resuspension in an aqueous solution prior to administration. In addition, the composition may contain pharmaceutically acceptable additives including, for example, diluents, binders, stabilizers, and preservatives.","The present invention also provides kits for use in treating HIV infection comprising an administration means and a container means containing a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Preferably, the container in which the composition is packaged prior to use will comprise a hermetically sealed container enclosing an amount of the lyophilized formulation or a solution containing the formulation suitable for a pharmaceutically effective dose thereof, or multiples of an effective dose. The composition is packaged in a sterile container, and the hermetically sealed container is designed to preserve sterility of the pharmaceutical formulation until use. Optionally, the container can be associated with administration means and\/or instruction for use.","Having now generally described the invention, the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples, which are provided by way of illustration, and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention, unless specified.","A. Purification of Human Monocytes by Counterflow Centrifugal Elutriation","Human peripheral blood cells are obtained by leukapheresis from normal volunteers in the Department of Transfusion Medicine at the National Institutes of Health (Bethesda, Md.) and diluted in endotoxin-free PBS without Ca and Mg (BioWhittaker, Walkersville, Md.) for density sedimentation. The monocytes in the mononuclear cell layer are purified by counterflow centrifugal elutriation within 4 hr after leukapheresis (Wahl, S. M. et al. (1984) \u201cIOHMCSBCCE(CCE). II. FPOB-L-, T-L-, AM-EF. Cell Immunol 85:384-395).","B. HIV-1 Infection of Human Monocyte-Derived Macrophages","Monocytes are plated in 6 well plates (Corning Costar Corporation, Cambridge, Mass.), at 6\u00d710cells\/well or in Lab-Tek chamber slides (Naperville, Ill.) at 1.5\u00d710\/chamber in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) with 2 mM L-glutamine and 10 \u03bcg\/ml gentamicin (BioWhittaker) or in other suitable vessels. After adherence (4-6 hr at 37\u00b0 C. and 5% CO), 10% human AB-serum (Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.) is added to the culture medium. Cells are cultured 5-10 days to allow differentiation into macrophages before being infected with HIV-1TCID=1000-5000 (Advanced Biotechnologies Inc., Columbia, Md.) or other M tropic (R5) virus for 90 minutes at 37\u00b0 C. The levels of endotoxin are below the limit of detection in virus preparations. Unbound virus is removed by washing the cells with media and refeeding with complete DMEM containing 10% human serum. Control populations of adherent macrophages are mock-infected and cultured in parallel. Every 3 to 4 days, half the medium is removed for virus assay and replaced with fresh complete medium for two weeks. Supernatant p24 antigen is assayed using the p24 core profile enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit (Perkin-Elmer Life Sciences, Wilmington, Del.). As described below, in certain experiments, macrophages are pre-treated with 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO) or a CDDO analog (di-CDDO) for 45 minutes prior to exposure to HIV-1. Additionally, macrophages are treated with p21 anti-sense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.\u20037:","5\u2032-TGTCAGGCTGGTCTGCCTCC-3\u2032(oligo\u20031),"]},{"entry":["and",{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.\u20039:","5\u2032-ACATCACCAGGATTGGACAT-3\u2032(oligo\u20032)"]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO.\u200314:","5\u2032-TGGATCCGACATGTCAGA-3\u2032(oligo\u20033)"]}}}}},"br":{}},"C. Northern Blot Analysis and RNase Protection Assay (RPA)","Total cellular RNA is extracted from adherent control or infected monocytes with the RNeasy minikit (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) and analyzed by northern blot (Wahl, S. M. et al. (1998) \u201cMACAMHIV-1 PAICCR5 E. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 95:12574-12579) using an HIV-full length probe (NIH AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program) and GAPDH (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, Md.). For the RPA 3 \u03bcg of RNA is evaluated using the hStress tRiboquant Multi-Probe RPA system (BD Pharmingen, San Diego, Calif.) and densities are normalized to the GAPDH gene using ImageQuant (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, Calif.)","D. cDNA Expression Array","The Altlas human cDNA Expression Array 1.2 I (Clontech, Palo Alto, Calif.) (catalog #7850-1) is performed using 5 \u03bcg of DNase digested total RNA as described by Greenwell-Wild, T. et al. (2002) \u201cMAIMHMGE.\u201d J Immunol 169:6286-6297. Gene expression in infected cells is compared with the corresponding control population from the same donor expressed as a ratio (fold change) after normalization to housekeeping genes. A total of seven different donors are analyzed.","E. Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM)","Gluteraldehyde-fixed uninfected and infected cells are postfixed in OsO, dehydrated through graded ethanol and propylene oxide, embedded in Spurr's epoxy, and thick- and thin-sectioned. Thin sections are placed on copper grids, stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and viewed in a Zeiss EM10 microscope (LEO Electron Microscope; Oberkochen, Germany).","F. Immunofluorescence Microscopy","Uninfected and HIV-1 infected macrophages that have been cultured for twelve days are washed twice with PBS, fixed with 2% paraformaldehyde in PBS, washed and incubated in 100 mM glycine in PBS for 20 min, followed by 0.5% Triton-X-100 for 10 min and rinsed with PBS. Cells are then labeled with rabbit anti-p21 antibody at 5 \u03bcg\/ml (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, Calif.) in PBS containing 5% donkey serum (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, Inc., West Grove, Pa.) for 1 hr, washed extensively, then incubated with Texas-Red conjugated secondary antibody at 3 \u03bcg\/ml at room temperature (Molecular Probes, Eugene, Oreg.). Non-specific background is determined using an irrelevant rabbit isotype control antibody and secondary antibody alone at the same concentrations above. Images are captured using a Leica TCS-4D confocal microscope system with a Kr\u2014Ar laser on a DMR upright microscope using a 40\u00d7, 1.0 numerical aperture objective. Fluorescence intensity analysis is performed using confocal microscopy and Metamorph analysis (Universal Imaging, Downington, Pa.).","G. Immunoprecipitation and Western Blot Analysis","Whole cell lysates are generated using a lysis buffer that consisted of 1% Nonidet P-40, 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH, 7.5), 10 mM NaF, 10 mM NaPPi, 2.5 nM EDTA, 1 mM NaVO, 0.2 mM 3, 4 dichloroisocoumarin, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 100 ug\/ml chymostatin and 1\u00d7 complete protease inhibitor (Boehringer Mannheim, Indianapolis, Ind.). CDKN1A is immunoprecipitated from cell lysates using an anti-CDKN1A antibody conjugated to agarose (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and incubated with constant rotation at 4\u00b0 C. for 2 hours. Immunoprecipitates are electrophoresed onto Tricine gels (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.), transferred to nitrocellulose membrane and immunoblotted with anti-CDKN1A (BD Pharmingen). Immunoblots are developed using enhanced chemiluminescence and the Super-Signal substrate according to manufacturer's instructions (Pierce Chemical Co, Rockford, Ill.).","A. Kinetics of HIV-1 Replication in Adherent Macrophages","Elutriated monocytes are adhered for 7 days, exposed to an R5HIVfor 90 minutes, washed and the kinetics of cellular and viral changes are monitored. HIV-1 RNA is typically detected on day 5, becoming increasingly apparent by 10-16 days after initial exposure to the virus (). In parallel, detectable p24 antigen becomes evident within 5 days, then increases dramatically (). Ultrastructurally, viral particles are not be seen in the adherent macrophages at day 1-5, although an increase in binucleated cells and then an increasing frequency of multinucleated cells can be observed (). Consistent with viral RNA and p24 antigen, virus is visibly detected by electron microscopy around day 7 (; ) with \u226770% of the cells typically harboring large numbers of virions by day 10 (; ). HIV-1 is being produced on the complex surfaces between cells, on the free surfaces and in cytoplasmic vacuoles of the Golgi apparatus. Nonetheless, once the majority of cells are infected and large numbers of virions are present within and on the surface of the macrophages, p24 levels plateau, likely dependent on host factors.","B. Initial Gene Expression In HIV-1-Infected Macrophage Populations","To examine the host factors underlying viral propagation, transcriptional pathways that are activated downstream of the CD4-HIV-1 co-receptor binding\/signaling event are examined by cDNA expression arrays. Compared with the control mock-infected macrophage population, an early and transient gene expression profile occurs, followed by a delayed pattern that emerges in association with viral replication. Within 3-6 hours upregulated genes defined as exhibiting a \u22672 fold increase above baseline in \u22674 donors (134 of 1200 interrogated) are associated predominantly with signal transduction pathways (24%) and transcription (25%) (), many consistent with downstream effects of engaging the G protein signaling pathway. Genes corresponding to the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) family are increased, including p38 MAPK and MAPKA-K2.","In addition to genes involved in transcription and signal transduction, multiple genes associated with cell cycle, apoptosis, and cellular recruitment (Table 1), including chemokines (IL-8, MCP-1, and MRP14) involve viral replication (Lane, B. R. et al. (2001) \u201cI-8 SHIVT1 RAIA PNTFAT,\u201d J Virol 75:8195-8202; Cinque, P. et al. (1998) \u201cECFLOMCP-1 CWHIV-1 EALVR,\u201d Aids 12:1327-1332; Strasser, F. et al. (1997) \u201cESMIF-P(MRP) 8\/14 LIAHIV IADDE,\u201d J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 16:230-238) are upregulated. Enhanced surface adhesion molecules VNRA, CD11c, ICAM1, FNRA, CD44, ITGAE can influence HIV infection, virion interaction with the target cell and syncytium formation (Shattock, R. J. et al. (1996) \u201cEHIV RIMCFEOAMACWST C,\u201d Res Virol 147:171-179) and also an incorporation into HIV virions (Guo, M. M. et al. (1995) \u201cHIV AFARFHC,\u201d AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 11: 1007-1013).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Early HIV-1 Upregulated Macrophage Gene Expression"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["GenBank Accession","Gene","Average Fold"]},{"entry":["Number","Description","Increase"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Signal Transduction"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M36430","GNBI","5.0"]},{"entry":["X15014","Ral A","3.3"]},{"entry":["D26309","LIMK -1","3.1"]},{"entry":["M14631","GNAS","3.0"]},{"entry":["L35253","MAP kinase p38","3.0"]},{"entry":["L29511","GRB2","2.7"]},{"entry":["AF068920","SHOC 2","2.5"]},{"entry":["L25080","Ras homolog A (RhoA)","2.5"]},{"entry":["AF055581","LNK adaptor","2.4"]},{"entry":["X17576","NCK melanoma cytoplasmic","2.3"]},{"entry":[{},"src\/homolog",{}]},{"entry":["M98343","Cortactin (ems-I)","2.3"]},{"entry":["M65066","PRKAR1B","2.3"]},{"entry":["U10550","Gem (ras family)","2.2"]},{"entry":["U78576","PI4P5 kinase alpha","2.2"]},{"entry":["U12779","MAPKAP kinase 2","2.2"]},{"entry":["M19922","INT2","2.1"]},{"entry":["X15219","SnoN","2.1"]},{"entry":["M29870","Rac1","2.1"]},{"entry":["M28213","Rab2","2.1"]},{"entry":["U24166","EB1","2.1"]},{"entry":["L20321","Serine\/threonine kinase NRK2","2.1"]},{"entry":["M34181","PKC beta","2.1"]},{"entry":["X60957","Tyrosine kinase receptor Tie-l","2.0"]},{"entry":["L05624","MAPKK1","2.0"]},{"entry":["X03484","Raf1 protooncogene","2.0"]},{"entry":["L22075","G13","2.0"]},{"entry":["X94991","Zyxin 2","2.0"]},{"entry":["M63960","PPlalpha","2.0"]},{"entry":["X06318","PKC beta 1","2.0"]},{"entry":["M77234","Fte-l","2.0"]},{"entry":["X08004","Rap1b","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Transcription"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["U10323","NF45","3.6"]},{"entry":["L19871","Activating factor 3 (ATF3)","3.1"]},{"entry":["U12979","Activated RNA polymerase n","2.9"]},{"entry":[{},"transcriptional coactivator p15",{}]},{"entry":[{},"(PC4)",{}]},{"entry":["M81601","Transcription elongation factor SII","2.8"]},{"entry":["M29038","Stem cell protein","2.8"]},{"entry":["D90209","Activating factor 4 (ATF4)","2.8"]},{"entry":["M34079","TAT binding protein (TBP-1)","2.7"]},{"entry":["L34587","RNA polymerase II Elongation","2.6"]},{"entry":[{},"factor SIII p15 subunit",{}]},{"entry":["L04282","CACCC-box DNA binding protein","2.6"]},{"entry":["U22431","Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha","2.5"]},{"entry":["L23959","E2F dimerization partner 1 (DP1)","2.5"]},{"entry":["M83234","NSEP","2.5"]},{"entry":["S40706","GADD153","2.4"]},{"entry":["M96824","nucleobindin precursor (NUC)","2.4"]},{"entry":["M36717","Ribonuclease\/angiogenin inhibitor","2.4"]},{"entry":[{},"(RAI)",{}]},{"entry":["D26156","SW1\/SNF-related actin-dependent","2.3"]},{"entry":[{},"regulator of chromatin",{}]},{"entry":["X69391","60s ribosomal protein (RPL6)","2.3"]},{"entry":["X59738","Zinc finger x-chromosomal protein","2.3"]},{"entry":["M59079","CBF-B","2.2"]},{"entry":["M96944","PAX5","2.2"]},{"entry":["AF084199","PRDI-BFl (transcription repressor","2.2"]},{"entry":[{},"protein)",{}]},{"entry":["M97796","Inhibitor of DNA binding 2 (ID2)","2.2"]},{"entry":["U07418","MutL protein homolog 1 (MLH1)","2.2"]},{"entry":["AF060222","DNase II","2.2"]},{"entry":["U58198","Interleukin enhancer binding factor","2.1"]},{"entry":[{},"(ILF)",{}]},{"entry":["Z36715","Elk-3","2.1"]},{"entry":["AF032119","CASK","2.1"]},{"entry":["M97935","STAT1 alpha\/beta","2.1"]},{"entry":["Z30094","Basic transcription factor 2","2.1"]},{"entry":[{},"(BTF2p44)",{}]},{"entry":["J04111","jun protooncogene, AP-1","2.1"]},{"entry":["D26155","Transcriptional activator (hsnF2a)","2.0"]},{"entry":["M80397","DNA polymerase delta catalytic","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"subunit",{}]},{"entry":["AF076974","Transformation\/transcription","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"domain associated protein",{}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Cell Cycle\/Apoptosis"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["U13737","Caspase 3","2.2"]},{"entry":["L29222","CDC-like kinase (CLK1)","2.1"]},{"entry":["AF071596","IEX-IL anti-death protein","2.1"]},{"entry":["M15796","Proliferating cyclic nuclear antigen","2.1"]},{"entry":[{},"(PCNA)",{}]},{"entry":["X96586","FAN protein","2.1"]},{"entry":["U28014","Caspase-4","2.1"]},{"entry":["Z23115","bcl-x","2.0"]},{"entry":["U09579","cyclin-dependent kinase","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"inhibitor IA (CDKNIA)",{}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Adhesion Molecules\/Receptors"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M14648","Vitronectin receptor alpha","3.3"]},{"entry":[{},"(VNRA)",{}]},{"entry":["J03132","Intercellular adhesion molecule 1","3.1"]},{"entry":[{},"(ICAM1)",{}]},{"entry":["M81695","CDI1c antigen","2.5"]},{"entry":["X06256","Fibronectin receptor alpha (FNRA)","2.5"]},{"entry":["D84657","Photolyase\/blue-light receptor","2.4"]},{"entry":[{},"homolog",{}]},{"entry":["X07979","Fibronectin receptor beta (FNRB)","2.7"]},{"entry":["D13866","Alpha 1 catenin","2.4"]},{"entry":["X72304","Corticotropin releasing factor","2.4"]},{"entry":[{},"receptor 1",{}]},{"entry":["M59911","Integrin alpha 3 (ITGA3)","2.3"]},{"entry":["M37722","Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1","2.2"]},{"entry":["L25851","Integrin alpha E (ITGAE)","2.1"]},{"entry":["M27492","IL-1 receptor type I","2.0"]},{"entry":["J04536","Leukosialin","2.0"]},{"entry":["X01057","IL2R alpha","2.0"]},{"entry":["M59040","CD44 antigen","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Chemokines\/Cytokines"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Y00787","Interleukin-8","9.7"]},{"entry":["M65291","Interleukin-12 alpha","5.0"]},{"entry":["M24545","Monocyte chemotactic protein 1","4.5"]},{"entry":[{},"(MCP-1)",{}]},{"entry":["X06233","Migration inhibitory factor-related","3.8"]},{"entry":[{},"protein 14 (MRP14)",{}]},{"entry":["M92381","Thymosin beta 10","3.7"]},{"entry":["MI7733","Thymosin beta 4","3.6"]},{"entry":["X01394","Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF","3.4"]},{"entry":[{},"alpha)",{}]},{"entry":["X53655","Neurotrophin-3 precursor","2.6"]},{"entry":["M21121","Small inducible protein A5","2.5"]},{"entry":[{},"(SCYA5)",{}]},{"entry":["M86492","Glia maturation factor beta","2.2"]},{"entry":["M31145","Insulin-like growth factor binding","2.2"]},{"entry":[{},"protein 1",{}]},{"entry":["M27288","Oncostatin M (OSM)","2.1"]},{"entry":["U13699","IL-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE)","2.1"]},{"entry":["U16296","T-lymphoma-invasion &","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"metastasis inducing (TIAM1)",{}]},{"entry":["M25667","Neuromodulin","2.0"]},{"entry":["X02530","Interferon gamma-induced protein","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"(IP-IO)",{}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Proteases\/Protease Inhibitors"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M11233","Cathepsin D","3.2"]},{"entry":["J05070","Matrix metalloproteinase 9","3.1"]},{"entry":[{},"(MMP9)",{}]},{"entry":["X56692","C reactive protein","2.9"]},{"entry":["AF059244","Cystatin related protein","2.8"]},{"entry":["X05562","Procollagen alpha 2","2.5"]},{"entry":["L23808","Matrix metalloproteinase 12","2.2"]},{"entry":["D00762","Proteasome C8","2.1"]},{"entry":["Z81326","Protease inhibitor 12","2.0"]},{"entry":["L40377","Cytoplasmic antiprotease 2","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"(CAP2)",{}]},{"entry":["M23254","Calpain 2","2.0"]},{"entry":["X04106","Calpain","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Metabolism"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["U03688","dioxin inducible cytochrome p450","4.5"]},{"entry":[{},"(CYP1A1)",{}]},{"entry":["X06985","Heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1)","4.2"]},{"entry":["U34683","Glutathione synthetase","3.0"]},{"entry":["X07270","90-kDa heat-shock protein A","2.7"]},{"entry":["U29091","Selenium binding protein","2.7"]},{"entry":["L14595","Neural amino acid transporter A","2.6"]},{"entry":[{},"(SATT)",{}]},{"entry":["DO0099","Na+\/K+ transporting ATPase","2.4"]},{"entry":[{},"alpha 1",{}]},{"entry":["M74524","Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme","2.3"]},{"entry":[{},"(UBE2A)",{}]},{"entry":["X91247","Thioredoxin reductase","2.3"]},{"entry":["X54079","27-kDa heat-shock protein","2.2"]},{"entry":["Ml1717","70-kDa heat shock protein 1","2.1"]},{"entry":["L20046","Xeroderma pigmentosum group G","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"complementing protein",{}]},{"entry":["Y00264","Alzheimer's disease amyloid A4","2.0"]},{"entry":[{},"protein"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Although gene expression for caspases 3, 4 and 8 is increased, genes encoding factors that contribute to cellular resistance to apoptosis including IEX-1L and bcl-x (Wu, M. X. et al. (1998) \u201cIEX-1L, AAIIINF-KB-MCS, Science 281:998-1001; Antonsson, B. et al. (2000) \u201cT-2 PF,\u201d Exp Cell Res 256:50-57) are concurrently elevated (Table 1). As reported, IL-2 receptor mRNA is also enhanced in HIV-infected macrophages (Allen, J. B. et al. (1990) \u201cEOI2 RBMFPWAISAIOMI2 RBHIVIV,\u201d J Clin Invest 85:192-199). Another gene upregulated in infected cells within hours and at day 1 is CYP1A1, previously associated with enhanced HIV-1 gene expression in vitro and with acceleration in the progression of AIDS mediated by an oxidative stress pathway Yao, Y. et al. (1995) \u201cDAHIV-1 GEBAOSPRA FCP450 CYP1A1 E,\u201d Environ Health Perspect 103:366-71). However, the augmented transcriptional activity for heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a multifunctional protein that plays a role in the regulation of cellular heme, could protect these viral host cells against oxidative stress and is increased in PBMC of AIDS patients (Levere, R. D. et al. (1993) \u201cELOHO-1 AAmRNA IPBACOAISP,\u201d Am J Hematol 43, 19-23).","HO-1, together with increased glutathione synthetase (Table 1) may help provide a balance and protect the macrophage from oxidative stress generated by the virus (Mialocq, P. et al. (2001) \u201cOMOHIV-IM: TROGAA PA,\u201d Pathol Biol (Paris) 49:567-571; Toborek, M. et al. (2003) \u201cHIV-TPIOAIPIBE,\u201d J Neurochem 84:169-179). Furthermore, transcription for the host cell Tat binding protein (TBP-1) that interacts with viral Tat is rapidly elevated in HIV infected macrophages) Nelbock, P. et al. (1990) \u201cA CFA PTIWTHIVTT,\u201d Science 248:1650-1653 (1990). In the early virus-induced transcriptional events, HIV-1 clearly enhances more genes than it suppresses since only tripeptidyl peptidase I, a lysosomal serine protease with a minor endoprotease activity responsible for cleaving tripeptides from the N terminus of oligopeptides (Tomkinson, B. (1999) \u201cTP: ETC,\u201d Trends Biochem Sci 24:355-359) is reproducibly suppressed. Since this protein is involved in protein turnover, control of its expression in the host cell could benefit the virus to ensure that infection is established.","C. Kinetics of HIV-1 Induced Gene Expression","The initial pattern of expression observed following binding of HIV-1 to macrophages in 4-7 donors, consistent with receptor engagement, is transient and by 24 hr, a restricted number of genes remain or are newly elevated (Table 2).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Genes Upregulated in Macrophages from"},{"entry":"Day 1-14 after HIV-1 Infection"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["GenBank",{},{}]},{"entry":["Accession",{},"Fold"]},{"entry":["Number","Gene Description","Increase"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Day 1"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M17733","thymosin beta 4","4.6"]},{"entry":["X15480","glutathione S-transferase pi","3.4"]},{"entry":["X12451","cathepsin L","3.0"]},{"entry":["M24545","monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1)","2.7"]},{"entry":["L16785","nucleoside diphosphate kinase B","2.7"]},{"entry":["X93499","ras-related protein RAB-7","2.5"]},{"entry":["U07418","mutL protein homolog1 (MLH1)","2.4"]},{"entry":["M15796","proliferating cyclic nuclear antigen (PCNA)","2.4"]},{"entry":["M83234","nuclease sensitive element (NSEP)","2.3"]},{"entry":["D10495","protein kinase C delta","2.3"]},{"entry":["Z29678","microphthalmia-assoc. transc. factor(MITF)","2.3"]},{"entry":["X04106","Calpain","2.3"]},{"entry":["X02920","alpha-1-antiproteinase","2.2"]},{"entry":["M19922","INT-2 proto-oncogene protein","2.2"]},{"entry":["L41816","calcium\/calmodulin-dependent protein","2.2"]},{"entry":[{},"kinase I(camki)",{}]},{"entry":["X79067","EGF response factor 1","2.1"]},{"entry":["U18840","myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein","2.1"]},{"entry":["U03688","CYP1B1","2.1"]},{"entry":["X69391","60S ribosomal protein L6 (RPL6)","2.1"]},{"entry":["M92381","thymosin beta-10","2.1"]},{"entry":["K02770","interleukin-1 beta","2.1"]},{"entry":["X06233","calgranulin B","2.0"]},{"entry":["M97796","inhibitor of DNA binding 2 protein","2.0"]},{"entry":["M59911","integrin alpha 3 (ITGA3)","2.0"]},{"entry":["AF055581","lnk adaptor protein","2.0"]},{"entry":["X67951","thioredoxin peroxidase 2 (TDPX2)","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Day 3"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["D88378","proteasome inhibitor HPI31","8.3"]},{"entry":["D28118","ZNF 161","2.6"]},{"entry":["M26708","prothymosin alpha","2.1"]},{"entry":["J05070","matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9)","2.0"]},{"entry":["M29366","ERBB-3 receptor","2.0"]},{"entry":["U09579","CDKN1A","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Day 5"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M24545","monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1)","2.3"]},{"entry":["M14631","guanine nucleotide-binding protein(GNAS)","2.2"]},{"entry":["X04106","Calpain","2.1"]},{"entry":["U07418","mutL protein homolog1 (MLH1)","2.1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Day 7"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Y00796","integrin alpha L (ITGAL)","8.7"]},{"entry":["X15014","Ral A; GTP-binding protein","3.5"]},{"entry":["U09579","CDKN1A","3.5"]},{"entry":["L16785","nucleoside diphosphate kinase B","3.1"]},{"entry":["X01057","IL-2 receptor alpha","2.9"]},{"entry":["M29870","Rac1","2.5"]},{"entry":["M23619","high mobility group protein (HMG-I)","2.3"]},{"entry":["X93499","ras related protein RAB-7","2.3"]},{"entry":["U07418","mutL protein homolog1 (MLH1)","2.2"]},{"entry":["D28118","zinc finger protein 161 (ZNF161)","2.2"]},{"entry":["L25080","Ras homolog A (RhoA)","2.1"]},{"entry":["X08020","glutathione S-transferase mul","2.0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Day 14"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["U09579","CDKN1A","7.9"]},{"entry":["U07418","mutL protein homolog1 (MLH1)","3.8"]},{"entry":["U48296","nuclear tyrosine phosphatase (PRL1)","3.7"]},{"entry":["U12779","MAPKAP Kinase 2","3.3"]},{"entry":["D15057","defender against cell death 1(DAD1)","3.2"]},{"entry":["J04111","jun proto-oncogene","3.1"]},{"entry":["L07597","S6KII alpha 1","3.1"]},{"entry":["M23619","high mobility group protein (HMG-I)","2.8"]},{"entry":["X69391","60s ribosomal protein L6","2.5"]},{"entry":["L25080","Ras homolog A (RhoA)","2.5"]},{"entry":["U12979","PC4","2.5"]},{"entry":["X08804","ras-related protein RAP-1B","2.4"]},{"entry":["M74524","ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2","2.2"]},{"entry":["M17733","thymosin beta 4","2.2"]},{"entry":["U28014","caspase 4","2.2"]},{"entry":["U51004","PKC inhibitor 1","2.2"]},{"entry":["U08316","S6KII alpha 3","2.0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Of considerable interest are the limited detectable alterations in gene expression in the cells between 3-5 days after infection, preceding evidence of viral replication. Concomitant with evidence of the HIV replicative cycle (), a resurgence of gene expression begins to manifest (Table 2, days 7-14). Albeit the majority of cells are maximally producing HIV by day 10-16 (), only a limited repertoire of genes is upregulated compared to control macrophages (Table 2). Among these are several G-protein related molecules, which could reflect cell-cell transmission and HIV-1 induced signaling. MutL protein homolog 1 (MLH1), a component of the DNA mismatch repair gene (Modrich, P. (1997) \u201cS-SMRIMC,\u201d J Biol Chem 272:24727-30) is also increased consistently, not only within a few hours of encountering the virus (Table 1), but during the progression of infection (days 1, 5, 7 and 14) (Table 2). This protein could be playing a role in aiding to repair DNA damage after viral integration into the host and thus preserving genome stability to continue the viral life cycle. Furthermore, transcription of the anti-apoptotic gene DAD1 (Hong, N. A. et al. (2000) \u201cMLD1, TDAAD1, EAN-LGAUIEA. Dev Biol 220:76-84) is enhanced at the peak of viral replication. Although the proteasome inhibitor HPI31 subunit (Table 2) is elevated at 3 days after infection, it is dramatically decreased during replication, consistent with evidence that proteasome activity is essential for viral maturation (Schubert, U. et al. (2000) \u201cPIIWGPP, R, AMOHIV-1 AHIV-2,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97:13057-13062). This may reflect a tight control of the macrophage metabolism to regulate protein turnover at this late stage of infection to preserve integrity of viral protein or host cell factors necessary for efficient virion maturation and release (Schubert, U. et al. (2000) \u201cPIIWGPP, R, AMOHIV-1 AHIV-2,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97:13057-13062).","D. Increased CDKN1a Gene and Protein Expression in Virus Infected Macrophages","Although all of the virus-induced genes discussed above can be exploited as targets for drugs that would inhibit HIV-1 propagation, the unique biphasic expression pattern of CDKN1A makes it a preferred gene for inhibiting HIV, but does not rule out the additional genes as potential regulatory candidates. Because it is rapidly upregulated following HIV-1 binding\/entry and then again during the emergence of viral replication (), this gene is selected for further study. RNAse protection assay (RPA) confirmed the rapid induction of CDKN1A (; ), followed by maximum expression concomitant with viral infection with no corresponding changes in another cell cycle related gene p53. Macrophages infected with HIV-1, a laboratory viral isolate (ADA) or a primary clinical isolate (727) that are analyzed for p21 transcription using PCR reveal expression of p21 (). To further explore the relationship between viral infection and p21, p21 protein expression is examined by immunofluorescence. Not only increased nuclear, but also cytoplasmic p21 staining is observed in infected cells (; ), consistent with enhanced protein expression in whole cell lysates detected by western blot ().","To determine whether the increased p21 influenced viral life cycle, the cells are treated with two distinct p21 anti-sense oligonucleotides (SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 9). Both oligonucleotides reduce viral replication as assessed by p24 levels, most evident at day 12 when untreated cells show substantial HIV-1 production. In contrast, a missense control oligonucleotide (SEQ ID NO. 13) did not suppress HIV-1 p24 (). The oligonucleotides have no negative effect on cell viability in infected or uninfected macrophage cultures as determined by cell number, morphology and ultrastuctural analysis. Moreover, the p21 oligos have no direct effect on macrophage CD4 nor CCR5.","E. Effect of CDDO on HIV-1 Replication","The ability of p21 oligonucleotides to block HIV-1 replication prompted the exploration of potential therapeutically relevant mechanisms of modulating p21 to inhibit HIV-1. It has been reported that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR\u03b3) ligands, one of which includes the synthetic triterpenoid CDDO, modulate p21 activity (Wang, Y. et al. (2000) \u201cA 2--3,12--1,9--28-(CDDO), -,\u201d Mol Endocrinol 14:1550-1556); Wakino, S. et al. (2001) \u201cP-21 (C1) C,\u201d J Biol Chem 276, 47650-47657). To examine the effect of this synthetic triterpenoid, CDDO (0.1 \u03bcM) and its derivative di-CDDO are added prior to, or at the time of, infection of macrophages with HIV-1, resulting in a dose dependent suppression in the release of the viral protein p24 Ag (). Without reducing cell viability or cell number, both CDDO and di-CDDO dramatically reduced the levels of detectable virus (; ). Paradoxically, CDDO and di-CDDO variably decrease p21 protein levels concomitant with reducing HIV infection (). Moreover, p21 protein accumulates in uninfected cells, suggesting a post-translational effect on the p21 pathway.  shows the result of an investigation of macrophages infected with HIV-1or ADA and treated or not with CDDO (0.1 \u03bcM) and analyzed by PCR for p21 and GAPDH.  shows the result of an investigation in which supernatants (12 days) collected from HIV-1, ADA or 727 infected cells that were treated or not with CDDO are analyzed for viral replication by p24 ELISA.","Gene silencing was carried out using SMARTpool\u2122 si RNA duplexes (Dharmacon Research, Inc.; Smart Pool siRNA p21 waf1; Catalog No. M-003471-00-05), which targets CDKN1A. A non-specific si RNA pool (Dharmacon) was also utilized as a negative control.","After preparing siRNA:Lipofectamine 2000 complexes cells were transfected according to manufacture's instructions (Invitrogen-Life Technologies). Macrophages were infected after four days of transfection. The results of siRNA for p21 and its effect on HIV infection are shown in .","P21 specific oligonucleotides (SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 9, 50 nM), but not control oligonucleotide (SEQ ID NO. 14) are found to inhibit HIV-1 growth in replicate cultures as determined by p24 levels (day 12 shown) (% of positive HIV control, no oligo treatment) ().","Macrophages were also treated with p21 siRNA duplexes (5 nM) five days prior to HIV infection and the effect on HIV-growth was determined (% of positive HIV control, no siRNA treatment) (representative experiment, n=3) (). The percent of HIV-1 infection was determined comparing the p24 levels in untreated vs oligo or siRNA treated macrophages. Cells treated with p21 and negative control siRNA (5 days) were also analyzed by flow cytometry for CD4 and CCR5 cell surface expression (). Nested PCR was employed in order to detect pro-viral DNA on days 1 and 3 after HIV-1infection in macrophages treated with p21 or control siRNA or negative control si RNA. Control represents uninfected cells ().","The results obtained with the antisense oligonucleotides were confirmed using gene silencing technology. Macrophages treated with CDKN1A si RNA duplexes, show a reduction in HIV-1 replication as determined by p24 ELISA on 14 day supernatants. This is not the case if macrophages are treated with a non-specific si RNA duplex control.","As indicated above, the HIV-1 Vpr gene product has been found to prevent cell proliferation by activating p21 expression (Chowdhury I. H. et al. (2003) \u201cHIV-1 VACCI21\/W1\/C1: PMOG2\/M CCA,\u201d Virol. 305:371-377). Macrophages were treated with Vpr (6 \u03bcg\/ml) for 3 hr and found to show increased gene transcription and protein expression for p21 when treated with Vpr ( and ).","The expression of p21 and GADPH in these cells was evaluated using PCR. For such experiments, macrophages are infected with the wild virus type clone pNLAD8, or pNLAD8 Vpr minus (#1) or pNLAD8-delta R (#2) R5 macrophage tropic viruses and 12 day supernatants analyzed by p24 ELISA (). The total RNA from cells infected with the indicated viruses was analyzed for p21 and GAPDH by PCR (; representative experiment, n=2).","The present invention demonstrates that HIV-1 infection promotes successful viral replication by modulating macrophage gene transcription. In comparison to previous studies, using viral envelope gp120 (Popik, W. et al. (2000) \u201cEOCSBHIV-1: UGWMKTSTE,\u201d Virology 276:1-6; Cicala, C. et al. (2002) \u201cHIV EIA COCSIN-PTCTFVR,\u201d Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99:9380-9385; Liu, Q. H. et al. (2000) \u201cHIV-1 G120 ACAICIPMTCCR5 ACXCR4 S,\u201d Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97:4832-4837), one aspect of the invention relates to the finding that intact, infectious R5HIV-1 induces a cascade of events associated with reproducible alteration of gene transcription in primary macrophage hosts. Consistent with viral binding to CD4 and CCR5 seven transmembrane G protein receptors, viral initiated signal transduction induces transcriptional changes. While the functional significance attributable to each of the 134 genes upregulated within hours after viral binding is complex, the data support an initial burst of transcriptional activity followed by a quiescent phase and a resurgence of new genes associated with viral replication. In addition to phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, HIV-1 enhanced gene expression of p38 MAPK and downstream mediators, such as, MAPKAP-2, which may be critical in early post-entry and late stages of HIV-1 infection (Del Corno, M. et al. (2001) \u201cHIV-1 120 ACAOP2 AM-APKIPMMBC-D, PT-ICRS,\u201d Blood 98:2909-2916; Shapiro, L. et al. (1998) \u201cROP38 M-APKIHIV T1 PIV,\u201d Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95:7422-7426 (1998), and p38 MAPK also plays an important role in multiple aspects of the immune response (Dong, C. et al. (2002) \u201cMAP KITIR,\u201d Ann. Rev. Immunol 20, 55-72 (2002). MAPK also contributes to chemokine expression and recruitment of leukocytes, and inhibition of p38 MAPK reportedly also abrogates gp120-induced MMP9 in T cells (Misse, D. et al. (2001) \u201cHIV-1 G120 ITMMP-9 CFPTIABIOTP38 M-APKSP,\u201d Blood 98:541-547). MMP9, a member of the matrix metalloproteinase gene family is one of the genes expressed at day 3 after viral infection of macrophages that can facilitate the migration of HIV-infected monocytes across the vascular endothelium (Dhawan, S. et al. (1995) \u201cHIV-1 ,\u201d J Immunol 154:422-432 (1995) and has been detected in the cerebrospinal fluids of HIV-1 patients (Sporer, B. et al. (1998) \u201cP-9 -,\u201d J. Infect. Dis. 178:854-857). Recruitment of viral host cells may also occur in response to increased MCP-1 expression consistent with the results obtained by other investigators (Mengozzi, M. et al. (1999) \u201cH-1 U937 ,\u201d Blood 93:1851-1857). Enhanced gene transcription for other inflammatory mediators associated with increased viral replication in macrophages and pathophysiology of HIV, including TNF\u03b1, IP-10, MRP14, IL-8 and LIF (Lane, B. R. et al. (2001) \u201cI-8 SHIVT1 RAIA PNTFAT,\u201d J Virol 75:8195-202; Strasser, F. et al. (1997) \u201cESMIF-RP(MRP) 8\/14 LIAHIV IADDE,\u201d J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 16:230-238); Kinter, A. et al. (2000) \u201cC, CAHIV: A CNOITIHIV P,\u201d Immunol Rev 177:88-98; Agostini, C. et al. (2000) \u201cCXC CIP-10 AMEADMOPCD8+\/CXCR3+T CITLOPWHIV IAT-CA,\u201d Am J Respir Crit. Care Med 162:1466-1473; Broor, S. et al. (1994) \u201cSOHIV RIMPBLIF7:647-654) were also reproducibly detected. Cell homeostasis and genomic stability may be aided by glutathione synthetase, heme oxygenase-1 and MLH1 ensuring the survival of the macrophage to allow viral replication. Furthermore, reduction of lysosomal enzyme activity can potentially enhance virus entry and infectivity in the host cell (Fredericksen, B. L. et al. (2002) \u201cIOE\/LDITIOHIV,\u201d J Virol 76, 11440-11446).","Macrophages can co-exist with the virus for a prolonged time, during which they contribute to the pathogenesis of AIDS, acting as viral reservoirs and transmitting HIV-1 to neighboring cells. Although proapoptotic genes for caspase 3, 4 and 8 were upregulated within 3 hours after infection, the antiapoptotic genes bcl-x, DAD1 and IEX-1L (Wu, M. X. et al. (1998) \u201cIEX-1L, NF-B-,\u201d Science 281:998-1001; Antonsson, B. et al. (2000) \u201cTB-2 PF,\u201d Exp Cell Res 256:50-57; Hong, N. A. et al. (2000) \u201cMLD1-1N-,\u201d Dev Biol 220:76-84), were also increased by HIV-1. The balance between pro and anti-apoptotic genes must favor the survival of virus-infected macrophages in vitro and in vivo, as a strategy developed by the virus to prolong the life of the host for its uninterrupted cycle of replication.","As indicated above, following the initial HIV-1 induced burst of gene expression (6-24 hr), little evidence of transcriptional activity occurred until the onset of viral replication, when an increase in host molecules was again detected (day 7-14). The lack of induction of new host molecules during this interim period may allow the infected cells to escape immune surveillance while the virus initiates its life cycle to commence replication. Once ready to replicate, new transcription may be essential to facilitate the replicative process. For example the data indicate CDKN1A\/p21 as a host molecule critical to viral replication in macrophages. CDKN1A is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor induced during G1 cell cycle arrest by p53-dependent pathway following DNA damage, as well as p53-independent pathways involving growth factors","Dotto, G. P. (2000) \u201cp21(WAF1\/C1): MTA BTTCC?,\u201d Biochim Biophys Acta 1471:M43-56; Ogryzko, V. V. et al. (1997) \u201cWAF1 S-PPPBIOC-DK,\u201d Mol Cell Biol 17, 4877-4882 (1997); Zeng, Y. X. et al. (1996) \u201cR21WAF1\/CIP1 EB53-IP,\u201d Oncogene 12:1557-1564). Progressive upregulation of p21 mRNA and protein have also been associated with maturation of hematopoietic progenitor cells (Steinman, R. A. et al. (1998) \u201cR21 (WAF1) EDNM,\u201d Blood 91:4531-4542), but its connection with viral replication in macrophages has not been demonstrated. Increased p21 in skin lesions of human papillomavirus has been found to be further enhanced by HIV co-infection (Arany, I. et al. (1997) \u201cp53, WAF1\/CIP1 M2 EISLAWHPAHIV,\u201d Anticancer Res 17:1281-1285). An upregulation in CDKN1A induced in macrophages infected with the opportunistic bacteria, (Greenwell-Wild, T. et al. (2002) \u201cMAIMHMGE,\u201d J Immunol 169:6286-6297 (2002) may also be linked to the increased susceptibility for HIV replication reported in these cells (Wahl, S. M. et al. (1998) \u201cMACAMHIV-1 PAICCR5 E,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 95:12574-12579). The specific role played by CDKN1A in HIV-1 macrophage infection has not been fully determined, however, it may either directly or indirectly enhance viral replication. Although originally described as a cell cycle inhibitor, CDKN1A has more recently been associated with apoptosis, cytoplasmic regulation of nuclear import, and transcriptional regulation by its capacity to act as a transcriptional co-factor\/adaptor molecule (Coqueret, O. (2003) \u201cNRFP21 AP27 C-CI: A FFECC?,\u201d Trends Cell Biol 13:65-70; LaBaer, J. et al. (1997) \u201cNFAFT21 FOCDK I,\u201d Genes Dev 11:847-862). In this regard, HIV-1 Tat is essential for efficient viral replication and interacts with cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the transcriptional coactivator p300 (Hottiger, M. O. et al. (1998) \u201cIOHIVT1 TWTTC300 ACREB BP,\u201d J Virol 72:8252-8256), which can be stimulated by the coexpression of CDKN1A through a novel transcriptional repression domain on p300 (Snowden, A. W. et al. (2000) \u201cA NTRDM21(WAF1\/CIP1) IO300 T,\u201d Mol Cell Biol 20, 2676-2686). In addition, an increase in TBP-1 could be a strategy of the virus to ensure efficient regulation of viral transcription and replication. A causal relationship is thus established between HIV and induced p21 expression, which appears to support viral replication in macrophages.","While the initial enhancement of p21 gene expression likely represents a downstream consequence of CCR5\/G protein signaling, the rise in gene transcription could be due to either intracellular or extracellular viral signals. Definition of such factors may provide a means of altering host involvement in viral infection and replication kinetics, possibly in conjunction with antiviral therapy. The presence of p21 in the nucleus has been related to its cell cycle functions (Dotto, G. P. (2000) \u201c21(WAF1\/C1): MTA BTTCC?\u201d Biochim Biophys Acta 1471:M43-56) and the cytoplasmic localization of this protein has been implicated in controlling\/preventing apoptosis of alveolar macrophages and during monocytic differentiation (Tomita, K. et al. (2002) \u201cI21(CIP1\/WAF1) B CLL-X(L) EARAIAMFS,\u201d Am J Respir Crit. Care Med 166:724-731; Asada, M. et al. (1999) \u201cAIAOCP21(C1\/WAF1) IMD,\u201d Embo J 18:1223-1234). Increased p21 protein in both nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments of HIV-1 infected macrophages may both generate a permissive environment for viral replication and prevent the death of the host cells. The ability to dramatically suppress HIV-1 replication with the p21 anti-sense oligonucleotides indicates that CDKN1A is critical in promoting viral replication. CDDO a synthetic oleanane triterpenoid with potent differentiating, anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory activities (Suh, N. et al. (1999) \u201cA NSOT2-C-3,12-D-1,9-D-28-OA, WPD, A, AA-IA,\u201d Cancer Res 59:336-341) being developed as a chemotherapeutic agent for cancer (Stadheim, T. A. et al. (2002) \u201cTNT2--3,12--1,9--28-(CDDO) PEAIBTNFIHLC,\u201d J Biol Chem 277:16448-16455 (2002)) may also inhibit HIV-1 via a p21-dependent pathway, possibly by a post-translational mechanism. CDDO has been recently identified as a member of a new class of nuclear PPAR\u03b3 ligands (Wang, Y. et al. (2000) \u201cA ST2-C-3,12-D-1,9-D-28-OA(CDDO), IA LFTPP-ARG,\u201d Mol Endocrinol 14:1550-1556), which reportedly reduces p21 protein expression (Wakino, S. et al. (2001) \u201cPP-RGLIMIO21(C1) BMTPKC\u03b4 PIVSMC,\u201d J Biol Chem 276:47650-47657). PPAR\u03b3 is a nuclear hormone receptor implicated in the gene regulation of lipid and glucose metabolism, cellular differentiation and control of macrophage inflammatory responses (Bar-Tana, J. (2001) \u201cPP-ARG(P) AAICIH,\u201d Toxicol Lett 120:9-19; Delerive, P. (2001) \u201cPP-ARIIC,\u201d J Endocrinol 169:453-459). Natural and synthetic agonists of PPAR\u03b3 have been recently shown to inhibit retroviral replication (Hayes, M. M. et al. (2002) \u201cPP-ARGAIHIV-1 RIMBTAP-TE,\u201d J Biol Chem 277:16913-16919) and although the target was not defined, some studies have implicated TNF-\u03b1 in the PPAR\u03b3-induced suppression of HIV (Skolnik, P. R. et al. (2002) \u201cSOPP-ARAAGBHIV-1 RATPIAIPBC, CIU1 C, AAMFHIV-IS,\u201d J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 31:1-10). Still unresolved is whether the antiviral effect of CDDO is mediated through this receptor entirely by its effect on p21 function by post-translational modification (Scott, M. T. et al. (2000) \u201cRPATC-TRDO21(W1\/C1) MPCNAB,\u201d J Biol Chem 275:11529-11537), through inhibition of NF\u03baB (Straus, D. S. et al. (2000) \u201c15-D-D12,14-PJ2 IMSITNF-KB SP,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97:4844-4849, modulation of p38 MAPK (Kim, J. Y. et al. (2002) \u201cIO38 M-APKITCGIBSA,\u201d J Cell Physiol 190:29-37 (2002) and\/or the production of cytokines that regulate cellular and viral components, such as TGF-\u03b2 (Li, C. Y. et al. (1995) \u201cPROW1\/C121 AA MOTGF-BCE,\u201d J Biol Chem 270:4971-4974; Wahl, S. M. et al. (1991) \u201cM- AA-DTGFBAA MOCNSDIAIDS,\u201d Exp Med 173:981-991). Comparison of genes upregulated by HIV in T lymphocytes (Corbeil, J. et al. (2001) \u201cTGRDHIV-1 IOHCD4+ T C,\u201d Genome Res 11:1198-1204) with those identified in macrophage hosts also revealed an early increase in genes associated with cellular defense. However, increased expression of proapoptotic transcripts, and inhibition of mitochondria and DNA repair genes are also observed, which could explain the unavoidable death pathway in HIV-1 infected T cells and survival of macrophage hosts. The differential gene expression and cell specific modulation of host protein function as a result of HIV-1 infection in these cell populations may help better understand the reasons leading to HIV-induced apoptosis in T cells (Corbeil, J. et al. (2001) \u201cTGRDHIV-1 IOHCD4+ T C,\u201d Genome Res 11:1198-1204; Clark, E. et al. (2000) \u201cLG(1)\/S IHIVTYPE-1-ICIAWA LOC-DKI21\/W1. J Virol 74, 5040-5052), while allowing the macrophage to sustain a prolonged viral burden.","Since the macrophage represents a key target for HIV-1 infection and one of the major obstacles in eradicating the virus even during HAART (Igarashi, T. et al. (2001) \u201cMATPRASHVLIRMATDOF CD4+ T CBA HPSIV\/HIV T1 C(SHIV): IFHIV-1 IOH,\u201d Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:658-663; Garbuglia, A. R. et al. (2001) \u201cDOVLIPAHIV DNA ILDHAAT(HAART): HVBIMA1 YOT,\u201d J Chemother 13:188-194), the above-described data analyzing the influence of HIV on the macrophage transcriptome reveals important insights into the pattern of host cell gene expression underlying viral success in this population. CDKN1A and other virus-regulated macrophage genes critical for HIV-1 replication provide mechanisms by which to target the macrophage reservoir and\/or serve as prognostic markers of disease progression.","Finally, since anti-HIV therapy is limited by the side effects that have accompanied conventional anti-retroviral drugs, and the constant emergence of drug-resistant HIV strains, CDDO provides an important candidate drug to target HIV-1, particularly in conjunction with additional anti-viral therapy, to prevent or attenuate the infection of new viral hosts.","All publications and patent documents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.","While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A-1D","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1D","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1D"],"sup":"32","smallcaps":["ACROPHAGE","ND ","STROCYTE","ERIVED ","RANSFORMING ","ROWTH ","ACTOR ","ETA ","S ","EDIATOR ","F ","ENTRAL ","ERVOUS ","YSTEM ","YSFUNCTION ","N ","CQUIRED ","MMUNE ","EFICIENCY ","YNDROME"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2E","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C","FIGS. 2D-2E","FIGS. 2D-2E","FIG. 2E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3D","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3D"],"sub":"BAL"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4C","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5F","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5D","FIG. 5D","FIG. 5E","FIG. 5F"],"sub":["BaL","BaL ","BaL"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6D","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D"],"sub":"BaL "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7D","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C","FIG. 7D","FIG. 7C"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
