---
title: Method and apparatus to provide machine-assisted training
abstract: A method and an apparatus to provide machine-assisted training have been disclosed. In one embodiment, the method includes monitoring action performed by a trainee during machine-assisted training and dynamically adjusting the machine-assisted training in response to the trainee's action. Other embodiments have been claimed and described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554130&OS=08554130&RS=08554130
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08554130
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","The present invention relates to machine-assisted training, and more particularly, to providing dynamically adjustable machine-assisted training.","As computing and communication technologies advance, the use of machine-assisted training (also known as eMedia training or distant learning) has become more popular and common. In general, machine-assisted training can be provided via the Internet or other communication media, which makes such training readily accessible. Furthermore, machine-assisted training can be stored on some form of portable machine-readable medium (e.g., compact disks) to allow trainees to take the training at a time and a location convenient for the trainees.","Currently, machine-assisted training generally includes a direct translation of class-based training into a set of presentation slides or pages (e.g., Hypertext Mark-up Language (HTML) pages). During some conventional machine-assisted training, these slides or pages are presented under the control of the trainee, i.e., self-paced. This conventional technique provides static content for each of the trainees using the same machine-assisted training regardless of the individual needs of the trainees. In order to accommodate beginners in the subject area of the machine-assisted training, the presentation slides or pages may include a lot of explanations even though much of the explanations may not be necessary for some of the more advanced trainees. Likewise, to accommodate trainees who want to gain a deeper level of understanding of the subject matter, the presentation slides or pages may include a lot of details, which may not be of any interest to some other trainees.","The present invention includes a method and an apparatus to provide machine-assisted training. In one embodiment, the method includes monitoring action performed by a trainee during machine-assisted training and dynamically adjusting the machine-assisted training in response to the trainee's action.","Other features of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.","A method and an apparatus to provide machine-assisted training are described. In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known components, structures, and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.","Reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"In one embodiment, processing logic collects baseline information from a trainee (processing block ). The baseline information may include information that helps processing logic to determine the trainee's knowledge level in the pertinent subject matter and the level of detail the trainee wants to get into during the training.","One way to collect the baseline information is to provide an initial questionnaire to the trainee to be filled out before the training. A sample initial questionnaire is illustrated in . The questionnaire in  is an initial questionnaire for one embodiment of the training on the fundamentals of SystemC. The questionnaire includes questions on SystemC at different levels. Based on the trainee's answers to the questions, processing logic may determine the knowledge level of the trainee with respect to SystemC.","Referring back to , processing logic creates an initial knowledge model using the baseline information collected (processing block ). An exemplary knowledge model is shown in . Referring to , the exemplary knowledge model  defines three knowledge areas -. Each knowledge area is further divided into three levels, namely, high, medium, and low. The level in each knowledge area is assigned based on the training content. The level may be changed in fractions based on the action of the trainee. Processing logic may integrate the level in each of the knowledge areas - to determine the presentation level of the training for the trainee.","Referring back to , processing logic customizes the training based on the baseline information collected (processing block ). The training may be customized in various aspects, such as, for example, the substance of the presentation materials of the training, the annotations (e.g., notes, remarks, etc.) in the presentation materials, and the presentation speed of the training, etc. For example,  show some sample excerpts from one embodiment of the training on SystemC Language Introduction.  shows a sample excerpt for a trainee with a high knowledge level.  shows a sample excerpt for a trainee with a medium knowledge level.  shows a sample excerpt for a trainee with a low knowledge level. Comparing the excerpts corresponding to the high knowledge level and the medium knowledge level in , respectively, more detail on the divide and conquer approach supported in SystemC is included in the excerpt corresponding to the medium knowledge level. Likewise, the excerpt corresponding to the low knowledge level in  includes more detail on Object-Oriented Programming and sub-modules in hardware design.","After customizing the training, processing logic begins the training with the trainee (processing block ). During the training, processing logic monitors action of the trainee (processing block ). For example, processing logic may monitor how much detail on a certain topic the trainee requests. In some embodiments, processing logic may monitor the trainee's answers to questions presented at the end of a predetermined portion of the training, such as a chapter or a section. The questions may be designed to gauge or to evaluate the knowledge level of the trainee after the trainee has gone through the chapter or the section of the training. An exemplary questionnaire at the end of a chapter is shown in . Based on the trainee's answers to the questionnaire, processing logic may gauge or evaluate the knowledge level of the trainee after the trainee has gone through the chapter or the section.","Based on the monitored trainee action, processing logic updates the knowledge model (processing block ). For example, referring to , the knowledge level in any of the knowledge areas - may be adjusted based on any change in the trainee's knowledge level. Any change in the level of any of the knowledge areas - may cause the presentation level of the training to change as well. Then processing logic dynamically adjusts the training based on the updated knowledge model (processing block ).","Processing logic may adjust various aspects of the training to adapt or to tailor the training to the trainee's individual needs, such as the trainee's knowledge level in the relevant subject matter. For example, processing logic may adjust the detail level of the training material. If the trainee has requested more details on a certain subject matter in a previous chapter or section of the training, processing logic may provide more details on the subject matter in the next chapter or section. Another aspect that processing logic may adjust is the speed of the presentation. For example, if the trainee has demonstrated a level of knowledge in the subject matter of the training that exceeds a predetermined threshold, then processing logic may increase the speed of the presentation, and vice versa. Furthermore, if the trainee has performed poorly in the current chapter, processing logic may request the trainee to repeat the current chapter. Otherwise, processing logic may allow the trainee to move onto the next chapter.","Alternatively, processing logic may adjust the level of explanation in the training based on the trainee's action. For example, if the trainee has requested explanation of many basic terms or phrases used in a previous chapter of the training, processing logic may provide a higher level of explanation in the next chapter. In one embodiment, processing logic dynamically generates an exercise, a test, and\/or a laboratory assignment at the end of a chapter in the training based on the trainee's action. Processing logic may also keep track of the individual problems in an exercise given to the trainee so that the trainee is not asked to repeat the same set of problems that the trainee had already done. One should appreciate that the examples discussed above are for only illustration, not limitation. Processing logic may adjust other aspects of the training based on the action performed by the trainee.","After dynamically adjusting the training, processing logic repeats processing block  as the trainee continues with the training. One advantage of the process described above is to allow customization of the training based on the trainee's individual needs and\/or performance. On one hand, the trainee is not necessarily forced to go through detail that is not useful to the trainee. Therefore, the training time can be used more efficiently. On the other hand, the trainee is provided with more detail on subject matter that the trainee is interested in without the hassle of manually requesting such detail through out the training. Furthermore, by tailoring the training to the individual trainee, the training becomes more interesting to the trainee, and hence, the trainee is less likely to skip some of the presentation materials in the training, which may contain important information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220","240","230","210","240","209","240","210","211","213","215","217","211","230","213","211","215","215","217","217","217","217","220","220","217","220"]},"Note that any or all of the components and the associated hardware illustrated in  may be used in various embodiments of the system . However, it should be appreciated that other configurations of the system  may include more or less devices than those shown in . Furthermore, the client , the server , and the trainer agent  may be communicably coupled to each other via wire or wireless links. Moreover, the client , the server , and the trainer agent  may be located together at the same site or separately at different sites.","In one embodiment, the trainee  takes the training via the client , which communicates with the server  via the communication medium . Through the frontend user interface  and the API , the information processor and provider  monitors the action performed by the trainee  during the training and dynamically adjusts the training in response to the action. Since the action of the trainee  is indicative of the current knowledge level of the trainee  and the progress the trainee  has made so far in the training, the information processor and provider  may dynamically adjust the training to meet the individual needs of the trainee  based on the action. For example, the information processor and provider  may change the level of detail of the presentation material of the training, the presentation speed of the training, and\/or the level of explanation provided in the training, etc. The information processor and provider  may retrieve the appropriate documents and configuration information from the database  to put together the training. The information processor and provider  may also run one or more scripts from the database  to generate the individually tailored training. The trainer agent  may access and update the information in the database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","330","340","310","340","330","320","321","323","325","321","340","323","325","323","330","323","313","311","310"]},"Note that any or all of the components and the associated hardware illustrated in  may be used in various embodiments of the system . However, it should be appreciated that other configurations of the system  may include more or less devices than those shown in . Note that each component in the system  may be communicably coupled to another component via one or more wire or wireless links.","In one embodiment, the API  interfaces with a client (not shown) on which a trainee takes the training. Information on the trainee's action may be sent to the information processor and provider  and the trainer agent  via the API . The trainer agent  monitors the action of the trainee and uses the knowledge level filter  to determine the knowledge level of the trainee based on the trainee's action. Both the knowledge level and the action performed by the trainee are provided to the document builder . Using one or more templates from the storage device for templates  and one or more documents from the document cache , the document builder  puts together a set of training materials tailored to the individual trainee's knowledge level based on the action of the trainee. The document builder  may also access a database via the adapter  and the database management system  to retrieve the appropriate data and\/or information (e.g., configuration information, scripts, etc.) to build the presentation materials for the trainee.","Some portions of the preceding detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the tools used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.","It should be kept in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as \u201cprocessing\u201d or \u201ccomputing\u201d or \u201ccalculating\u201d or \u201cdetermining\u201d or \u201cdisplaying\u201d or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.","The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations described herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each coupled to a computer system bus.","The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the operations described. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.","A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). For example, a machine-readable medium includes read only memory (\u201cROM\u201d); random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d); magnetic disk storage media; optical storage media; flash memory devices; electrical, optical, acoustical or other form of propagated signals (e.g., carrier waves, infrared signals, digital signals, etc.); etc.","The foregoing discussion merely describes some exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion, the accompanying drawings and the claims that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"heading":["FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like references indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
