---
title: Zero waste reverse osmosis water filtering
abstract: A reverse osmosis water filtering system includes a reverse osmosis membrane having first output port for permeate water, second output port for concentrate water, and intake port for receiving filtered water, a filtering assembly providing filtered water to the membrane, and a flow restrictor restricting a flow of concentrate water from the membrane to a water source, the flow restrictor including a housing defining an elongated conduit having a tapering conical wall defining a first screw thread and a water-channel thread extending therealong including generally between a first opening into a distal region of the conduit for receiving a flow of liquid and a second opening into a proximal region of the conduit, and an axially elongated plug received into the conduit, a surface of the plug opposed to the tapering conical wall defining a second screw thread and a tapering surface, the second screw thread disposed in threaded engagement with the first screw thread defined by the conical wall of the housing, opposed surface of the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug being disposed in sealing engagement within the conduit and opposite to define a region for liquid flow, the housing with the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug thereby cooperatively defining a generally spiral liquid flow path along the water-channel screw thread and the tapering surface, for flow of liquid generally between the first opening and a port defined by the flow restrictor for delivery of liquid from the conduit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07285210&OS=07285210&RS=07285210
owner: Watts Regulator Co.
number: 07285210
owner_city: North Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041112
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority based un U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/519,364 for A REVERSE OSMOSIS WATER FILTERING SYSTEM, filed Nov. 12, 2003, the disclosure of which is incorporated here by reference in its entirety.","This application relates to provisional application No. 60\/444,864, \u201cONE-PIECE MANIFOLD FOR A REVERSE OSMOSIS SYSTEM\u201d, filed Feb. 4, 2003, and provisional application No. 60\/456,153, \u201cFLOW RESTRICTOR FOR A REVERSE OSMOSIS WATER FILTERING SYSTEM\u201d, filed Mar. 20, 2003, the complete disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.","A typical reverse osmosis water filtering system uses a semi-permeable membrane that has the ability to remove and reject a wide spectrum of impurities and contaminants from water. These contaminants are automatically rinsed down the drain. The purified water is then stored in a tank.","Typically, a predetermined pressure is applied to incoming water to force the incoming water through the membrane. The membrane filters impurities from the incoming water leaving purified water on the other side of the membrane called permeate water. The impurities left on the membrane are washed away by a portion of the incoming water that does not pass through the membrane. The water carrying the impurities washed away from the membrane is called \u201cconcentrate water.\u201d","In one aspect, the invention features a reverse osmosis water filtering system including a reverse osmosis membrane having a first output port for permeate water, a second output port for concentrate water, and an intake port for receiving filtered water, a filtering assembly providing filtered water to the membrane, and a flow restrictor restricting a flow of concentrate water from the membrane to a water source, the flow restrictor including a housing defining an elongated conduit having a tapering conical wall defining a first screw thread and a water-channel thread extending therealong including generally between a first opening into a distal region of the conduit for receiving a flow of liquid and a second opening into a proximal region of the conduit, and an axially elongated plug received into the conduit, a surface of the plug opposed to the tapering conical wall defining a second screw thread and a tapering surface, the second screw thread disposed in threaded engagement with the first screw thread defined by the conical wall of the housing, opposed surface of the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug being disposed in sealing engagement within the conduit and opposite to define a region for liquid flow, the housing with the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug thereby cooperatively defining a generally spiral liquid flow path along the water-channel screw thread and the tapering surface, for flow of liquid generally between the first opening and a port defined by the flow restrictor for delivery of liquid from the conduit.","In embodiments, the plug can be received into the conduit through the second opening. The plug can define a channel interconnecting the conduit and the port. The port can be defined by the plug.","The system can include a pump configured to pump filtered water from the filtering assembly to the membrane, the membrane having a port for supplying permeate water to a tank, and a pressure switch configured, at a predetermined pressure within a tank, to disengage the pump.","The system can include at least one check valve between the flow restrictor and the water source, the at least one check value being configured to restrict water from entering the membrane from the water source due to back pressure at the water source. The flow restrictor can have a flow rate in a range of about 200 ml\/m to about 300 ml\/m. The water source can be a hot water source. A valve can be positioned between the pump and the membrane, wherein at the predetermined pressure, the switch can close the valve. The valve can be a solenoid valve.","The predetermined pressure can correspond to the tank being full of permeate water.","The predetermined pressure can correspond to the tank being less than full of permeate water.","In another aspect, the invention features a method of reverse osmosis water filtering including restricting a flow of concentrate water from a membrane to a water source.","In embodiments, the method can include sensing pressure within a tank, the tank receiving permeate water from the membrane. A disengaging a pump from pumping filtered water to the membrane can be employed when the pressure within the tank can be at a predetermined pressure. Closing a valve between the pump and the membrane when the pressure can occur at a predetermined temperature.","In another aspect, the invention features a flow restrictor defining a restricted flow path for liquid, the flow restrictor including a housing defining an elongated conduit having a tapering conical wall defining a first screw thread and a water-channel thread extending therealong including generally between a first opening into a distal region of the conduit for receiving a flow of liquid and a second opening into a proximal region of the conduit, and an axially elongated plug received into the conduit, a surface of the plug opposed to the tapering conical wall defining a second screw thread and a tapering surface, the second screw thread disposed in threaded engagement with the first screw thread defined by the conical wall of the housing, opposed surface of the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug being disposed in sealing engagement within the conduit and opposite to define a region for liquid flow, the housing with the water-channel thread and the tapering surface of the plug thereby cooperatively defining a generally spiral liquid flow path along the water-channel screw thread and the tapering surface, for flow of liquid generally between the first opening and a port defined by the flow restrictor for delivery of liquid from the conduit.","In embodiments, the plug can be received into the conduit through the second opening. The plug can define an aperture interconnecting the conduit and the port. The port can be defined by the plug. The plug and the housing can be injection molded. The plug can include a first material, the insert can include a second material, the first material being softer than the second material. The screw-thread can include a pointed protrusion. Being disposed in sealing engagement can include the pointed protrusion penetrating the surface of the tapered surface. The plug can include a third screw thread, the second screw thread and the third screw thread can be separated by a gap.","Other features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the following description, and from the claims.","Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.","As shown in , a zero waste reverse osmosis (ZWRO) water filtering system  includes rerouting concentrate water from disposal as waste down a drain  to a hot water source  to be used again thereby conserving water. System  includes a filtering assembly , a reverse osmosis membrane , a reverse osmosis storage tank , a flow restrictor , a carbon filter  and, in one particular example, an air gap faucet . One particular example of a suitable reverse osmosis membrane  is manufactured by Applied Membranes, Inc. of Vista, Calif. under part number MT1812P24.","Filtering assembly  includes a sediment filter  and carbon filters , . Intake water enters system  from a cold water angle stop valve , connected to a cold water source , and is routed through an intake tube  to filtering assembly . Cold water angle stop valve  is connected to a faucet  through a cold water faucet line  providing cold water to the faucet .","Sediment filter  removes sediment such as sand and dirt and the like from the intake water. Carbon filters , remove chlorine and other contaminants that can cause bad color, odor and\/or taste.","Reverse osmosis membrane  includes an intake port , a permeate outlet port  and a concentrate outlet port .","When air gap faucet  is opened by a user, permeate water is forced from reverse osmosis storage tank  and through the carbon filter , though the air gap faucet , for use by the user.","To provide for zero waste reverse osmosis water filtering, a user turns off the supply of hot water from hot water source  and the supply of cold water from cold water source  by closing a hot water valve and a cold water angle stop valve . The user drains reverse osmosis storage tank  by opening air gap faucet . Pressure in reverse osmosis storage tank  forces permeate water from the reverse osmosis storage tank  and through the air gap faucet . Hot water supply line  supplies hot water to faucet  from hot water source  and includes a hot water angle stop valve , which is similar to cold water angle stop valve . In one particular example, a suitable valve for the hot water angle stop valve  is manufactured by CNC of Taipei, Taiwan under part number 32175682CNC.","Hot water supply line  is connected to hot water angle stop valve , A tube assembly  is attached and includes a flow restrictor  and two check valves , . One end of tube assembly  having flow restrictor  is attached to concentrate outlet port  of reverse osmosis membrane  and the other end of the tube assembly  is connected to hot water angle stop valve . Flow restrictor  offsets any back pressure from the hot water source . In one particular example, a flow rate of flow restrictor  is between 200 milliliters per meter (ml\/m) to 300 ml\/m. Check valves , restrict hot water from hot water source  from entering reverse osmosis membrane  due to any back pressure that can occur. In one example, a suitable check valve is manufactured by John Guest USA Inc. of Pine Brook, N.J. under part number 1\/4 SCV.","As shown in , flow restrictor  includes a main body , a threaded distal end  and a threaded proximal end .","As shown in , ,  and , the main body (e.g., housing or insert)  receives a plug . Plug  includes a tapered shaft  having a length L1 (e.g., about 1.5 inches), a screw thread section , an O-ring  defining an aperture , which leads to a hollow cavity at the proximal end . Tapered shaft  has a taper angle of approximately 1.5\u00b0. Screw thread section  includes screw threads and separated from one another by a first gap and a second gap . Without gaps and , screw threads and would form one continuous thread around the circumference of plug . Each gap and extends 90\u00b0 about the circumference of plug . Plug  is made of suitable material such as polyethylene and the like.","Housing , having a length, L, (e.g. about 3 inches), includes screw thread  and water-channel thread . Water-channel thread  includes a pointed end , with a gap  between the thread that is a part of a water-flow path. Housing  is made of a suitable material such as ABS plastic and the like.","Plug  and housing  are interengaged by screw threads and with screw thread , which together with the O-ring  provide a water tight seal. Tapered shaft  extends into housing  about three quarters of its length, L. Flow restrictor  is constructed in a fashion that water-channel thread  seals around tapered shaft  to provide a sealed gap  forming a spiral flow path for water along and around the tapered shaft . In particular, point  of water channel thread  slightly penetrates into an opposed surface of the tapered shaft  to ensure a tight seal.","A flow path of water through flow restrictor  starts at distal end  of the housing  and continues until water comes in contact with the tip region  of the tapered shaft . A volume occupied by tapered shaft  within housing  directs the water into sealed gap . The water continues to spiral around and along the tapered shaft  following the water-channel thread  until the water reaches the threads. In this particular example, the water is forced through gaps , and through the aperture  and out the proximal end  of plug . In other particular examples, the flow can be restricted in the opposite direction.","The flow path cross section is designed to restrict water flow using capillary characteristics of water, while at the same time providing a large enough flow cross section to prevent small particles from clogging the flow path.","The tapering of body  from the proximal end  to the tip region , and the use of water-channel thread , allows the flow restrictor  to be injected molded very easily and inexpensively. For example, after plug  is injected molded, it can be easily released from a mold by rotating the plug  a few turns and then drawing the plug  from the mold. Tooling also allows the flow restrictor  to be configured for \u201cstand alone\u201d use as a flow restrictor for most common reverse osmosis water filtration systems.","As described above, water-channel thread  within flow restrictor  controls the flow of the water by generating a capillary action around tapered shaft  to restrict the flow of water. Advantageously, the flow restrictor  restricts the water unlike traditional winding tube designs. The length, i.e., pitch, of the thread can be altered to change a degree of flow restriction.","In other particular examples, the length, L, of tapered shaft  can be modified to control flow rate. For example, housing  can have the same dimensions, thus saving manufacturing costs, and the length of plug  can be modified to be shorter to increase the flow rate through the flow restrictor , or longer to reduce the flow rate through the flow restrictor .","Referring again to , a valve-pump assembly  is fitted between reverse osmosis membrane  and filtering assembly . Valve-pump assembly  includes a solenoid valve , a pump , a pump intake tube , a valve-pump tube  that allows water to flow between the pump  and the solenoid valve , a valve outlet tube , a pressure switch  electrically connected to the pump  and the solenoid valve  by a wire harness , and a transformer  that supplies power to the pump , the pressure switch , and the solenoid valve . The user connects valve-pump assembly  by connecting pump intake tube  to the filtering assembly  and connecting valve outlet tube  to inlet port of reverse osmosis membrane .","The permeate tube  is connected to pressure switch . Transformer  is connected to a suitable source of power, such as to a wall outlet. In one particular example, transformer  is a 110 VAC to 24 VAC rated transformer.","In operation, when a user opens air gap faucet , the permeate water in reverse osmosis storage tank  is forced from the reverse osmosis tank  by the pressure within the tank reverse osmosis storage tank . As reverse osmosis storage tank  is being depleted of permeate water, pressure switch  detects that the pressure within the reverse osmosis storage tank  is below a predetermined pressure that corresponds to the reverse osmosis storage tank  being filled. Pressure switch  electrically opens solenoid valve  and electrically engages pump  to pump filtered water received from filtering assembly  through the open solenoid valve  through outlet valve tube  to reverse osmosis membrane .","Pump  continues pumping filtered water to reverse osmosis membrane  until pressure switch  detects that the pressure within reverse osmosis tank  has reached a predetermined level corresponding to reverse osmosis storage tank  being full (e.g., approximately 30 pounds per square inch (psi)). At the predetermined pressure, pressure switch  electrically disengages pump  from pumping filtered water from filter assembly  to reverse osmosis membrane  and closes solenoid valve .","System  is not limited to any one particular configuration described above. For example, the filtering assembly  can allow access between sediment filter  and the carbon filters , . In this configuration, pump  and solenoid valve  are positioned between the sediment filter  and carbon filters , ","In another example of system , an additional filter can be added after reverse osmosis membrane  and prior to entering hot water source  to filter the concentrate water.","In still another example, a pressure signal to disengage the pump  at a \u201cfull\u201d tank condition is triggered at a predetermined pressure set at less than tank capacity. A signal of tank capacity can alternatively be triggered (e.g., by a float or other volume indicator device).","In still another example, system  can include replacing flow restrictor  with another flow restrictor that has twice the flow rate of flow restrictor .","The flow restrictor  can be adapted to a variety of reverse osmosis systems. For example, flow restrictor  can be modified for use in a reverse osmosis system constructed as a one-piece manifold. In this example, the plug does not include the aperture or the hollow proximal end so that the water is directly routed through gaps directly into the one-piece manifold.","In other examples, the tapered shaft  has a taper angle between 0.5 degrees to 2.0 degrees.","In further examples, concentrate water is routed to any potable water source.","It is to be understood that the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not to limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
