---
title: Weapon integrated controller
abstract: The present disclosures are systems, apparatus and methods for communicating with a robot via a weapon. In one embodiment, the weapon comprises a barrel, a receiver assembly, a handgrip, and a first controller. The receiver assembly is coupled to an end of the barrel and to the handgrip. The first controller is integrated into the handgrip and inputs a first controller signal to a processing device. A transmitter receives a processing signal from the processing device according to the first controller signal. Preferably, the transmitter sends the processing signal to a robot, which responds accordingly to the received processing signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07818910&OS=07818910&RS=07818910
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07818910
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government.","1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates to weapons, more particularly, the disclosure relates to a weapon that is integrated with a controller for controlling a robot.","2. Description of the Related Art","Advances in technology have allowed robots, such as unmanned aerial vehicles and unmanned ground vehicles, to be used in military combative situations. The robots have at least one controller that controls the direction of the robots and other devices, such as video cameras, thermal detectors, etc., mounted on the robots. These robots can decrease the number of casualties that occurs during military combats. For example, the unmanned ground vehicle, such as Packbots\u2122, can be used to view inside a building. The Packbots\u2122 can be thrown inside the building through a window and they can be controlled at a place remote from the building to see what is inside the building before sending in soldiers. In another example, the unmanned aerial vehicle can be used to scan or survey a remote area away from the soldiers. The information gathered from the unmanned aircraft vehicle can help determine the soldiers next action. Currently, the robots are controlled by at least one controller that is separate from the soldiers' weapons. The controller is another item that the soldiers carry. It adds substantial weight and requires the soldiers to disengage their hands from their weapons in order for the soldiers to operate the controller.","From the above, it can be appreciated that it would be desirable to have systems apparatus and methods for communicating with a robot via a weapon that is integrated with a controller.","The present disclosures are systems, apparatus and methods for communicating with a robot via a weapon. In one embodiment, the weapon comprises a barrel, a receiver assembly, a handgrip, and a first controller. The receiver assembly is coupled to an end of the barrel and to the handgrip. The first controller is integrated into the handgrip and inputs a first controller signal to a processing device. A transmitter receives a processing signal from the processing device in accordance to the first controller signal. In a preferred embodiment, the transmitter sends the processing signal to a robot that responds to the received processing signal.","In another embodiment, a system that communicates to a robot comprises a weapon that includes a barrel, a receiver assembly, a handgrip and a first controller. The receiver assembly is coupled to an end of the barrel and to the handgrip. The first controller is integrated into the handgrip and inputs a first controller signal to a processing device. A transmitter receives a processing signal from the processing device in accordance to the first controller signal. In a preferred embodiment, the transmitter sends the processing signal to a robot, which responds accordingly to the received processing signal. The system could further comprise a headsup display, microphone, personal digital assistant, tablet display and dataglove.","The invention can also be construed as providing a method for communicating with a robot via a weapon. The method comprises establishing wireless communication with the robot, inputting a command via a controller integrated with the weapon, and transmitting a command signal based on the inputted command. The robot receives the transmitted command signal and responds based upon the command signal.","Disclosed herein are systems, apparatus, and methods to which a controller can be integrated into a weapon for communicating with a robot. In particular, the weapon includes a controller that is integrated into a handgrip of the weapon. The controller provides a control signal to a processing device that instructs a transmitter to send the control signal to the robot. The robot receives the control signal from the controller and responds accordingly. An exemplary scenario of using a weapon that is integrated with a controller is first discussed with reference to the figures. After the exemplary scenario has been described, an exemplary apparatus of a weapon that communicates to a robot is described. Although the apparatus are described in detail, the apparatus are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After an exemplary apparatus have been described, examples of operations are provided to explain the manner in which a weapon communicates with a robot.","Referring now in more detail to the figures in which like reference numerals identify corresponding parts,  illustrates an exemplary scenario of a soldier using a weapon that is integrated with a controller to communicate with a robot. As indicated in this figure, the soldier  is holding a weapon  that is integrated with a controller to communicate with a robot . The soldier  can communicate with the robot  without disengaging his hands from the weapon .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["1","2","3","4","16","7","8","1"]},"The weapon  further includes an LCD screen , which is coupled to the receiver assembly  via pin . The LCD screen  can flip up or down about the pin  in which the LCD screen can lie flat on top of the receiver assembly so that the soldier  can aim at his target. The LCD screen can adjust the angle of the LCD screen about pin  to be seen by the soldier. The LCD screen can display video images taken from a robot. In an alternative embodiment, the video image can be displayed in an aimpoint\/thermal\/visible weapon sight that is capable of displaying video images.","The handgrip is integrated with the joystick  that can control the movement of the robot, e.g., left\/right or backward\/forward. In an alternative embodiment, the joystick  can be used as a computer mouse that controls a pointer in a graphical user interface of a computing device. The buttons  can switch the controller from operating with the robot to other devices mounted on the robot or to a computing device mounted on the soldier. For example, the user can push one of the buttons  to switch controlling the robot to controlling a video imaging device mounted on the robot. The buttons  can be used to control the video imaging device to zoom in and out of the graphical image. The joystick  can control the movement of the video imaging device so that the soldier can direct the video imaging device to where he would like to see.","In another example, the soldier can push one of the buttons  to switch to operating a computing device mounted on the soldier. The joystick  can be used to move the mouse on the graphical user interface of the computing device and the buttons  can further operate to \u201cclick\u201d on an object on the graphical user interface. The computing device may have a navigation system in which the soldier  can operate the robot using the navigational system. The soldier uses the joystick  and buttons  similar to a mouse to select and to display a geographical layout of the region on the weapon display . In the case of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), the soldier can select the region, which commands the UAV to survey and display images of the area. The first controller can further select menus in the navigational system to instruct the UAV to hover at a particular height above that region.","The weapon  further includes a rail interface system  that is coupled to the barrel . The rail interface system  is coupled to a second controller , which comprises rocker button  and handle . The second controller  can control the movement and zooming of a video imaging device mounted on a robot. This enables the soldier  to control the robot  and at the same time, control the video imaging device. The handle  can be inserted through a slot  of the rail interface system . The slot  allows the handle  to slide in directions A and B along the slot  of the rail interface system . The soldier  can slide the handle  along slot  in directions A and B to instruct the imaging device to zoom in and out of the desired image. The rocker button  allows the soldier to tilt the imaging device on the robot up or down. The handle  can be twisted to control the video imaging device to rotate left or right about the robot.","It should be noted that the foregrip of the weapon could be coupled to another controller with at least some of the features of the first and second controllers. In fact, the controller on the foregrip can include a joystick and one or more buttons that are similar to the first controller of the pistol grip.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["4","4","7","9","8"]},"It should be noted that the weapon  described in  can be networked into a personal area network (PAN). The PAN can comprise a microphone speech control, a headsup display, a wireless personal digital assistant, a flexible tablet display, a dataglove control, and the weapon . The headsup display is another option to the LCD screen  for displaying video images and can be integrated into the soldier's helmet. The headsup display is part of the helmet's protective eye shield that protects the soldier's eyes and can display video images from the robots on the soldier's headsup display\/protective eye shield.","The microphone speech control is typically used for more intelligent robots capable of some autonomous navigation. The soldier can issue oral commands to the robot using a microphone for voice communication via a radio. The wireless PDA can be mounted on the soldier's wrist and can be used for displaying video images from the robots. The PDA can be programmed to include the feature of a way-point navigation for robots that are capable of such features. The dataglove control is worn on the soldier's hands and has a mechanical input and tactile feedback device for sending commands to the robots. For example, the soldier can move his hand forward or away from his body to signal the robot to move forward, backward, left or right. The dataglove control can also be used to control the video imaging device mounted on the robot. The flexible tablet display has similar feature to the PDA as explained earlier. However, the flexible tablet display has a larger display and is more suited for more intelligent robots or a team of semi-autonomous robots.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["1","21","1","16","19","16","20","27","19","20","28"]},"Once the processing device  receives input from the controllers, the processing device sends the signal to a receiver\/transmitter , which transmits the inputted signal from the controller to the robot via the antenna . The weapon  can receive information from the robot via the transmitter\/receiver . The signals from the robot are preferably video imaging signals that are captured from a video imaging device. The transmitter\/receiver  sends the video imaging signals to the processing device , which then displays the video imaging signals on the weapon display . The weapon display can further display geographical layout of a navigation system, which can instruct the robot to navigate itself to that direction. The weapon display can further display a graphical user interface that the soldier can use to communicate with the robot or imaging device. The processing device is further coupled to the aimpoint sight , thermal sight , and visible\/Isight .","It should be noted that the processing device  in  can be electrically coupled to a personal area network (PAN), as described earlier. The processing device can be integrated into the PAN, which may comprise a heads p display, wireless PDA, dataglove control, microphone speech control, and flexible tablet display. These components can allow the soldier to communicate with the robot in a way that is most comfortable and suitable to the soldier during combat.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["36","35","37","38","39","40","41"]},"It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present invention, particularly, any \u201cpreferred\u201d embodiments, are merely possible examples of implementations, merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiment(s) of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the invention can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present invention. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
