---
title: Slip meter for determination of surface slip resistance
abstract: A slip resistance measuring device features a magnetic actuator pivotally mounted on a portable frame positioned on a test surface to apply a linear force to a test specimen for engagement with the test surface at a preselected inclination angle thereto. The linear force is applied to the test specimen through a strain gauge plate which thereby undergoes stress sensed by a load cell mounted thereon from which strain stress signals are delivered under automatic testing operation to provide slip resistance measurement data for the test surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06981400&OS=06981400&RS=06981400
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06981400
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040323
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","The present invention relates to the measurement of slip resistance on surfaces at different installations including walking paths and vehicle travel roads, airfields, decks of naval ships, passageways, etc.","The measurement of surface slip resistance is necessary to determine whether a surface is safe for walking of individuals or movement of equipment thereon, so as to prevent accidents for example. Slip meters for such purposes are generally known, such as the tribometer disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,259,236 to English. Such slip meter instruments are designed for manually controlled testing of smooth or textured surfaces, involving manual movement of a slip index gauge, pressure adjustment of a hydraulic type of actuator and change of its air cylinder, and manual recording of slip index number. Furthermore, such prior art slip meters measure surface traction within a rather limited scale range, which often excludes some non-skid surfaces that are worn out. It is therefore an important object of the present invention to provide a slip meter device that is portable and avoids the manual labor intensive tasks heretofore required for operation thereof, as well as to improve operational capability so as to enlarge coverage of surface traction area including worn out non-skid surfaces and otherwise automate slip resistance measurement, as well as to make the slip meter device user friendly.","Pursuant to the present invention, a slip meter device is provided with a portable frame on which a magnetic type actuator is pivotally mounted for motorized displacement to a preselected angular position at an inclination angle to a test surface when the frame is positioned at the location to be tested. When so positioned, under a battery operated electrical energy source the magnetic actuator is energized to slidably displace a test specimen into contact with the test surface to apply a predetermined linear force to the test specimen through a strain gauge plate. Through one or more load cells mounted on the strain gauge plate under stress of the linear force being transmitted therethrough, strain measurement signals reflecting variations in slip resistance are fed to a computerizing circuit for direct automated output of slip resistance data.","Referring now to the drawings in detail,  illustrate a tribometer type of portable slip resistance measuring device  disposed on a surface  to be tested. The slip resistance measuring device  embodies a generally rectangular frame  through which various components of the device  are supported on the test surface , including an angularly positioned mast assembly  having a pair of mast arms  pivotally connected at their lower ends by hinges  to the frame , and a cross-beam  interconnecting the upper ends of the mast arms . An axially elongated magnetic actuator  is pivotally suspended by a hinge  at its upper end from the cross-beam  midway between the mast arms  as shown in . Projecting from the lower end of the magnetic actuator  is an actuator rod  connected through an attachment plate  to a strain gauge plate  having a test specimen  attached thereto adjacent its lower end as shown in ,  and . The strain gauge plate  is angularly positioned over the test surface  at a predetermined inclination angle () thereto as designated in  by angular displacement of the mast arms  about the hinges  on the frame . Such angular positioning of the mast arms  and the magnetic actuator  with the strain gauge plate  is effected by means of an electric position adjustment motor  pivotally mounted on the frame  by a housing , as shown in . The housing  encloses control circuitry associated with the motor  as hereinafter described for pivotal displacement of the mast arms  through an actuator rod  extending from the motor  and pivotally connected to the mast arms  and to the magnetic actuator  by a hinge bracket .","According to another embodiment of the present invention as sown in , the strain plate  hereinbefore described is replaced by a strain plate , which is provided with two load cells and mounted thereon, spaced apart by a distance (l) for measurement of strain therebetween. The load cells and are connected to three terminals ,  and  as shown in  and electrically diagrammed in .  graphically diagrams variations in slip resistance as a function of the changing strain (e) produced in the strain plate  and the spacings between the test specimen  and the load cells and connected through the signal terminals ,  and  to the automated circuitry  as diagrammed in  through which measurement of the slip resistance of the surface  is effected.","As a result of the foregoing description of the portable slip resistance measuring device , the static and kinetic slip resisting friction of the surface , such as that of a non-skid deck, may be readily determined automatically by one person without manual data recordation.","Obviously, other modifications and variations of the present invention may be possible in light of the foregoing teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of its attendant advantages will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawing wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1\u20135"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 7 and 8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
