---
title: Live presentation searching
abstract: In a networked client/server system, live presentations can be streamed from an encoder or other server to a client computer. Additionally, information describing the presentation is registered with a search server. This information is made available for user searches only for as long as the information properly describes the live presentation. When the information no longer describes a current live presentation, the information is no longer available for searching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07565440&OS=07565440&RS=07565440
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07565440
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041130
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/465,547, filed on Dec. 16, 1999, entitled \u201cLive Presentation Searching\u201d and naming Nosakhare D. Omoigui as inventor, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to a divisional of the above-noted application, filed Jul. 7, 2004, U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/886,809, and a continuation of the above-noted application, filed on an even date herewith, U.S. patent application Ser. No. (unknown at time of filing).","This invention relates to networked client\/server systems and to methods of delivering and rendering live content in such systems. More particularly, the invention relates to searching for live presentations.","The advent of computers and their continued technological advancement has revolutionized the manner in which people work and live. Information that used to be available only in written or verbal form is becoming increasingly available in electronic form. Furthermore, presentations which used to be available only on particular recording media (e.g., film or tape) or via television broadcasts are now available in digital form (e.g., over the Internet).","One problem encountered by users when faced with this continually increasing mass of digital information is the ability to locate particular information that the user is interested in. For example, trying to locate a particular presentation can be difficult and cumbersome for users. Various search mechanisms exist for pre-recorded \u201con-demand\u201d presentations (e.g., various world wide web search engines). On-demand presentations are fairly easily searchable because the underlying data of the presentation is already known. However, in the case of live presentations, such underlying data is not known because, as the presentation is live, the underlying data is not available yet.","Some systems do exist that allow a user to identify scheduled live presentations. For example, a television programming guide may be available over the Internet that allows a user to search for television programs that are scheduled to be broadcast (e.g., via cable, satellite system, or typical television broadcast frequencies, such as UHF or VHF) and their associated broadcast times. However, such programming guides typically do not provide the flexibility to allow non-scheduled programs to be identified to the user. Furthermore, such programming guides are typically limited to television broadcasts and do not allow users to identify presentations from any of the wide variety of alternate sources (such as via the Internet).","The invention described below addresses these disadvantages, providing a way to search for live presentations.","In a networked client\/server system, live presentations can be streamed from an encoder or other server to a client computer. Additionally, information describing the presentation is registered with a search server. This information is made available for user searches only for as long as the information properly describes the live presentation. When the information no longer describes a current live presentation, the information is no longer available for searching.","According to one aspect of the invention, the information describes the entire presentation. The information is available in the search server for user searches for the duration of the presentation. Once the presentation is over, the information is deleted from the search server, preventing any subsequent user search requests from being satisfied using the information describing that presentation.","According to another aspect of the invention, the information describes a particular characteristic(s) of the presentation (e.g., the current topic). The information for a characteristic is available in the search server for user searches for as long as that characteristic describes the portion of the presentation currently being presented. Once that characteristic no longer describes the portion currently being presented, the information describing that characteristic is deleted from the search server, preventing any subsequent user search requests from being satisfied using the information describing that characteristic.","According to another aspect of the invention, a user can register a notification request with the search server. The notification request identifies a set of search criteria as well as a manner in which the user should be notified in the event a live presentation matches the search criteria. The search server continues to compare new information regarding available live presentations to the search criteria. If a match is found, the search server notifies the user in whatever manner the user requested.","General Network Structure",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","104","106","102","104","106","108","102","104","106"]},"Encoders  receive live content or presentations in the form of different media streams . Encoders  can be dedicated media servers, or alternatively other more general-purpose computer systems. These media streams  can be individual media streams (e.g., audio, video, graphical, etc.), or alternatively can be composite media streams including two or more of such individual streams. The media streams  are provided to encoders on a \u201clive\u201d basis from other data source components through dedicated communications channels or through the Internet itself. Encoders  coordinate the streaming of the live content to other components on the network  that request the content, such as client computers . It is to be appreciated that although the media streams are referred to as being \u201clive\u201d, there may be a delay (e.g., between one second and thirty seconds) between the time of the actual event and the time the media streams reach the encoder(s).","There are various standards for streaming media content and composite media streams. \u201cAdvanced Streaming Format\u201d (ASF) is an example of such a standard, including both accepted versions of the standard and proposed standards for future adoption. ASF specifies the way in which multimedia content is stored, streamed, and presented by the tools, servers, and clients of various multimedia vendors. ASF provides benefits such as local and network playback, extensible media types, component download, scalable media types, prioritization of streams, multiple language support, environment independence, rich inter-stream relationships, and expandability. Further details about ASF are available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash.","Encoders  can transmit any type of presentation over the network . Examples of such presentations include audio\/video presentations (e.g., television broadcasts or presentations from a \u201cNetShow\u2122\u201d server (available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond, Wash.)), video-only presentations, audio-only presentations, graphical or animated presentations, etc.","Search server  maintains a content database , a notification database , and a scheduled presentations database . In content database , server  maintains descriptive information regarding the current live content available from encoders . A user of a client computer  can access search server  to search for particular live content. In notification database , server  maintains information regarding users of client computers  that have registered to be notified when particular live content is available. In scheduled presentations database , server  maintains information regarding future live presentations that have been registered with server .","Exemplary Computer Environment","In the discussion below, the invention will be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by one or more conventional personal computers. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. In a distributed computer environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","Alternatively, the invention could be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware. For example, the invention could be implemented in one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["142","142","102","104","106"]},"Computer  includes one or more processors or processing units , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory  to processors .","The bus  represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) , containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is stored in ROM . Computer  further includes a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive  for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are connected to the system bus  by an SCSI interface  or some other appropriate interface. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk, a removable magnetic disk  and a removable optical disk , it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, random access memories (RAMs) read only memories (ROM), and the like, may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.","A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM , or RAM , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data . A user may enter commands and information into computer  through input devices such as keyboard  and pointing device . Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processing unit  through an interface  that is coupled to the system bus. A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor, personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown) such as speakers and printers.","Computer  operates in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be another personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and the Internet. In the described embodiment of the invention, remote computer  executes an Internet Web browser program such as the \u201cInternet Explorer\u201d Web browser manufactured and distributed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash.","When used in a LAN networking environment, computer  is connected to the local network  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to the system bus  via a serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Generally, the data processors of computer  are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer-readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed, for example, on floppy disks or CD-ROMs. From there, they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution, they are loaded at least partially into the computer's primary electronic memory. The invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer-readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. The invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described below. Furthermore, certain sub-components of the computer may be programmed to perform the functions and steps described below. The invention includes such sub-components when they are programmed as described. In addition, the invention described herein includes data structures, described below, as embodied on various types of memory media.","For purposes of illustration, programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks, although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer, and are executed by the data processor(s) of the computer.","Search Server",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["106","210","212","214","216","102","106","210","210","102","210","214","112"]},"Encoders  () communicate with search server  via registration interface . Registration interface  allows encoders  to provide descriptive information regarding the live content that they can stream to client computers. This descriptive information can then be added to content database  and used for searches by search engine . Descriptive information can be maintained by server  for any live content that can be provided by encoders .","Database controller  manages the databases , , and . This management includes both adding entries to and removing entries from databases , , and .","Live content or presentations available from encoders  can be either pre-scheduled or non-scheduled. Pre-scheduled presentations refer to presentations that have been registered with search server  as occurring in the future (e.g., not already in progress and not starting within the next five minutes). Descriptive information regarding pre-scheduled presentations (e.g., presentation title, key words describing the content of the presentation, and encoder(s) from which the presentation will be available) can be provided to server  from one of the encoders  or some other source, either via the network  () or alternatively some other delivery mechanism (e.g., a magnetic or optical disk).","Non-scheduled presentations refer to presentations that have not been registered with search server  as occurring in the future. A non-scheduled presentation is registered with server  as the presentation is about to begin (e.g., within the next five minutes) or shortly after it has begun. The presentation can be registered by an encoder  (e.g., the encoder  that will be streaming the live content), or alternatively some other source. As part of the registration process, server  is provided with descriptive information regarding the presentation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["112","230","232","234","236","238","112"]},"Title field  includes a descriptive title of the presentation. Source field  identifies the encoder(s)  from which the presentation can be obtained. Duration field  identifies, for some entries, the duration of the presentation; in other entries, the duration data is not included. Characteristics field  optionally identifies the current characteristics for the presentation (i.e., one or more characteristics describing the portion of the presentation currently being presented or about to be presented). Any of a wide variety of characteristics can be included for the presentation, such as the current topic (as illustrated in ), the name of the current speaker, the gender of the current speaker, the color of the current speaker's clothing, etc. Descriptive information field  provides various descriptive information that describes the content of the presentation.","Content database  maintains information identifying each of the currently available live presentations that is registered with server . Information regarding pre-scheduled presentations that are not currently available (or shortly will be available) from an encoder  is maintained in scheduled database . Alternatively, such information could be included in content database  and simply marked as \u201cinvalid\u201d until the presentation is available from an encoder .","In the illustrated example, each current live presentation has an associated entry in database . When a pre-scheduled presentation is about to begin (e.g., it is scheduled to begin shortly, such as within two minutes), database controller  () loads descriptive information corresponding to the presentation into an entry of database . In the case of pre-scheduled presentations, this descriptive information is loaded from pre-scheduled presentations database . In the case of non-scheduled presentations, this descriptive information is received directly from registration interface .","When a presentation is over, the entry in database  corresponding to the presentation is deleted. Server  is provided with an indication of the duration of a live presentation from the encoder or other device that registered the presentation with server . In one implementation, this indication of the duration is a time period or \u201crun time\u201d for the presentation. For example, an encoder may indicate that a particular live presentation is going to be available between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Jan. 1, 2000, or that a particular live presentation is going to last for 45 minutes. Database controller  monitors content database  for presentations whose time period or \u201crun time\u201d has passed, and deletes the corresponding entries from database . According to another implementation, this indication of the duration of the presentation is simply a \u201cpresentation over\u201d message or similar indicator. For example, an encoder may register for a current live presentation, and then send a \u201cpresentation over\u201d message to the server  when the presentation has completed. Upon receipt of the \u201cpresentation over\u201d message, database controller  deletes the entry corresponding to the presentation from database .","In one implementation of the invention, database controller  also includes a timeout control that monitors the length of time that entries have been in database . If a \u201cpresentation over\u201d message is not received for a live presentation within a default period of time, then controller  assumes that a \u201cpresentation over\u201d message was mistakenly not sent (or was lost in transit) and removes the entry corresponding to the live presentation from database .","Additionally, in another implementation of the invention a presentation that is scheduled for a particular duration (e.g., 90 minutes, or from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.) may be extended. The duration can be extended by the encoder  (or other device) sending a message to server  to change the duration in the corresponding entry of database . For example, the message may indicate to change \u201c90 minutes\u201d to \u201c110 minutes\u201d, or to change \u201c2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.\u201d to \u201c2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.\u201d. Alternatively, the duration may be extended by the encoder  (or other device) sending a message to server  indicating that server  is to ignore the previously identified duration and that a \u201cpresentation over\u201d message or similar indicator will be transmitted to server  when the presentation is over.","The descriptive information field  of an entry includes data that describes the content of the corresponding presentation. In the illustrated example of , the data includes a set of one or more key words describing the presentation. Alternatively, the data could include a summary or abstract of the presentation, or a textual transcript of the presentation.","The data for descriptive information field  can be generated manually or automatically. Manual generation refers to an individual (e.g., the presentation author) creating the data. For example, the author may write a summary or a list of key words for the presentation and provide them to server  (either directly or via an encoder ).","Automatic generation refers to one of the components, such as an encoder  or server , using any of a variety of mechanisms to generate data describing the presentation as the presentation occurs. For example, conventional key word generation processes may be employed to identify key words from the presentation. This may be carried out by an encoder , server , or some other component coupled to network . By way of another example, closed captioning information may be used as the data, or conventional speech-to-text conversion techniques may be used to convert audio data into text data.","The information maintained in content database  is used by search engine  to respond to search requests received from users of a client computer  (). A user provides, as part of his or her search request, a set of search criteria and which fields the search criteria should be applied to. The user can provide search requests via any of a wide variety of conventional input mechanisms, such as a graphical user interface (GUI). In the illustrated example, the user is able to search any of the fields in content database . Search engine  compares the user-provided search criteria to each entry in the database  to determine whether the presentation corresponding to the entry satisfies the search request. Any of a variety of conventional searching algorithms and methodologies can be used. For example, any entry with at least one word matching one of the search criteria may satisfy the search request, an entry may be required to include every word in the search criteria in order to satisfy the search request, etc.","Information regarding presentations that satisfy a search request are provided to the client computer  of the user that placed the request. Such information may be the entire entry from database , or alternatively a selected portion (e.g., the title field  and source field  for the entry). The source field  is provided to the client computer to allow the user to subsequently request the presentation, via the client computer, from the appropriate encoder . In the illustrated example, the data in source field  comprises a uniform resource locator (URL) that identifies a particular presentation available from a particular encoder.","Information from each entry that satisfies the search criteria is provided to the user and, if multiple entries satisfy the each criteria, then the user can select one or more presentations based on this information. Alternatively, server  may rank the entries based on how well they match the search criteria and return information for only the highest ranking entry (or entries) to the user.","In addition to information describing the overall content of the presentation, current \u201ccharacteristic\u201d information is also (optionally) included in database . Characteristic information describing one or more current characteristics of the presentation is registered with search server  by the encoder . When one or more of the current characteristics changes, the encoder  registers the new current characteristic(s) with server . Server , in response, changes the entry in content database  corresponding to the presentation to identify the new current characteristics (e.g., by replacing one or more of the current characteristics or by adding a new characteristic(s)). By continually updating the current characteristics, a user can search for particular characteristics without regard for which actual presentation includes the characteristics. For example, a user may be interested in discussions of Microsoft Corporation and can search for the characteristics \u201cMicrosoft\u201d or \u201cBill Gates\u201d across multiple presentations registered with server .","A current characteristic has a duration analogous to that of the presentation discussed above. Each characteristic may have its own duration, or multiple characters for a presentation may have the same duration. The duration of the characteristics can be identified explicitly (e.g., the author may indicate that Microsoft Corporation will be discussed from 2:07 p.m. to 2:12 p.m., or that the current characteristic of Microsoft Corporation will be accurate for the next seven minutes, or a \u201ccharacteristic over\u201d indicator (such as a \u201ccancel characteristic\u201d message) may be transmitted to server  from encoder ). Alternatively, the duration of the characteristics can be identified implicitly (e.g., the previous current characteristics are over when new current characteristics information is received).","Current characteristics data can also be generated either manually or automatically, analogous to the generation of data for descriptive information field  discussed above. For example, an algorithm may use closed captioning data or a speech-to-text conversion algorithm to obtain a textual version of the presentation. Key words can then be identified from the textual version and if their frequency is high enough (e.g., the word \u201cMicrosoft\u201d occurs at least a threshold number of times, such as ten, within a period of time, such as sixty seconds or every 500 words), then those key words are identified as the current topic data.","Current characteristics information can be deleted from database  in an immediate manner. That is, as soon as new current characteristics data is received, the previous current characteristics data is deleted. Alternatively, the current characteristic information may be \u201caged out\u201d of database  gradually. For example, if new current characteristics are identified and the key words that caused the identification of the previous current characteristics are not detected within a threshold amount of time (e.g., ten minutes), then the previous current characteristics are deleted from database . This aging out can be implemented by server , or alternatively can be used by encoder  in determining when to transmit a \u201ccharacteristic over\u201d indicator to server .","Thus, using characteristics, it can be seen that the results of a search request can vary depending on when during the presentation the search request is made.","Alternatively, the current characteristics for a presentation can be displayed to the user rather than used for searching. For example, a user may submit a search request that results in multiple live presentations with descriptive information  satisfying the search criteria. Search server  transmits the current characteristics for each of these matching live presentations (as well as other information, such as title ) to client  for display to the user. Search server  also transmits any changes in the current characteristics for these matching live presentations to client . Thus, client  presents to the user a continually updating display of the current characteristics of the live presentations that satisfy his or her search request.","Database controller  also maintains notification database . A user can register a \u201cnotification request\u201d with server  that includes a search request and a notification type. The search request includes the user's search criteria and the notification type identifies how the user wants to be notified in the event a live presentation begins that matches the search criteria. In one implementation, a user can register an email address, a pager number, a cellular phone (or other telephone) number, etc.","Database controller  receives the notification request and places the search criteria and notification type in notification database . Database controller  also invokes search engine  to determine whether any current entry in content database  satisfies the search criteria. If a match is found, then the user is notified in a manner according to the notification type. The notification request may then be removed from notification database , or alternatively left in notification database  to detect subsequent matches.","If a match is not immediately found, then database controller  continues to invoke search engine  each time new information is placed in content database . Once invoked, search engine  determines whether the new information results in an entry that matches any of the search criteria of notification requests in notification database . This search may be compared to all entries in content database , or alternatively only to the entries in database  that include the new information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["250","104","250","106"]},"Initially, encoder  sends identifying information for a current live presentation to search server  (step ). This identifying information is received by server  (step ), which records the information and makes the information available for user searches (step ). The identifying information is used by server  in responding to any subsequent search requests it receives (step ).","While server  is performing steps -, encoder  continues to stream the live presentation to any of the client computers  that request it until the presentation is over (steps  and ). When the presentation is over, encoder  stops streaming the presentation to client computers  and sends a \u201cpresentation over\u201d indication to server  (step ).","Server  receives the \u201cpresentation over\u201d indication from encoder  (step ) and deletes its record of the identifying information regarding the presentation (step ). Thus, any subsequent search requests will not be compared to the identifying information for that presentation, as that presentation is over.","Alternatively, rather than relying on a \u201cpresentation over\u201d indication in step , server  may be informed of the end of the presentation in other manners (such as a pre-programmed duration).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["280","104","280","106"]},"Initially encoder  sends, to search server , current characteristic(s) information for the portion of a live presentation currently being presented (step ). Search server  in turn receives the current characteristic(s) information (step ). Server  records the current characteristic(s) information and makes the information available for searching (step ). The characteristic(s) information is used by server  in responding to any subsequent search requests it receives (step ).","While server  is performing steps -, encoder  continues to stream the live presentation to any of the client computers  that request it (step ). Encoder  also checks whether the current characteristic(s) are over (step ). When the current characteristic(s) are over (e.g., they no longer describe the portion of the live presentation currently being presented), encoder  sends a \u201ccharacteristic(s) over\u201d indication to server  (step ).","Server  receives the characteristic(s) over indication from encoder  (step ) and deletes its record of the characteristic(s) information (step ). Thus, any subsequent search requests will not be compared to the characteristic(s) information for that presentation, as those characteristic(s) are over.","The invention allows for the searching of live presentations. An encoder providing a live presentation registers with a search server, advantageously making information identifying the presentation available for searching only for the duration of the presentation. Additionally, characteristic information identifying current characteristic(s) of the presentation can be registered with the search server only for the duration of that characteristic(s). Thus, the characteristic information is advantageously made available for only as long as that characteristic(s) describes the current portion of the live presentation.","Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological steps, it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or steps described. Rather, the specific features and steps are disclosed as preferred forms of implementing the claimed invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
