---
title: Generating visualization output of event correlation information
abstract: A method for graphically representing events at runtime in an event management system is provided. A plurality of events including a first event and a second event are received that define respective states of one or more networked devices. A cause-effect event relation is identified between the first event, the second event, and a projected event responsive to receiving the first and second events. A runtime visualization output is generated that includes a graphical representation of the first event, the second event, the projected event and the event relation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626894&OS=08626894&RS=08626894
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08626894
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040624
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["1. Technical Field","The present invention relates generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and data processing system for managing networked systems. Still more particularly, the present invention provides a method and apparatus for analyzing events and for visualizing cause and effect correlation information among multiple events at runtime in a networked system.","2. Description of Related Art","As distributed or networked systems become increasingly complex, effective management and evaluation of a networked system progressively increases in difficulty. In typical networked systems, a system manager monitors critical activities of network systems and applications.","A common approach to networked systems management is implementation of an event management system (EMS). An EMS is a system that receives system state information and that takes a corrective action in response to an indication of an undesirable system state. Event messages (referred to herein as \u201cevents\u201d) indicative of a system state are sent to the EMS, and the EMS parses the event and takes a particular corrective action. The corrective action may be, for example, a maintenance command that is executed on one or more particular networked devices, or a message to a network manager that indicates the event such that the network manager may take a corrective action.","In general, an EMS contains a correlation engine that identifies relations among events. Subject matter experts, such as a network engineer or administrator, write correlation rules that the EMS evaluates for identification of the relations. A correlation rule may specify a corrective action based on the event.","In addition to a correlation engine, a conventional EMS includes an event console that provides a display of events in real-time. Display of events is provided as a list of independent elements. Each element is associated with a single event and contains various event properties. An event displayed by an event console contains no indication of any relationship with another event. Rather, relations among events is specified only by correlation rules written by the subject matter expert. Thus, an event console provides no visual indication to a user, e.g., a network manager, of the correlation among events, such as a cause and effect relationship, that may exist between events displayed by the event console. Due to the complexity of networked systems and event relations, it is difficult to ascertain events that may occur as a result of received events.","Thus, it would be advantageous to provide a method for generating visualization output of event correlation information among events in a networked system. It would be further advantageous to provide a mechanism for providing a runtime visualization output of cause and effect relationships of multiple events received in a networked system and event relations derived from the received events.","The present invention provides a method for graphically representing events at runtime in an event management system. A plurality of events including a first event and a second event are received that define respective states of one or more networked devices. A cause-effect event relation is identified between the first event, the second event, and a projected event responsive to receiving the first and second events. A runtime visualization output is generated that includes a graphical representation of the first event, the second event, the projected event and the event relation.","With reference now to the figures,  depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system  is a network of computers in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system  contains a network , which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network  may include connections, such as wire, wireless communication links, or fiber optic cables.","In the depicted example, server  is connected to network  along with storage unit . In addition, clients , , and  are connected to network . These clients , , and  may be, for example, personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example, server  provides data, such as boot files, operating system images, and applications to clients -. Clients , , and  are clients to server . Network data processing system  may include additional servers, clients, and other devices not shown. In the depicted example, network data processing system  is the Internet with network  representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high-speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers, consisting of thousands of commercial, government, educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course, network data processing system  also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks, such as for example, an intranet, a local area network (LAN), or a wide area network (WAN).  is intended as an example, and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention. Clients , , and  or other network devices transmit events to server  by way of network . Server  runs an EMS and provides a graphical display of relations among received events and anticipated events as described more fully below.","Referring to , a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server, such as server  in , is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system  may be a symmetric multiprocessor (SMP) system including a plurality of processors  and  connected to system bus . Alternatively, a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus  is memory controller\/cache , which provides an interface to local memory . I\/O bus bridge  is connected to system bus  and provides an interface to I\/O bus . Memory controller\/cache  and I\/O bus bridge  may be integrated as depicted.","Peripheral component interconnect (PCI) bus bridge  connected to I\/O bus  provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to PCI local bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add-in connectors. Communications links to clients - in  may be provided through modem  and network adapter  connected to PCI local bus  through add-in connectors.","Additional PCI bus bridges  and  provide interfaces for additional PCI local buses  and , from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner, data processing system  allows connections to multiple network computers. A memory-mapped graphics adapter  and hard disk  may also be connected to I\/O bus  as depicted, either directly or indirectly.","Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in  may vary. For example, other peripheral devices, such as optical disk drives and the like, also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.","The data processing system depicted in  may be, for example, an IBM eServer pSeries system, a product of International Business Machines Corporation in Armonk, N.Y., running the Advanced Interactive Executive (AIX) operating system or LINUX operating system.","With reference now to , a block diagram illustrating a data processing system is depicted in which the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system  is an example of a client computer. Data processing system  employs a peripheral component interconnect (PCI) local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus, other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) and Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) may be used. Processor  and main memory  are connected to PCI local bus  through PCI bridge . PCI bridge  also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor . Additional connections to PCI local bus  may be made through direct component interconnection or through add-in boards. In the depicted example, local area network (LAN) adapter , SCSI host bus adapter , and expansion bus interface  are connected to PCI local bus  by direct component connection. In contrast, audio adapter , graphics adapter , and audio\/video adapter  are connected to PCI local bus  by add-in boards inserted into expansion slots. Expansion bus interface  provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter , modem , and additional memory . Small computer system interface (SCSI) host bus adapter  provides a connection for hard disk drive , tape drive , and CD-ROM drive . Typical PCI local bus implementations will support three or four PCI expansion slots or add-in connectors.","An operating system runs on processor  and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within data processing system  in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system, such as Windows XP, which is available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provide calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . \u201cJava\u201d is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Instructions for the operating system, the object-oriented programming system, and applications or programs are located on storage devices, such as hard disk drive , and may be loaded into main memory  for execution by processor .","Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in  may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices, such as flash read-only memory (ROM), equivalent nonvolatile memory, or optical disk drives and the like, may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also, the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.","As another example, data processing system  may be a stand-alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interfaces As a further example, data processing system  may be a personal digital assistant (PDA) device, which is configured with ROM and\/or flash ROM in order to provide non-volatile memory for storing operating system files and\/or user-generated data.","The depicted example in  and above-described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example, data processing system  also may be a notebook computer or hand held computer in addition to taking the form of a PDA. Data processing system  also may be a kiosk or a Web appliance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["400","420","430","440","450","460","400","232","200","202","204"]},"Events are conveyed to EMS  from the devices of the network  shown in . In the illustrative example, a first event (EV)  is received by EMS , and a subsequent event (EV)  is later received by EMS . The events may be placed into event database . Event database  is a repository that may be accessed by, for example, a structured query language (SQL) front end or interface. Event database  stores events and associated properties. An event may, for example, be stored as a record of a table, and properties of events may be stored as fields of corresponding event records. Other data structures may be suitably substituted for event database .","Events are input into event database  in a syntax compatible with correlation engine . Event database  may be utilized by an correlation miner or other application that analyzes events and facilities formulation of new correlation rules or causal relations.","Additionally, received events are input to correlation engine  that accesses rules of correlation rules database  to determine actions to take. Correlation engine  interprets rules that express or define a situation of interest such as an event pattern or sequence and an action to take in response to the event pattern. In general, correlation engine  receives one or more events, or data derived therefrom, and interrogates correlation rules database  with the event data at runtime. An action to take in response to the interrogation is then retrieved from the correlation rules database .","Correlation engine  also interfaces with event relation database . In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, event relation database  stores rules that define correlations among events. For example, rules of event relation database  may define cause and effect relations among events. Other rules may define relations such as clearing relations among events. While event relation database  is illustratively shown as a discrete data structure independently accessed by correlation engine , causal relation database  may alternatively be integrated with event database  or correlation database . It should be understood that the illustrated software architecture of  is exemplary only and is not intended to imply an architectural limitation of the present invention.","Event console  receives analysis data from correlation engine  for generation of event visualization output on a display device at runtime. Event data provided to event console  by correlation engine  may include data representative of an event received by correlation engine , event property data of the received event retrieved from event database , action data that indicates a suggested action to take in response to the received event or an anticipated event, and event correlation information obtained from interrogation of event relation database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["460","500","501","502","500","232","202","200","501","501","502","502"],"i":["a","b","a","d. "]},"Table  has a label, or identifier, assigned thereto. In the present example, table  has a label of \u201cRelationDB\u201d. Fields -each have a respective label, or identifier, that facilitates insertion, deletion, querying, or other data operations or manipulations of table . In the illustrative example, fields -have respective labels of \u201cAnte1\u201d, \u201cAnte2\u201d, \u201cPR1\u201d, and \u201cPR2\u201d. A particular field, or fields, e.g., fields and , may be designated as a key and each respective data element, or the combination of data elements of the key fields, is unique within the key fields. Addressing a particular record, such as records -, via an associated key data element is referred to as indexing of the record. Alternatively, a key may be obtained by a function, e.g., a hashing function, that indexes a particular record, such as records -","Records -define respective event relations that may be identified by correlation engine  responsive to receipt of events. Particularly, the exemplary event relations defined by records -are causal relations that define cause and effect relationships among events. In the illustrative example, an event relation is defined by one or more antecedent events and one or more associated projected events. As referred to herein, an antecedent event is an event that may cause or induce the occurrence of one or more other events. An antecedent event may be sufficient for causing another event occurrence, or an antecedent event may require one or more other antecedent-events to cause the occurrence of another event. An event that may be anticipated to occur as the result of the occurrence of one or more antecedent events is referred to herein as a projected event. Additionally, an event may be an antecedent event and a projected event. For example, the occurrence of an event may be induced by another event, and the induced event may itself result in the occurrence of another event. Table  is accessed upon receipt of an event for a runtime identification of event relations. In the illustrative example, fields and define antecedent events that are associated with projected events defined in fields and . For example, record defines a causal relation having two antecedent events (EV and EV) associated with a projected event (EV). In a similar manner, record defines a causal relation having a single antecedent event (EV) with two associated projected events (EV and EV). It should be understood that the causal relations shown and described are exemplary only, and the present invention is not limited to any particular types of event relations.","Upon receipt of an event, correlation engine  interrogates table  with the received event. The received event, or a derivation thereof such as a unique event identifier, is used by correlation engine  to formulate a query that is submitted to table . Assume correlation engine  has received event EV. Correlation engine  may generate, for example, an SQL query such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SELECT PR1, PR2"]},{"entry":[{},"FROM RelationDB"]},{"entry":[{},"WHERE (ANTE1=\u201cEV3\u201d)"]},{"entry":[{},"AND (ANTE2=\u201cNull\u201d)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"3"},"Correlation engine  may then supply the received event EV, or data derived therefrom, to event console  for runtime generation of visualization output. Additionally, property data associated with the event may be conveyed to event console  as well. In a preferred embodiment, a runtime visualization output representative of events is generated as nodes of a directed graph. For example,  is a diagrammatic illustration of an exemplary runtime visualization output comprising graphical user interface (GUI)  generated by event console  of  upon receipt of an event in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Runtime visualization output includes an event representation  provided as a graph node representative of the received event EV that is displayed in window . In the present example, no projected event is associated with single causal event EV. Accordingly, event representation  is graphically output as a single graph node.","Returning again to , a second event EV is received by correlation engine  subsequent to receipt of event EV. Correlation engine  again formulates an SQL query that is submitted to causal relation database . For example, the following SQL query may be generated for submission to event relation database  that evaluates whether events  and  may induce the occurrence of one or more projected events:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SELECT PR1, PR2"]},{"entry":[{},"FROM RelationDB"]},{"entry":[{},"WHERE (ANTE1=\u201cEV3\u201d OR \u201cEV4\u201d)"]},{"entry":[{},"AND (ANTE2=\u201cEV3\u201d OR \u201cEV4\u201d)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["460","3","4","700","1","700","1","402","404","430","460","4","3"]},"Correlation engine  may then convey the received event EV and projected event EV to event console . Properties of events EV and EV may be conveyed to event console  as well. Event console  updates the runtime visualization output to include the most recently received event and the projected event associated with the received events. Additionally, the event relation among the events is included in the runtime visualization output. For example,  is a diagrammatic illustration of an exemplary runtime visualization output generated by event console  of  upon receipt of events EV and EV and identification of projected event EV in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Runtime visualization output includes event representations  and  provided as graph nodes representative of received event EV and EV, respectively. Projected event EV is represented by event representation . Thus, a runtime visualization output is generated that includes respective representations of a plurality of events, e.g., EV and EV, that have occurred and an event that is projected to occur due to the cause-effect relation between the events.","In the illustrative example, the causal relation between antecedent events EV and EV and projected event EV is represented by directed edges  and  respectively connecting event representations  and  with event representation . Particularly, an antecedent event is graphically represented as a source node of a directed edge connecting the antecedent event with the associated projected event, and a projected event is graphically represented as a target node of the directed edge. Moreover, event representation  of event EV may be graphically designated as a projected event. For example, event representation  is illustratively designated as a projected event by dashed lines enclosing event representation . However, any manner of graphic designation may be used to distinctly designate the runtime visualization output of an event representation of received events and projected events. For example, the graph nodes comprising event representations may be assigned a particular color indicative of a received event or a projected event.","In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a projected event may be used to interrogate event relation database . For example, upon identification of EV as a projected event, correlation engine  may use the projected event EV to interrogate event relation database  for additional projected events. In the illustrative example, projected events EV and EV are returned to correlation engine  as a return data set upon interrogation of event relation database  with the projected event EV. Accordingly, correlation engine may provide events EV and EV to event console  for update of the runtime visualization output.","For example,  is a diagrammatic illustration of runtime visualization output after receipt of events EV and EV and one or more subsequent interrogations of event relation database  in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown, projected events EV and EV are represented by event representations  and . Events EV and EV are graphically designated as projected events by dashed lines encompassing the event representations  and . The causal relation between projected event EV and projected events EV and EV is designated by directed edges  and  connecting event representation  with event representations  and . Thus, projected event EV is graphically designated as an antecedent event of projected events EV and EV by way of the graphic representation of the causal relation among events EV, EV and EV.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 4","FIG. 6C"],"b":["650","450","3","4","650","660","661","665","661","665","460","420","650","660","600","650","660"],"i":"c "},"As described, a method and computer program product for generating runtime visualization output depicting event relations among events in a networked system is provided. Events are received by an event management system and event representations of the received events are generated in a runtime visualization output. An event relation database defining relations among events is interrogated with the received event. Event relations identified from the interrogation of the event relation database is graphically represented in the runtime visualization output. The visualization output includes a runtime graphic representation of the events and event relations. The runtime visualization output may include representations of a plurality of received events and one or more projected events identified by a cause-effect relation between the plurality of received events and the projected event. Advantageously, a user may easily identify networked system events and event relations.","It is important to note that while the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functioning data processing system, those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the processes of the present invention are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable medium of instructions and a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used to carry out the distribution. Examples of computer readable media include recordable-type media, such as a floppy disk, a hard disk drive, a RAM, CD-ROMs, DVD-ROMs, and transmission-type media, such as digital and analog communications links, wired or wireless communications links using transmission forms, such as, for example, radio frequency and light wave transmissions. The computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for actual use in a particular data processing system.","The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention, the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The novel features believed characteristic of the invention are set forth in the appended claims. The invention itself, however, as well as a preferred mode of use, further objectives and advantages thereof, will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description of an illustrative embodiment when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
