---
title: Productivity measurement and management tool
abstract: A system for managing and monitoring a project to be developed is provided. The system includes a first and a second document, the first document identifies a first set of interactions between a plurality of applications. The first set of interactions identifies functionality of the project to be developed. The second document identifies a second set of interactions within at least one of the applications. The second set of interactions identifies additional functionality of the project. The system also includes a baseline document and an estimator component. The baseline document identifies existing functions of interactions between the applications and existing functions of interactions within applications. The estimator component is operable to access the first, second, and baseline document and to count a number of interactions identified in the first and second sets of interactions not identified in the baseline document of existing functions of interactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07640531&OS=07640531&RS=07640531
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 07640531
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040614
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","REFERENCE TO A MICROFICHE APPENDIX","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["None.","Not applicable.","Not applicable.","The present disclosure is directed to computer software for managing development projects, and more particularly, but not by way of limitation, to a productivity measurement and management tool and method.","It is desirable to complete development projects on time and within the budget allocated to complete the projects. Accurately estimating the level of effort (LOE), or man-hours, needed to complete the project contributes towards realistic project scheduling and project budgeting. Without an accurate LOE estimate for the project, for example, too few developers may be applied to the project and the project may be delivered late and\/or over budget.","Various methods of estimating the LOE needed to complete a project have been employed with varying degrees of success. Function point analysis involves identifying and counting functionalities or function points to be delivered by a project based on a requirements document or other statement of deliverable functionality. The more function points to be delivered, the greater the LOE needed to complete the project.","Enterprises may choose to contract with independent providers to develop software functionality, a practice commonly termed outsourcing. It is desirable to measure the productivity of the outsourcing activities and to scrutinize outsourcing bids.","According to one embodiment, a method for electronically managing application development is provided. The method includes providing a first document containing a first list of functions associated with interactions between a plurality of applications, and providing a second document containing a second list of functions associated with interactions within one or more of the plurality of applications. The method provides for defining a project for development, wherein at least some of a plurality of functionalities of the project are defined based on the interactions provided in one or more of the first and second documents. The method includes providing a baseline document containing a third list of existing functions of interactions related to one or more of the applications, and generating a count reflecting a total number of functions in the first and second lists which are not associated with existing functions in the third list contained in the baseline document.","According to another embodiment, a method of managing application development is provided. The method includes maintaining, in a first document, a first list of functions to develop for an application, and maintaining, in a second document, a second list of existing functions. The method includes providing a tool that is operable to communicate with the first and second documents, and using the tool to count a number of functions in the first list. The tool is also operable to monitor the second list and reduce the count for functions in the first list having associated existing functions in the second list.","In another embodiment, a system for managing a project to be developed is provided. The system includes a first and a second document, the first document identifying a first set of interactions between a plurality of applications. The first set of interactions identifying functionality of the project to be developed. The second document identifying a second set of interactions within at least one of the applications. The second set of interactions identifying additional functionality of the project. The system also includes a baseline document and an estimator component. The baseline document identifies existing functions of interactions between the applications and existing functions of interactions within applications. The estimator component is operable to access the first, second, and baseline document and to count a number of interactions identified in the first and second sets of interactions not identified in the baseline document of existing functions of interactions.","These and other features and advantages will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.","It should be understood at the outset that although an exemplary implementation of one embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated below, the present system may be implemented using any number of techniques, whether currently known or in existence. The present disclosure should in no way be limited to the exemplary implementations, drawings, and techniques illustrated below, including the exemplary design and implementation illustrated and described herein.","Accurately estimating the LOE required to complete development projects, for example software development projects, has been found to be challenging. LOE estimating may occur during a planning or an analysis phase of a project. The employment of function point analysis to estimate the LOE has some disadvantages. For example, estimating LOE based on function point analysis is a highly subjective and manually intensive process. Personnel may have to analyze documents and perform the function point analysis manually, a labor intensive and time consuming activity. Additionally, the criteria for identifying function points may be ambiguous. It sometimes happens that different analysts working on the same proposed project functionality may arrive at different function point counts. The present disclosure, according to one embodiment, is directed to a tool which can automatically generate a level of effort estimate based on objective criteria. The tool allows organizations to readily and accurately identify all the functionality required by a new application or project to be developed by an outsourced supplier. The tool also identifies any of the functionality that has already been developed, such as in a previous project, to accurately assess development costs and avoid being charged by an outsourcing provider for developing functionality that may have already been developed.","A business operation point (BOP) is defined to be a communication or an interaction described in an analysis model, where the communication is between any two applications or, within an application, between any two components. A modeled communication request is a business operation point, and a modeled communication response to the request is another business operation point. The modeled communication may be a method call or an API call invoked by one application or component. The modeled communication may be a return from a method call or an API call, such as a response, provided by one application or component. Since the business operation points are defined to be part of the analysis model, counting business operation points may be performed prior to the implementation phase of the project and may be used to calculate the LOE of the implementation and deployment phase of the project. As such, the LOE based, at least in part, on the business operation points count may be used to negotiate an outsourcing contract for implementing and deploying the project. For example, the LOE may be used to define a \u201cnot to exceed\u201d contract. Additionally, the business operation points count may be used, along with actual LOE expended to complete the project, to quantify the development productivity of the completed project.","Turning now to , a block diagram of a system  according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted. A business operation point tool  is in communication with a database . The business operation point tool  includes a business operation point counter  that counts the number of business operation points associated with a model of a project. The business operation point tool  also includes a LOE estimator  that estimates the LOE associated with completing the project. The business operation point tool  also includes a productivity calculator  that calculates a productivity metric for the project. The LOE produced by the LOE estimator  is preferably expressed as the estimated number of development hours needed to complete the project. The business operation point tool  is a software application which may execute on a general purpose computer system. General purpose computer systems are discussed in detail hereinafter. In an embodiment, the business operation point counter , the LOE estimator , and the productivity calculator  may be separated or combined in various ways. For example, the business operation point counter  and LOE estimator  may be combined in a software component. Alternately, the business operation point counter , the LOE estimator , and the productivity calculator  may all be combined in a software component.","The database  includes an inter-application document  identifying interactions or communications between a plurality of applications involved in providing the functionality contemplated by the project. The applications may be existing applications which are being extended to provide new functionality. Alternately, the applications may be planned to be developed specifically for the project. The interactions between applications may be application programming interface (API) method calls.","The database  includes one or more intra-application documents \u2014a first intra-application document , a second intra-application document , and a third intra-application document \u2014that identify interactions or communications within each of the applications involved in providing the functionality contemplated by the project. The database  includes an existing interactions document  which identifies existing interactions or communications between existing applications and interactions or communications within existing applications. In some cases, the existing interactions document  may not be provided, as when the system  is first deployed and there is no information on interactions available from previous projects or in a start-up software development organization.","Taken together, the inter-application document  and the intra-application documents  provide at least a part of an analysis model of the project. In some embodiments, other documents may provide other parts of the analysis model of the project. Additionally, the inter-application document  and the intra-application documents  may contain other information in addition to interactions. The existing interactions document  may provide at least a part of one or more analysis models associated with completed projects. In an embodiment, the interactions document  may be composed of a plurality of analysis model documents associated with completed projects.","The database  also includes a plurality of project data \u2014a first project data , a second project data , and a third project data \u2014associated with projects. Data may be stored for completed projects, projects in a development stage, and projects in a planning stage. The project data  may include the business operation point count associated with a completed project and the actual LOE expended on the completed project. The project data  may also include the business operation point count and estimated LOE for a project in a planning stage. In an embodiment, the database  may be distributed across multiple storage devices and across multiple independent database systems.","The inter-application document , the intra-application documents , and the existing interactions document  may be manually edited specifically to support the system  or may be provided as one or more documents developed as part of a software development process, for example during an analysis modeling phase of the software development process. It may happen that different personnel may perform analysis modeling at different levels of detail. To promote consistency of the analysis model, which may tend to promote consistent business operation point counting and LOE estimating by the business operation point tool , it may be desirable to rigorously define in a process document or procedures manual the content and appropriate level of detail to be provided in the inter-application document  and the intra-application documents . An industry standard architectural model or process model, such as the enhanced telecom operations map (eTOM) in the telecommunications industry, may be employed to identify and articulate appropriate levels of detail. The project data  may be manually edited specifically to support the system  or may be provided as one or more documents developed as part of a project management effort.","The business operation point counter  is operable to access the database  and to read a plurality of interaction information from the inter-application document  and the intra-application documents  and to analyze the interaction information to count interactions identified in the interaction information as possible business operation points. The business operation point counter  is also operable to read the existing interactions document  and to compare interactions found in the existing interactions document  with interactions found in the inter-application document  and the intra-application documents . If an interaction counted as a possible business operation point is found in the existing interactions document , the possible business operation point is not counted as a new business operation point, because the subject interaction has already been developed and may be reused by the developers.","The business operation point counter  counts an individual business operation point only once. For example, a business operation point which may be new to the project may be employed multiple times in the project. This business operation point is only counted once in the count of business operation points. While in the preferred embodiment the business operation point count accorded an inter-application interaction or communication is weighted equal to an intra-application interaction or communication, in other embodiments inter-application interaction or communications may be weighted differently relative to an intra-application interaction or communication. The business operation point counter  may store the business operation point count in the project data  associated with the project, for example project data ","The LOE estimator  generates a LOE for a project based on the business operation point count produced by the business operation point counter . The LOE estimator  may invoke the business operation point counter  to generate the business operation point count or may look up the business operation point count stored by the business operation point counter  in the project data , for example project data . In one embodiment the LOE is calculated solely on the basis of the business operation point count. The LOE may be calculated as a linear function of the business operation point count, as for example LOE=k*(count of BOPs), where k is a proportionality constant. For example, one possible mapping of business operation point to LOE may be LOE=(50 hours per BOP)*(count of BOPs). The LOE imputed to each business operation point may include all implementation activities, for example building software loads, testing software loads, documenting the implementation, and other activities. Alternately, LOE may be calculated as a non-linear function of the business operation point count, for example using a look-up table where the proportionality constant k is looked up in a table based on the business operation point count.","In another embodiment, the LOE is calculated based on the business operation point count and project data  associated with completed projects stored in the database . The project data  may be averaged across all completed projects to produce a simple average LOE per business operation point number. Alternately, projects may be categorized, and the completed project data  may be selected to employ only data from completed projects that are similar to the project being estimated. The business operation point tool  may permit an operator to select specific completed projects from the project data  to use in calculating the LOE. The process of using data from the project data  to adjust the calculation of LOE may be termed calibrating the LOE calculation. In an embodiment, the LOE calculation may be adjusted based on the type of software being developed, for example embedded type software, mission critical type software, non-mission critical type software, information technology type software, banking transaction type software, and other definable types of software. Adjusting the calculation of LOE based on the type of software may also be termed calibrating the LOE calculation.","In an embodiment, the business operation points are partitioned into two types of data business operations and three types of transaction business operations. Data type business operations may include internal logical files type of business operations points and external interfaces files type of business operation points. Transaction type business operations may include external inputs type of business operation points, external outputs type of business operations points, and external queries type of business operations points. The LOE estimator  may calculate LOE based partly on the business operation point types. For example, the LOE may be calculated as:\n\nLOE=(count of BOP type1)*+(count of BOP type2)*+(count of BOP type3)*+(count of BOP type4)*+(count of BOP type5)*\n\nwhere kis the proportionality constant associated with the first type of data business operation point, and so on where kis the proportionality constant associated with the relative business operation point type. In some embodiments, either more or fewer types of business operation points may be supported. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the several alternative methods of calculating LOE described above may readily be extended to apply to the case of multiple business operation point types.\n","The productivity calculator  calculates a productivity metric for a completed project that relates the actual LOE expended to complete the project to the business operation points delivered by the project. When a project has been completed, both the count of business operation points implemented by the project and the actual LOE expended to complete the project may be saved in an appropriate project data , for example the project data . The productivity calculator  is operable to access the database  and to read the project data , for example the project data . The count of business operation points implemented by the project and the actual LOE expended on the project are read from the project data , and the productivity metric is calculated. In one embodiment a productivity index (PI) is calculated as:\n\nPI=LOE\/(count of BOPs)\n\nProductivity is improved as the value of PI decreases\n","Related productivity metrics may also be calculated by the productivity calculator . For example, a productivity change rate in percent may be calculated to indicate whether productivity is increasing or decreasing and to what degree. In one embodiment, the productivity rate of change is calculated as:\n\nProductivity rate of change=[(PI()\/PI(1))\u22121]*100\n\nwhere PI(n) is the productivity of the n-th completed project and PI(n\u22121) is the productivity of the project completed just before the n-th completed project. Other productivity metrics readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art, and all such productivity metrics based on business operation points are contemplated by the present disclosure.\n","The business operation point tool  automates the process of sizing a project, such as estimating the LOE for implementing a project, which is less expensive and time consuming than manual LOE estimation techniques. The business operation point tool  provides repeatable, objective results. Where a development organization currently prepares detailed analysis models as a part of the development process, the data that the business operation point tool  analyzes to generate the business operation point count and the LOE estimate are already available. Additionally, the analysis model is timely available to provide the business operation point count and the LOE estimate when it is needed to provide input to an outsourcing contract negotiation. While some of the above discussion was drawn to examples from the software development art, the business operation point tool  may be employed with any project with access to a detailed analysis model during the project planning phase.","The business operation point tool  may be employed in a variety of manners at various times during the development process, as will readily suggest themselves to one skilled in the art. The business operation point count may be generated and the productivity index PI may be calculated at various points, such as part way through a project or development effort, to evaluate whether the project or development effort is making good progress or to determine whether a problem exists and corrective action should be taken. Various progress metrics based on the count of business operation points completed versus the count of business operation points total may be calculated.","Also, in some embodiments, the business operation point count may be used directly to set an outsourcing price. For example, each business operation point may be associated with a development cost and the net count may be multiplied times the cost per business operation point to obtain the outsourcing price for the development. It will be appreciated that numerous other factors associated with application development and well known to those skilled in the art may be included in this calculation as well. The productivity rate of change metric described above may be used to mandate productivity improvements to the outsourcing firm or to design incentive packages for outsourcing firms. All of these uses for the business operation point tool  are contemplated by the present disclosure.","Turning now to , a block diagram of the system  according to another embodiment is depicted. The business operation point tool  is in communication with a computer aided software engineering (CASE) tool  used to perform analysis model activities. The CASE tool  is in communication with an analysis model database . The analysis model database  contains a plurality of interface control documents (ICDs)  and a plurality of application model documents (AMDs) . The ICDs  identify inter-application interactions, for example in the form of sequence diagrams. The AMDs  identify intra-application interactions, for example in the form of sequence diagrams. Sequence diagrams, also known as message sequence diagrams, graphically depict communications between applications, between software components, between classes or objects, or other software entities. Sequence diagrams also graphically depict the temporal relationship or sequence of the communications. Both the ICDs  and the AMDs  may contain additional information irrelevant to the system . The ICDs  and the AMDs  may be associated with completed projects, projects in the implementation phase, and projects in the analysis phase. The ICDs  and AMDs  taken together represent the analysis model of the project.","The CASE tool  is employed to create and to maintain the ICDs  and the AMDs . In an embodiment, the CASE tool  aligns with or supports a unified modeling language (UML) based analysis methodology. Linking the business operation point tool  with the CASE tool  may leverage the benefits of the CASE tool  and may also further enforce the analysis model approach to software development.","The business operation point counter  may access the ICDs  and the AMDs  by accessing the analysis model database  directly or indirectly via the CASE tool . The functionality and communications of the LOE estimator  and the productivity calculator  are substantially similar to the system  described above. In an embodiment, an interface for accessing and controlling the business operation point tool  may be added into the interface of the CASE tool . In an embodiment, the CASE tool  is an IBM RationalRose\u00ae CASE tool. The CASE tool  may be used to identify current or new projects and, using the ICDs  and\/or AMDs , determine the functionality required to enable a new application, for example. This functionality may be associated with the business operation points, which may be identified using the business operation point counter . Also, whether any of the business operation points have been previously developed may be determined by the business operation point tool  by referencing the, for example prior project data  and\/or existing interactions document . By calculating the business operation points for the new project or application, and subtracting those already developed, an accurate estimate of the time and\/or cost may be developed. The business operation points may be counted independent of the coding implementation language, for example Java, C, COBOL, or other languages. Also adjustment factors to account for complexity based on platform dependence and automating the counting of the adjustment factor may be made as well.","Turning now to , a method for counting the new business operation points to be developed to complete the project is depicted. At block , a sequence diagram of the ICD  is created. The sequence diagram of the ICD  may be created using the CASE tool . The sequence diagram of the ICD  identifies interactions between applications involved in the project. In some embodiments the interactions between applications may be identified in a different document.","The method proceeds to block  where a sequence diagram of one AMD  is created, for example a first AMD . The sequence diagram of the first AMD may be created using the CASE tool . The sequence diagram of the first AMD identifies interactions between components of a single application involved in the project. In some embodiments, the interactions between components of a single application may be identified in a different document.","The method proceeds to block  where, if there are more AMDs  to be created, for example a second AMD and a third AMD , the method returns to block . By looping repeatedly through blocks  and , a plurality of AMDs  may be created. When all AMDs  have been created, the method proceeds to block  where an interaction is read from the sequence diagrams of the ICD  or the AMD . The method proceeds to block  where the interaction read in block  is compared to all interactions which are deemed part of a baseline. The baseline may be represented by the existing interactions document  or may be extracted from the ICDs  and AMDs  which are located in the analysis database  and known to be associated with completed projects.","The method proceeds to block  where, if the interaction is determined to not be in the baseline, the method proceeds to block  where the business operation point count is incremented. The process proceeds to block  where, if all interactions have not been read, the process returns to block . In block , if the interaction is determined to be in the baseline, the method proceeds to block  and the business operation point count is not incremented.","By looping repeatedly through blocks , , , and  all business operation points are counted that do not represent business operation points already in the baseline. In block , when all interactions have been analyzed, the method exits and the business operation point count is final.","The system described above may be implemented on any general-purpose computer with sufficient processing power, memory resources, and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it.  illustrates a typical, general-purpose computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system  includes a processor  (which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU) that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage , read only memory (ROM) , random access memory (RAM) , input\/output (I\/O) devices , and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.","The secondary storage  is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non-volatile storage of data and as an over-flow data storage device if RAM  is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage  may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM  when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM  is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM  is a non-volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM  is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM  and RAM  is typically faster than to secondary storage .","I\/O devices  may include printers, video monitors, liquid crystal displays (LCDs), touch screen displays, keyboards, keypads, switches, dials, mice, track balls, voice recognizers, card readers, paper tape readers, or other well-known input devices. The network connectivity devices  may take the form of modems, modem banks, ethernet cards, universal serial bus (USB) interface cards, serial interfaces, token ring cards, fiber distributed data interface (FDDI) cards, wireless local area network (WLAN) cards, radio transceiver cards such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) radio transceiver cards, and other well-known network devices. These network connectivity devices  may enable the processor  to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection, it is contemplated that the processor  might receive information from the network, or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above-described method steps.","Such information, which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor  for example, may be received from and outputted to the network, for example, in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices  may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors, in coaxial cables, in waveguides, in optical media, for example optical fiber, or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences, as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave, or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed, may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.","The processor  executes instructions, codes, computer programs, scripts which it accesses from hard disk, floppy disk, optical disk (these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ), ROM , RAM , or the network connectivity devices .","While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure, it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein, but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. For example, the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted, or not implemented.","Also, techniques, systems, subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems, modules, techniques, or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be coupled through some interface or device, such that the items may no longer be considered directly coupled to each but may still be indirectly coupled and in communication with one another. Other examples of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure and the advantages thereof, reference is now made to the following brief description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings and detailed description, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
