---
title: Method and apparatus for reproducing AV data in interactive mode, and information storage medium thereof
abstract: A method and apparatus for reproducing audio/visual data in an Enhanced Navigation mode, and an information storage medium thereof. The information storage medium stores audio/visual data, and at least one Enhanced Navigation application including at least one Enhanced Navigation file, the Enhanced Navigation file being reproduced together with the audio/visual data, wherein the Enhanced Navigation application includes a loading information file, which includes preload information specifying the location of the Enhanced Navigation file to be buffered before reproduction of the Enhanced Navigation application, as the Enhanced Navigation file. Accordingly, it is possible to guarantee seamless reproduction of audio/visual data for an Enhanced Navigation application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07650063&OS=07650063&RS=07650063
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07650063
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20040723
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the priority of Korean Patent Application No. 2003-56607, filed on Aug. 14, 2003, in the Korean Intellectual Property Office, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for preloading Enhanced Navigation (ENAV) data required for seamless reproduction of audio\/video (AV) data in an improved navigation mode (hereinafter referred to as an \u2018ENAV mode\u2019), to a buffer and reproducing the preloaded ENAV data, and an information storage medium thereof.","2. Description of the Related Art","Personal computer (PC)-based digital versatile discs (DVDs), i.e., interactive DVDs, capable of reproducing AV data in an interactive mode have been placed on the market. On an interactive DVD, AV data is recorded according to a general DVD-Video standard and data is further recorded to support an ENAV mode. The AV data recorded on the interactive-DVD can be displayed in two modes: a video mode in which AV data is displayed with the same method of displaying data recorded on a general DVD, and an ENAV mode in which the AV data is reproduced and displayed in a window defined in a markup document. When a user selects the ENAV mode, a browser built in a personal computer (PC) interprets and displays ENAV data recorded on the interactive DVD. In the ENAV mode, a screen is displayed as defined in the markup document and\/or an application program while the AV data, which is selected by the user, is included in the screen. A representative example of the ENAV data is the markup document described using a markup language.","If the AV data is a movie title, a movie screen is displayed in a part of a markup screen where the markup document is interpreted and displayed, the movie screen being embedded into the markup screen, and various additional information, such as a script and plot of the movie and photos of related actors and actresses, regarding the movie is displayed in the other part of the markup screen. The additional information includes various resource files such as image files and text files. The displayed markup document enables interaction with the user. For instance, when the user clicks a button in the markup screen, the profile of an actor appearing in the movie screen can be displayed.","However, in the ENAV mode, it is required for a DVD drive installed in the PC to read ENAV data from the interactive DVD and store the ENAV data in a buffer while reading the AV data from the interactive DVD and storing it in the buffer. Accordingly, it is difficult to reproduce the AV data without a pause. That is, seamless reproduction of the AV data is not guaranteed.","The invention provides an apparatus and method for preloading ENAV data to a buffer and reproducing the preloaded ENAV data for seamless reproduction of the AV data in an ENAV mode using the ENAV data, and an information storage medium thereof.","According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided an information storage medium comprising AV data; and at least one ENAV application including at least one ENAV file, the ENAV file being reproduced together with the AV data, wherein the ENAV application includes a loading information file, which includes preload information specifying the location of the ENAV file to be buffered before reproduction of the ENAV application, as the ENAV file.","The loading information file may further include post load information that specifies the location of the ENAV file to be buffered during reproduction of the ENAV application.","The loading information file may be linked to a startup file, linked to an ENAV file constituting a different ENAV application, or designated through an API recorded in an ENAV file constituting a different ENAV application.","According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of reproducing AV data in an ENAV mode, the method including reading a loading information file; parsing the loading information file; interpreting the verified loading information file and transmitting preload information, which specifies the location of an ENAV file to be preloaded, to a buffer manager; and the buffer manager controlling an ENAV buffer to preload ENAV files before reproduction of a related ENAV application, based on the received preload information.","The method may further include generating a preload trigger after completing the preloading of the ENAV file.","The method may further include reproducing the related ENAV application using buffered ENAV files and displaying related AV data in an ENAV mode.","Reproducing the related ENAV application may further include first parsing an initial ENAV file and then parsing other ENAV files, and creating a document object model tree and interpreting and executing the document object model tree according to a document life cycle.","Interpreting the verified loading information file may further include transmitting post load information, which specifies the location of an ENAV file to be post loaded, to the buffer manager.","According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a reproducing apparatus including a reader that reads AV data from a disc, an AV reproducing engine that decodes the AV data read by the reader, and an ENAV engine that interprets and executes ENAV files from the disc using the reader and allows the ENAV files to be displayed together with the AV data decoded by the AV reproducing engine. The ENAV engine preloads ENAV files required for seamless reproduction of the AV data as the ENAV files, based on preload information recorded in a loading information file.","The ENAV engine may include an ENAV buffer to which the ENAV files are preloaded, a buffer manager that controls the ENAV buffer based on the preload information, a parser that verifies the loading information file, an interpreter that interprets the preload information from the verified loading information file, and an interface handler that transmits the preload information from the interpreter to the buffer manager.","The buffer manager may produce and output a preload trigger, which indicates completing of the preloading of the ENAV files, to the interface handler after the preloading. The interface handler may convert the preload trigger into an event and transmit the event to the interpreter. After receiving the event, the interpreter may instruct the parser that an initial ENAV file among ENAV files buffered to the ENAV buffer should be first parsed and then the other ENAV files should be buffered to the ENAV buffer.","Additional aspects and\/or advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and, in part, will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention.","Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","100"]},"Each ENAV application includes a loading information file that specifies preload information, i.e., location information regarding an ENAV file that is to be buffered before a launching of a related ENAV application, wherein the preload information is necessary for the preloading of the ENAV application.","The preloading is performed for every ENAV application, such that the seamless reproduction of the AV data corresponding to each ENAV application can be guaranteed. Therefore, a producer should produce contents in which one ENAV application corresponds to a part and a chapter of a video title for the seamless reproduction of AV data, according to an user interface.","In connection with the preloading, post loading buffers a predetermined ENAV file after the launching of a corresponding ENAV application. However, the ENAV application does not always have an ENAV file to be post loaded. When post loading is required, post loading information, i.e., location information of an ENAV file to be post loaded, which is required for the post loading is further included in the loading information file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","100"]},"In the DVD-Video data zone, data VIDEO_TS.IFO having reproduction control information regarding all video titles of recorded information on the disc , data VTS010.IFO having reproduction control information regarding a first video title, and data VTS010.VOB and VTS011.VOB that are AV data constituting respective video titles, are recorded. The data VTS010.VOB, VTS011.VOB denote video titles, i.e., video objects (VOBs). Each VOB includes VOBU that is packed with a navigation pack, a video pack, and an audio pack (see a DVD-Video Standard \u201cDVD-Video for Read Only Memory Disc 1.0\u201d for more details).","An ENAV application having a plurality of ENAV files is stored in the ENAV file zone. That is, a startup file that is first read when the ENAV mode is selected and a markup document corresponding to a selected video title are recorded as ENAV files. It is understood that the ENAV application may have only one ENAV file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 4"]},"In the DVD video directory VIDEO_TS, data VIDEO_TS.IFO, VTS010.IFO, and VTS010.VOB, VTS011.VOB, . . . , which are described with reference to , are stored. In the ENAV directory DVD_ENAV, a startup file STARTUP.MLS and other ENAV files, which are also explained with reference to , are stored.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","200","300","400","400","200","100","200","100","200","300","300"]},"The reproducing apparatus  supports both the ENAV mode and the video mode. In particular, according to an aspect of the invention, a related ENAV application is preloaded from the disc  and preloaded ENAV files are interpreted and executed, in order to guarantee seamless reproduction of AV data.","The reproducing apparatus  may also access the Internet or a network to perform post loading.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["200","200","1","2","3","1","100","3","2"]},"The ENAV engine  is an interpretation engine that interprets and executes a markup language and a script language in order to support the ENAV mode, i.e., to make a presentation of ENAV files read by the reader . The ENAV engine  further includes a variety of plug-ins. A plug-in allows various format files, which are included in or linked to a markup document, to be open. That is, the ENAV engine  acts as a viewer of the markup document. Also, the ENAV engine  according to this embodiment accesses the Internet to read ENAV data therefrom.","The AV reproducing engine  decodes a video title selected in the ENAV mode and transmits a decoded AV data stream to the ENAV engine . The ENAV engine  interprets the markup document, combines the AV data stream with the markup document that undergoes rendering so that the AV data stream can be displayed in a window defined in the markup document, i.e., the AV screen is embedded into the markup screen, and outputs the result of blending to the display device .","In particular, for seamless reproduction of the AV data, the ENAV engine  preloads the ENAV files to a buffer (not shown) of the ENAV engine  and interprets the preloaded ENAV files before the AV data is reproduced. That is, the ENAV engine  obtains information regarding ENAV files to be preloaded from a loading information file read from the disc  and then performs the preloading. A detailed description of the loading information file will be later described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["3","3","31","32","33","34","35"]},"The ENAV buffer  buffers ENAV files under the control of the buffer manager , and particularly, preloads the ENAV files based on a loading information file, for seamless reproduction of AV data. Further, during post loading, the ENAV buffer  buffers the ENAV files to be post loaded.","The parser  verifies the availability of a predetermined format ENAV file preloaded to the ENAV buffer  according to a predetermined standard and converts the format of the ENAV file so that the interpreter  can read the ENAV file. For instance, when the ENAV file is a markup document, the parser  verifies the availability of the ENAV file according to a Data Type Definition (DTD) and produces a document object model tree.","The document object model tree is produced under the following conditions: the root node of all nodes is set as a document node; all texts and elements generate nodes; and processing instructions, comments, and document type generate nodes. In the case of a style sheet, the style sheet is interpreted and style rules\/selector lists are created. The style sheet allows a free setting of the style of a markup document. For example, in , the grammar and format of the style sheet are set according to the Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) of W3C.","The interpreter  receives, interprets, and executes the ENAV file from the parser . The interpretation and execution of the ENAV file are based on a document life cycle disclosed in Korean Patent Application No. 2002-31069 entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Reproducing AV Data in Interactive Mode Using Markup Document\u201d, filed on Jun. 3, 2002, and Korean Patent Application No 2002-70014 entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Reproducing AV Data in Interactive Mode Using Markup Document\u201d, filed on Nov. 12, 2002. The interface handler  controls an interface between the AV reproducing engine  and the interpreter . In other words, the interface handler  receives triggers from a user or a computer, the AV reproducing engine , the buffer manager , and the interpreter  and converts them into related events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 8A"],"b":["100","200","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A","FIGS. 8A and 8B"],"b":["9","10","10","33","100","200","200"]},"Referring to , ENAV files belonging to an ENAV application includes an anchor element linked to a loading information file related to another ENAV application. That is, the anchor element is linked to the loading information file through a tag <a href=\u201c \u201d>, <\/a>.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":"34"},"Referring to , an API that calls up a loading information file related to a different ENAV application is recorded in a last ENAV file belonging to an ENAV application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B"],"b":"34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["33","33"]},"In the loading information file, an element \u201cmanifest\u201d is used as a root element of the loading information file and two different types of an element \u201centityset\u201d are present. The first element \u201centityset\u201d includes the list of ENAV files to be preloaded and the second element \u201centityset\u201d includes the list of ENAV files to be post loaded. The location of ENAV files is indicated with an attribute \u201cxml:base\u201d in each of the elements \u201centityset\u201d. Also, the location of each ENAV file is indicated with an element \u201cinitial\u201d or an element \u201centity\u201d. The element \u201cinitial\u201d designates a markup document that should be first executed after the preloading. It is required that the elements \u201cinitial\u201d and \u201centity\u201d include an attribute \u201chref\u201d that designates the location of ENAV file.","Hereinafter, a method of reproducing AV in an ENAV mode data according to the invention is described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIGS. 7A"],"b":["33","7","8","8","9","9","34","33","1201","34","1202","34","35","35","31","31","32","1203","32","33","33","100","1204","32","33","31","1205","31","35"]},"After the preloading, ENAV files, including an initial ENAV file, which must be first reproduced by the ENAV engine , are loaded to the ENAV buffer . The initial ENAV file is a markup document designated by an element \u201cinitial\u201d. When the interpreter  receives the event made according to a buffer trigger indicating the completing of preloading, the interpreter  allows the parser  to read the initial ENAV file from the ENAV buffer  so as to determine the availability of the initial ENAV file and then receive, interpret, and execute the verified initial ENAV file (operation ). After the execution of the initial ENAV file, the ENAV files are also interpreted and executed using the same method.","When there are ENAV files to be post loaded after operation , i.e., during reproduction of ENAV files that were preloaded and buffered, the ENAV files are continuously loaded to the ENAV buffer . That is, the ENAV buffer  buffers ENAV files received via a network under control of the buffer manager . After the post loading, the buffer manager  sets a status \u201callDone\u201d indicating the status of the ENAV buffer  as \u201cTRUE.\u201d","When there are no ENAV files to be post loaded after operation , the ENAV manager  sets the status \u201callDone\u201d as \u201cTRUE\u201d so as to indicate completing of loading of ENAV files. That is, the ENAV buffer  buffers ENAV files received via a network under control of the buffer manager . After the post loading, the buffer manager  sets a status \u201callDone\u201d indicating the status of the ENAV buffer  as \u201cTRUE\u201d. The interpreter  can check whether the loading of ENAV files is complete using an allDone API as a property.","A method of reproducing AV data in the interactive mode according to the invention can be performed as a computer program. Codes and code segments constituting the program can be derived by a computer programmer in this field. In addition, the method may be performed in the interactive mode by storing the program in a computer readable medium and having a computer read and execute the program. The computer readable medium may be a magnetic recording medium, an optical recording medium, or a carrier wave medium.","As described above, according to the present invention, seamless reproduction of AV data can be performed through preloading of ENAV files belonging to an ENAV application for the AV data. Further, the present invention clearly describes a process of preloading of ENAV files operation by operation, thereby enabling compatibility of preloading with respect to a reproducing apparatus and an information storage medium thereof.","Although a few embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in this embodiment without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention, the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and\/or other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent by describing in detail exemplary embodiments thereof with reference to the attached drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A","b":["9","10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
