---
title: Techniques for recovering optical spectral features using a chirped optical field
abstract: Techniques for recovering optical spectral features include receiving a detected time series that represents a temporally varying intensity of an optical signal. The optical signal is formed in response to an interaction between a target optical spectrum and a chirped optical field. The chirped optical field is an optical field that has a monochromatic frequency that varies in time. The target optical spectrum is an optical frequency dependent optical property of a material or device. A phase correction factor is determined based only on one or more properties of the chirped optical field. The detected time series is corrected based on the phase correction factor to produce an output time series that reproduces in time a shape of the target spectrum in frequency. These techniques allow for fast measurement of spectral features and eliminate the need for prior knowledge of the target optical spectrum to adjust the chirp rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07145713&OS=07145713&RS=07145713
owner: Montana State University
number: 07145713
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050712
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60\/587,331, filed Jul. 13, 2004, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e).","This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. MDA-972-03-1-0002 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and Montana Board of Research and Commercialization Technology (Grant #03-08). The Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to optical signal processing to determine features of a target optical spectrum, and, in particular, to the use of a chirped optical field to recover the target optical spectrum. Here a target optical spectrum is a spectrum at optical frequencies that is output by a device, included inherently in a material or device, or recorded by artificial action in a material or device, or formed in some combination.","2. Description of the Related Art","Information processing based on optical analog signal processing promises to provide advantages in speed, size and power over current information processing systems. Many versatile optical coherent transient (OCT) processing devices have been proposed. An OCT device relies on broadband complex spatial-spectral grating formed in the optical properties of a material, such as an inhomogeneously broadened transition (IBT) material, also called a spatial-spectral (S2) material. A spatial-spectral grating has the ability to generate a broadband optical output signal that depends on an optical probe waveform impinging on that grating and the one or more interacting optical signals that formed the grating.","In some OCT devices, the approach to accessing the information in the spatial-spectral grating is to probe that grating with a high bandwidth, Fourier-transform-limited optical signal, such as a coherent brief optical pulse, or a series of such coherent brief optical pulses. Under certain conditions, the probing of the grating can produce optical output signals that are generally referred to as stimulated photon echoes or optical coherent transients. A single brief coherent light pulse with a bandwidth equal to that of the spectral grating stimulates a time-delayed output signal whose temporal profile represents the Fourier transform of the spectrum recorded in the grating structure.","While useful in many applications, the approach of readout with a high bandwidth, Fourier-transform-limited coherent brief optical pulse or series of optical pulses at the full bandwidth of processing can suffer, at present, from the limited performance in dynamic range of photo-detectors and analog to digital converters (ADCs, also called digitizers) that are needed to make a measurement of any instantaneous high bandwidth optical signal. Existing high bandwidth detectors and ADCs have limited performance and higher cost as compared to lower bandwidth detectors and digitizers.","Swept frequency modulated optical signals are called \u201cchirped optical fields\u201d and \u201cchirped laser fields\u201d herein. The frequency sweep can be linear in time with a constant chirp rate (called linear chirp or linear frequency modulation, LFM) or non-linear with a time varying chirp rate. Optical LFM signals have been used as probe waveforms in pulse sequences to write spatial-spectral gratings for applications of storage, signal processing, true time delay generation, and arbitrary waveform generation, and also for readout of spectral gratings. LFM probe waveforms generate a temporal output signal that represents a collective readout of all the absorbers, as with the brief pulse excitation, but under the condition of swept excitation. By properly choosing the rate of frequency change with time, called herein the chirp rate \u03ba, a temporal readout is produced that is slow enough to be digitized by low cost, high performance digitizers in the frequency bands of interest. See for example, published International Patent application WO 2003\/098384 entitled \u201cTechniques for processing high time-bandwidth signals using a material with inhomogeneously broadened absorption spectrum, Inventors: K. D. Merkel, Z. Cole, K. M. Rupavatharam, W. R. Babbitt, T. Chang and K. H. Wagner, 27 Nov. 2003 (hereinafter Merkel), the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.","The concept of using a chirped laser field as a probe signal has been called spectral-to-temporal mapping. Coherent interaction of resonances of the physical system with the chirped laser field is called a stimulated photon echo or optical coherent transient effect. Commonly, this interaction results in a response signal that is a time varying change to the amplitude and\/or phase of the probe field. The frequency sweep rate or chirp rate, \u03ba, is defined as the frequency scan range, or bandwidth, B, divided by the duration of the sweep time, \u03c4c, as given by Expression 1a\n\n\u2003\u2003(1a)\n","In some cases, the response field phase and amplitude can be directly observed. For some other cases, e.g., at optical frequencies, in order to obtain the full information about both the phase and the amplitude, a heterodyne detection scheme is used, where a reference field interferes with the response signal. Typically the reference field is close in frequency with the response signal so that a lower frequency beat output is produced that is readily observable with photo-detectors and high performance digitizers. Under some conditions, heterodyne detection is automatic, such as when the probe field spatially overlaps the response signal and acts as a reference, as in the case of absorption or dispersion. In other cases, the output signal is distinct from the probe field and a reference field is made to interfere with the response signal before being received by a measurement apparatus, such as a digitizing detector.","It has been observed that the detected signal received by the detectors is not a simple mapping in time of a target optical spectrum with which the probe signal interacts, but often includes spurious features. For example, an attenuated ringing of a single peak spectral feature in a target optical spectrum is observed in the detected signal. The composite ringing of multiple spectral features leads to a complex distortion of the target optical spectrum when mapped into a temporal readout signal.","A commonly used method to reduce the distortion to a negligible level is to limit the chirp rate to a slow sweep rate, usually set by an inequality such as in Expression 1b\n\n\u03ba<<\u0393\u2003\u2003(1b)\n\nWhere \u0393 is the width of the finest spectral feature in the system. The use of a slow sweep rate to avoid distortion has been applied in various physical systems, such as acoustic systems, electric circuits, and optical systems.\n","For example, in optical absorption spectroscopy, the frequency swept excitation is widely used to directly map the absorption spectrum to the time domain; and the frequency chirped field is applied at a slow chirp rate to reduce the distortions, (S. P. Anokhow, V. I. Kravchenko, and M. S. Soskin, \u201cRapid spectroscopy using lasers with swept lasing frequency\u201d, Opt. Spectrosc. 36(1), 10(1972)). Anokhow et. al. pointed out that \u201cFrom the point of view of laser spectroscopy the most interesting mode of operation is adiabatically slow sweeping\u201d and also that \u201cUnder adiabatically slow frequency sweeping the shape of the luminescence line does not have any appreciable effect on the kinetics, and the amplitude of the peaks results from the pumping intensity\u201d. Duppen et. al. also observed the problem that using a fast chirp rate results in distortions, or asymmetrical ringing on the response in frequency chirped four wave mixing experiments (K. Duppen, F. de Haan, E. T. J. Nibbering, and D. A. Wiersma, \u201cChirped four-wave mixing\u201d, Phys. Rev. A. 47, 5120(1993)). The sweep rate limit was also pointed out in the response of the frequency chirped excitation of a Fabry-Perot interferometer (M. J. Lawrence, B. Willke, M. E. Husman, E. K. Gusman, E. K. Gustafson, and R. L. Byer, J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, 16(4), 523(1999)). Optical frequency chirped fields have been used for readout of the spectral features in inhomogeneously broadened spectral materials. In the majority of such measurements, to map the spectral features to the temporal domain, the chirp rates were set to be slow with respect to the width of the finest spectral feature (C. M. Jefferson and A. J. Meixner, Chem. Phys. Lett. 189, 60(1992), A. J. Meixner, C. M. Jefferson, and R. M. Macfarlane, Phys. Rev. B 46, 5912(1992), Z. Cole, T. Bottger, R. K. Mohan, R. Reibel, W. R. Babbitt, R. L. Cone, and K. D. Merkel, Appl. Phys. Lett. 81, 3525(2002)). The entire contents of each of these references are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.","While a slow chirp rate can reduce such distortions, the use of a slow chirp rate is not always desirable or applicable. For example, a disadvantage of the slow chirp rate requirement is the need to know or accurately estimate the spectral resolution of the finest significant features in the spectrum of interest. Often the finest spectral resolution is not known. In some applications, the readout time is limited and a fast chirp rate (e.g., \u03ba\u2267\u0393) is required to cover a sufficient bandwidth of interest.","For another example, in some applications of optical spectroscopy techniques, such as cavity ringdown absorption spectroscopy, which is a highly sensitive and accurate way to measure weak gas-phase molecular spectra, a fast chirp is required to enhance the performance. A swept-carrier frequency of the laser is used to observe the detected signal as the heterodyne beating between the transmitted field and the impulse response, and the distortions due to a fast frequency sweep are clearly observed.","In one approach, (Y. He, B. J. Orr, J. Chinese Chem. Soc, 48, 591(2001); Y. He, B. J. Orr, Appl. Phys. B75 267(2002); Y. He, B. J. Orr, Appl. Phys. B79, 941(2004)) subsequent steps were then taken to convert the temporal distortions into an envelope only function using a demodulating logarithmic amplifier, to observe the cavity ringdown time, but not to compensate for the distortions.","Based on the foregoing, there is a clear need for techniques to use a chirped optical field to probe a target optical spectrum, which does not suffer the deficiencies of prior art approaches to optical readout. In particular, there is a need for techniques to read out a target optical spectrum using chirp rates that are not limited by the finest spectral resolution of the target optical spectrum, which is not known in some applications.","Techniques are provided for recovering optical spectral features in a target optical spectrum using a chirped laser field by determining and applying a frequency dependent correction factor to a detected signal. These techniques allow the determination of the spectral content of a target optical spectrum during one or more optical interactions (including, for example, optical absorption, transmission, reflection, diffraction, dispersion and scattering) of the target optical spectrum with the chirped laser field, without limitations imposed by the spectral or spatial resolution of the target optical spectrum. Here a target optical spectrum is a spectrum at optical frequencies that is output by a device, included inherently in a material or device, or recorded by artificial action in a material or device, or formed in some combination. As used herein, optical fields are understood to include all types of high frequency propagating electro-magnetic waves, including, but not limited to, visible light, infrared radiation, ultraviolet light, microwaves, millimeter waves, and terahertz waves. Optical spectra can be any spectra that have frequency dependence that modifies propagating electro-magnetic waves, including, but not limited to, visible light, infrared radiation, ultraviolet light, microwaves, millimeter waves, and terahertz waves.","In a first set of embodiments, a method includes determining a phase correction factor based only on one or more properties of a chirped optical field used to interact with a target optical spectrum. In these embodiments, the target optical spectrum is an optical frequency dependent optical property of a material or device. The chirped optical field is an optical field that has a monochromatic frequency that varies in time. A detected time series is received, which represents a temporally varying intensity of an optical signal. The optical signal is formed in response to an interaction between at least the target optical spectrum and the chirped optical field. The detected time series is corrected based on the phase correction factor to produce an output time series that reproduces in time a shape of the target spectrum in frequency.","In some embodiments of the first set, determining the phase correction factor includes determining a Fourier transform of the chirped optical field.","In some embodiments of the first set, the chirped optical field has well-known values for well-known properties, and the phase correction factor is determined based on the well-known values.","In some of these embodiments, the well-known properties include a constant chirp rate (\u03ba) that indicates a change in frequency of the chirped optical field with time, and a start frequency (\u03bds) that indicates an initial frequency at a start of the chirped optical field.","In some such embodiments, determining the phase correction further includes determining a frequency (\u03bd) dependent correction factor on a phase term \u03c6c given by the equation \u03c6c=exp[i \u03c0(2 \u03bds\u03bd\u2212\u03bd)\/\u03ba], that includes an effect of a quadratic phase, where i is the square root of \u22121 and \u03c0 is the well known ratio of a circumference to a diameter of a circle.","In some of these embodiments, correcting the detected time series includes determining a Fourier transform of the detected time series. The Fourier transform of the detected time series is multiplied by the correction factor equal to the reciprocal of the quadratic phase form \u03c6c to produce a corrected transform. An inverse Fourier transform of the corrected transform is determined to produce the output time series.","In some alternative embodiments of this set, correcting the detected time series includes determining an inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor equal to the reciprocal of the quadratic phase term \u03c6c to produce a transformed correction. The transformed correction is then convolved with the detected time series to produce the output time series.","In a second set of embodiments, a method includes receiving a detected time series that represents a temporally varying intensity of an optical signal. The optical signal is formed in response to an interaction between an incident optical field having a target optical spectrum and a material with a chirped spectral grating. The chirped spectral grating is a spectral grating of grating period that varies with optical frequency. A phase correction factor is determined based only on one or more properties of the chirped spectral grating, such as the chirp rate of a chirped optical field that formed the grating. The detected time series is corrected based on the phase correction factor to produce an output time series that reproduces in time a shape of the target spectrum in frequency.","In other sets of embodiments, a computer readable medium stores instructions used to perform one or more steps of the methods described above.","In various embodiments, these spectrum recovery techniques enable the recovery of arbitrary spectral features with arbitrarily fast readout chirp rates, provided the chirp bandwidth covers the full spectrum of interest plus an additional bandwidth \u2248\u03ba\/\u03b4\u03bd, where \u03b4\u03bd is the finest feature width and \u03ba is the chirp rate. The spectral resolution provided by the spectrum recovery technique is \u03b4\u03bd=1\/\u03c4c and is determined by the chirp duration \u03c4c instead of the chirp rate \u03ba. Thus \u0393 is the finest feature in the target optical spectrum and \u03b4\u03bd is the resolution of the recovery technique related to the chirp duration.","Furthermore, in various embodiments, these spectrum recovery techniques enable a fast measurement of spectral features over a broad spectral range with high resolution and eliminate the need for prior knowledge of the spectral feature to adjust the chirp rate, as required by conventional absorption spectroscopy. In various embodiments, spectral features over a bandwidth B, are measured with chirp rates up to \u03ba=B\u03b4\u03bd, which are fast compared to the limit of conventional absorption spectroscopy \u03ba<\u0393. In order to resolve spectral features as small as the technique resolution limit, \u03b4\u03bd, using a chirp with a rate of \u03ba, the detector is selected to have a bandwidth of \u03ba\u03b4\u03bd. For the case of maximum chirp rate, \u03ba=B\u03b4\u03bd, the detector bandwidth should be B, which is the same bandwidth desired for coherent transient spectroscopy.","Since the chirp readout in many embodiments uses heterodyne detection, where the detected signal is the beat of the response field and a reference field such as the transmitted field, the output signal is stronger than the direct detection of the power of the response signal. Since the recovery algorithm treats conventional absorption spectroscopy and coherent transient spectroscopy under the same physical framework, embodiments are applicable for a vast range of chirp rates and provide flexibility in a variety of applications, including RF signal processing and RF spectral analysis.","Techniques are described for recovering optical spectral features using a chirped laser field. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","Several embodiments of the invention are descried below in the context of spectral-spatial gratings formed by optical absorption variations in an IBT material using heterodyne detection. However, the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments of the invention, the techniques are applied to impulse responses that modify the amplitude or the phase, or both, of the electric field of the optical probe through various physical processes, including but not limited to absorption, transmission, diffraction, reflection, scattering and dispersion. Thus, in various embodiments, the technique is applied to, among other phenomena, measurement of the spectral features of an absorption or gain spectrum, naturally occurring or induced by one or more optical interactions, optical cavity reflection and transmission, Bragg grating reflections and transmission, spectrally dependent diffraction, dispersion, and diffraction from complex spatial surface gratings and volume gratings. In some embodiments, the techniques are applied to recover target optical spectra without using heterodyne detection, but instead using advanced optical detectors and digitizers yet to be produced.","1. Structural Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100"]},"Optical recording and readout system  includes one or more laser sources , laser modulators , optical materials , optical detectors , and post-detection electronics  separated by zero or more optical components (not shown) for directing optical beams, such as mirrors, phase plates, optical fibers, among others well known in the art of optics.","In the illustrated embodiment , laser sources  include an input laser  and a readout laser . These laser sources provided stabilized optical carrier frequency beams used to carry the target optical spectrum and the chirped laser field used as a probing waveform. In some embodiments, a single laser provides the carrier frequency beam for both the target optical spectrum and probe signals. In some embodiments, additional laser sources are included in laser sources .","The laser modulators  modulate the carrier frequency beams to produce signal beams with rich frequency content. In the illustrated embodiment, laser modulators  include input signal source , electro-optic phase modulators (EOPMs) ,  and arbitrary waveform generator (AWG) . In some embodiments, one or more EOPMs ,  are replaced with or added to other optical modulators such as one or more acousto-optic modulators (AOMs), electro-optic amplitude modulators, and electro-absorption modulators. In some embodiments, AWG  is replaced by other wave generators, such as one or more pulse pattern generators (PPGs).","The input signal source  is any combination of components that generate a target optical spectrum to be placed on an optical carrier for use in system . For example, input signal source  is a radio frequency signal to be analyzed, such as a radar pulse or its reflected return, or both, as described in Merkel. The input signal source is an electronic signal, such as a voltage. EOPMs  are used to modulate the optical carrier from input laser  in phase in proportion to the sign and magnitude of the applied RF voltage. This produces a phase encoded optical field  with a target optical spectrum. In other embodiments, other modulators are used in place of or in addition to EOPMs  to produce an optical field  encoded in frequency or amplitude or both with the target optical spectrum. In other embodiments, multiple modulated laser beams  in one or more directions interact to form the optical target optical spectrum. The single direction of the depicted optical field  is called a collinear geometry, which records only the spectral content of the signal. In some embodiments, various angled beam geometries are used, in which the signal  consists of multiple beams impinging on the optical material in different directions.","The AWG  generates a chirped radio frequency waveform (such as a linear radio-frequency chirp) of bandwidth B around a carrier radio frequency. The EOPM  imposes this same chirp bandwidth B on the laser carrier beam from readout laser  to produce one or more chirped laser fields  starting at an optical frequency (\u03bds). In some embodiment, AWG  is replaced by other frequency chirped RF sources, such as pulse PPGs. In some embodiments, EOPM  and EOPM  are replaced by one or more AOMs. In other embodiments, the readout laser  can create an optical chirp, and no external modulator scheme, such as the combination of components  and , is needed or used.","The optical material  records one or more optical field that impinge on the material with sufficient intensity and duration. When multiple beams interact in the optical material  at different angles, spatial-spectral structures are formed in the material. When all beams impinge in the same direction only spectral content is recorded. For example, in some embodiments the optical material is an IBT material that stores a complex spatial-spectral grating as absorption variations within a doped, low temperature crystal. In some embodiments, the one or more optical fields  produce target optical spectra as spectra or spatial-spectral gratings. In some embodiments, one or more chirped laser fields , are recorded as spectra or spatial-spectral gratings in optical material . At a later time, another optical beam is directed with relatively lower intensity to the optical material  to produce a response signal . The chirped laser field  and the optical field  may impinge on the optical material  at the same location and angle or at different locations and angles.","For heterodyne readout processes, a reference optical field  is also produced. Any method of generating a reference field may be used. In the illustrated embodiment, the reference optical field  emerges from the optical material, usually in a spatial mode that has not recorded the target optical spectrum from optical field , such as experienced by chirped laser field In some embodiments, the reference signal  is a chirped laser field (not shown) that has not passed through the optical material . In some embodiments, the reference signal  is the transmitted probe signal that is naturally in the same direction as the response signal  that itself is often delayed. Thus, in such embodiments, the signal detected at the optical detectors  is naturally heterodyne. In some embodiments, the reference signal  is a response signal from the chirped optical field interacting with one or more spatial-spectral gratings recorded in the optical material  for the purpose of generating a reference field.","In some embodiments, the optical material  is a material or device (such as an etalon) with an inherent target optical spectrum that is not the result of artificial recording. In such embodiments, components , ,  and resulting optical fields  are omitted.","The optical detectors  include one or more detectors such as optical detector  that detect the time-varying optical intensity in a certain optical bandwidth. In some embodiments, a one or two dimensional array of optical detectors like detector  are used to simultaneously detect a response signal  on multiple spatial modes. Scanned or instant images can be generated by the array of detectors. In some embodiments, the optical detector  detects only the response signal. In some embodiments, the optical detector  detects the heterodyne combination of the response signal  and reference signal . For example, the heterodyne combination generates beat frequency variations that are much lower in frequency and larger in amplitude than response signal  intensity variations; therefore the beat frequency variations are more accurately measured with current detectors. In some embodiments using chirped laser fields  with a chirp rate \u03ba that exceeds the inequality given by Expression 2 above, the signal detected by detector  is distorted.","The post-detection electronics  use electrical signals output by detectors , such as optical detector . In the illustrated embodiment, post-detection electronics  include scope , digitizer  and recovery processor . The scope  displays the output from one or more optical detectors . For example, in some embodiments, the scope  is an oscilloscope that displays analog or digital data. In some embodiments, the scope  is omitted. The digitizer  converts analog output from optical detector  to a discrete time series of digital values. In some embodiments, optical detectors  produce digital output and digitizer  is omitted. The recovery processor  determines and applies a correction factor for correcting the distorted signal detected by detector , as described in more detail below. In various embodiments, recovery processor  includes different hardware and software components that perform the methods described in the next section.","2. Functional Overview","It has been observed that the distortion in the detected signal is similar to the response of a linear resonant system to frequency swept excitation in an electrical circuit, as analyzed by Gunnar Hok, \u201cResponse of Linear Resonant System to Excitation of a Frequency Varying Linearly with Time,\u201d Journal of Applied Physics, 19, pp 242\u2013250, 1947, (hereinafter Hok) the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. In Hok, a temporally extended ringing originated from a quadratic phase of the frequency sweep. The ringing increased with the frequency sweep rate of the probe field. This ringing is deterministic and can be predicted by theory based on properties of the frequency swept excitation field.","Solutions for removing the distortion have been proposed for two different types of physical systems that do not use heterodyne or optical detection: 1) Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectroscopy; and 2) time-delay spectrometry. In these non-heterodyne cases, the impulse response amplitude and phase of the fields were measured directly, because the frequencies were in operationally advantageous ranges for detectors and digitizers in use. The detected fields were electrical fields in Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectroscopy, and were acoustic and electrical waves for time-delay spectrometry. For the Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectroscopy, a frequency swept electric field oscillating at radio frequency is used to detect the ion cyclotron resonance so that the ion mass to charge ratio can be extracted from the resonance frequency. The distortions due to the frequency sweep are corrected by deconvolving the response with the frequency-swept excitation, as described in Alan G. Marshall and D. Christopher Roe, \u201cTheory of Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectroscopy: Response to frequency-sweep excitation\u201d, J. Chem. Phys. 73(4), 1581, 1980, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Time-delay spectrometry is used to measure the frequency response functions of acoustic system and electric circuits where the distortion on the impulse response due to the fast frequency sweep is observed. The linear swept measurement is the time-delay spectrometry was analyzed using Wigner Distribution and a solution was developed to remove the distortion, as described in Mark A. Poletti, \u201cLinearly swept Frequency measurements, Time-Delay Spectrometry, and Wigner Distribution\u201d, J. Audio Eng. Soc., 36(6), 457, 1988, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. A slightly different algorithm was proposed to solve the same kind of problem in Richard Greiner, Jamsheed Wania, and Gerardo Noejovich, \u201cA Digital Approach to Time-Delay Spectrometry\u201d, J. Audio Eng. Soc., 37(7\/8) 593, 1989, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. These solutions have not included the case of optical frequency chirped fields, or a case where the distorted fields could not be measured directly, nor has the application of the solution been discussed in reference to optical resonances such as those in spatial spectral holographic materials with inhomogeneously broadened transitions.","In the illustrated embodiment, the theoretically predicted quadratic phase of a linear chirped laser field is used to determine the ringing response in heterodyne detections and to remove that ringing response from the detected signals. In other embodiments, the predicted correction factors of a more general chirped optical field are determined and used to remove distortion from the detected signals, whether heterodyne detection is used or not. For purposes of illustration, the theory for a linear chirped laser field is described here to show how a frequency dependent correction factor is determined and applied to a detected signal. However, the invention is not limited by this theory or discussion.","2.1 Theoretical Overview","For readout of the spectral features in IBT materials, the readout field is actually generated by diffraction of the probe field by spectral features, as analyzed by T. Chang, R. K. Mohan, M. Tian, T. Harris, W. R. Babbitt, and K. D. Merkel, \u201cFrequency-chirped readout of spatial-spectral absorption features\u201d, Phys. Rev. A, 70, 063803, 2004 (hereinafter, Chang I), the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Chang I observed that in a collinear geometry, the heterodyne detection comes from the beating of the impulse response field with the transmitted field, and distortions are seen in the case of fast chirp rate (\u03ba not <<\u0393). In some cases of spatial-spectral absorption features, the option of using an angled beam geometry was also pointed out, where a heterodyne detection of the input response field can be made by interaction with an external reference field.","In general, optical devices that produce an impulse response have spectral features that modify the amplitude and phase of spectral components of a probing optical field. The following discussion concentrates on absorption target spectra and their recovery, but the recovery algorithm is applicable to all materials and devices with spectral features. An electric field can be represented as,\n\n()=()\u2003\u2003(2a)\n\nwhere E(t) is a complex envelope. When this electric field is incident onto a medium with arbitrary absorption spectral features, there results, in the non-saturated regime, an output field that has spectral components described as,\n\n(\u03bd)=(\u03bd)\u2212\u03c0\u03bd(\u03bd)\u2003\u2003(2b)\n\nwhere E(\u03bd) is the Fourier transform of E(t),\n\n1\/\u221a{square root over (\u03b5\u03bc)}\u2003\u2003(2c)\n\nis the speed of light, \u03b5and \u03bcare the electric permittivity and magnetic permeability of free space, respectively, \u03bdis the optical carrier frequency, and L is the length of the optically thin medium.\n","The spectral features in the medium interacting with the probe optical field results in feedback through a polarization given by Expression 3a,\n\n(\u03bd)=\u03b5\u03c7(\u03bd)(\u03bd)\u2003\u2003(3a)\n\nwhere\n\n\u03c7(\u03bd)=\u03c7\u2032(\u03bd)+(\u03bd)\u2003\u2003(3b)\n\nis the complex susceptibility of the material.\n","Often, the target spectral features to be measured are represented by the amplitude modifying absorption coefficient \u03b1(\u03bd) rather than the complex susceptibility, \u03c7(\u03bd), since \u03b1(\u03bd) is the directly observed physical quantity in most of the measurements. The imaginary part of the complex susceptibility is related to the absorption coefficient through\n\n\u03c7\u2033(\u03bd)\u2248\u2212\u03b1(\u03bd)\u2003\u2003(3c)\n\nwhere\n\n=2\u03c0\u03bd\u2003\u2003(3d)\n\nis the wave number (2\u03c0\/wavelength) at the optical carrier frequency and nis the refraction index of the material at that frequency. The real part of the complex susceptibility, which is responsible for the dispersion that modifies the phase of the probe field, is related to the imaginary part through Kramer-Kronig's relation,\n\n\u03c7\u2032(\u03bd)=(2\/\u03c0) \u222b\u03c7\u2033()\/(\u2212\u03bd)\u2003\u2003(3e)\n","The absorption coefficient of any arbitrary spectral feature can be decomposed as,\n\n\u03b1(\u03bd)=\u222b\u03b3(\u03c4) cos [2\u03c0\u03bd\u03c4+\u03c6(\u03c4)]\u2003\u2003(4)\n\nIn the context of a spectral holographic absorption medium, \u03b1(\u03bd) is viewed as the sum of a series of sinusoidal spectral gratings, where \u03b3(\u03c4) is the amplitude and \u03c6(\u03c4) is the phase of the spectral grating of period 1\/\u03c4.\n","The complex susceptibility is thus decomposed as,\n\n\u03c7(\u03bd)=\u2212()\u222b\u03b3(\u03c4)exp[\u2212(2\u03c0\u03bd\u03c4+\u03c6(\u03c4))]\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nSo that the temporal function of the output electric field is obtained as,\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["E","out"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["E","in"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"Ln","mn":"0"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"},{"mi":"exp","mo":["\u2062","[","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"\u2148\u03c6"},{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.4em","height":"0.4ex"}}}}},{"msup":{"mi":["E","in"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"."}]}}}],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},"In the case of chirped readout, the input probe field is expressed as,\n\n()=\u2003\u2003(7a)\n\nwhere Eis the amplitude of the field, \u03bdis the start frequency of the chirp (in Hz) at t=0, and \u03ba is the chirp rate in Hz\/sec. The output is the sum of the delayed weighted replicas of the chirped pulses and the transmitted chirped pulse. The intensity of the outbound field detected as the detected signal is\n\n|()|\u03b3(\u03c4)cos(2\u03c0+\u03c6+\u03c6(\u03c4))\u2003\u2003(7b)\n\nwhere A is a constant depending on the intensity of the chirped optical field used as a probing optical field and the material. The term\n\n\u03c6=2\u03c0\u03bd\u03c4\u2003\u2003(7c)\n\nis the start frequency dependent phase, which is independent of the optical carrier frequency, and\n\n\u03c6=\u2212\u03c0\u03ba\u03c4\u2003\u2003(7d)\n\nis the quadratic phase. Under the condition\n\n|\u03c6|<<\u03c0 (i.e., |\u03ba\u03c4|<<1)\u2003\u2003(7e)\n\nthe second term of Expression 7b is proportional to \u03b1(\u03bd) with the frequency scale to time scale conversion,\n\n\u03bd=\u03ba\u2003\u2003(7f)\n\nand an offset of \u03bd\/\u03ba due to \u03c6. The output is a direct temporal map of the spectral features in the material, as in conventional absorption spectroscopy. The quadratic phase, \u03c6, is responsible for the significant deviation from the direct spectral mapping for chirp rates on the order of 1\/\u03c4or greater, where \u03c4is defined as \u03b3(\u03c4)\u22480 for \u03c4>\u03c4, where 1\/\u03c4is related to the finest spectral feature of the absorption medium. In the case of a single Lorentzian spectral hole with full width at half maximum (FWHM) \u0393, \u03b3(\u03c4) \u221dexp (\u2212\u0393\u03c4), and the distortion due to \u03c6can only be ignored when |\u03ba|<<\u0393. In general, the slow chirp readout limit \u03bais related to the finest structure \u03b4\u03bd as given by\n\n|\u03ba|=\u03b4\u03bd\u2003\u2003(7g)\n\nAccording to some embodiments of the invention, the quadratic phase is removed from the detected signal in post-processing. In a particular embodiment described in more detail below, with reference to , a three-step post-detection data processing procedure is used to correct the detected time series.\n","Step 1: Fourier transform the detected signal intensity |E(t)|. The positive frequency components of the resulting transform are used for the following processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"S","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"\u2265","mn":"0"}}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["E","c","out"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u21482\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"vt"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["A","\u03ba"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","\u03ba"],"mo":"\/"}}}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":["\u2062","[","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["v","s"]},"mrow":{"mi":["v","\u03ba"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"v","mn":"2"},"mo":"\/","mi":"\u03ba"}},{"mi":"\u03c6","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","\u03ba"],"mo":"\/"}}}}],"mo":["-","+"]}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","v"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2265","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"8","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["c=exp [i\u03c0","\u03bds\u03bd\u2212\u03bd"],"sup":"2"},"Step 2: Compensate the linear and quadratic phase for positive frequencies S(\u03bd\u22670) using multiplier function correction factor C given by\n\n\u03c0(2\u03bd\u03bd\u2212\u03bd)\/\u03ba]=\u2003\u2003(9a)\n\nyielding the corrected transform S\u2032(\u03bd) given by\n\n(\u03bd\u22670)=\u2032(\u03bd)=(\u03b3(|\u03bd\/\u03ba|)\/2\u03ba)(|\u03bd\/\u03ba|)]\u2003\u2003(9b)\n\nThe phase \u03c6(|\u03bd\/\u03ba|) and the grating amplitude \u03b3(|\u03bd\/\u03ba|) are functions of the delay, \u03c4=|\u03bd\/\u03ba|, and carry the complete information of the original spectral features. The second term Cin C is given by\n\n(\/\u03ba)\u2003\u2003(9c)\n\nand is used to compensate the quadratic phase. The first term C1 in C is given by\n\n\u03c0(2\u03bd\u03bd)\/\u03ba]\u2003\u2003(9d)\n\nand is for shifting the frequency scale to find the absolute frequency of the spectral features. It is noted that the frequency-dependent correction factors, Cand C(and hence C) depend only on the constant chirp rate \u03ba and the start frequency \u03bds. For more complex chirps, the correction factors are expected to depend on other characteristics of the chirped laser field.\n","Step 3 Inverse Fourier transform the corrected transform that results from step 2. The restored spectrum is obtained as,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"S","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["S","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"v"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}}],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":["\u21482\u03c0","vt"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"A","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}}],"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"},{"mi":"exp","mo":["\u2062","[","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0\u03c4\u03ba","t"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u03c6","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}],"mo":"+"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In some embodiments, the negative frequency components of the Fourier transform of the detected signal in step 1 can also be used for the spectral feature recovery processing. In these embodiments, the compensation multiplier is determined during step 2 as given by Expression 11.\n\n\u03c0(2\u03bd\u03bd+\u03bd)\/\u03ba]\u2003\u2003(11a)\n\nThis is equivalent to using the positive frequency components where both absorption and dispersion can be obtained. In some embodiments, both positive and negative frequency components are used for the recovery processing. In such embodiments, the compensation multiplier is\n\n\u03c0(2\u03bd(\u03bd)\u03bd)\/\u03ba]\u2003\u2003(11b)\n\nIt is again noted that the frequency-dependent correction factors, C and C depend only on the constant chirp rate \u03ba and the start frequency \u03bds. See T. Chang, M. Tian, R. K. Mohan, C. Renner, K. D. Merkel, W. R. Babbitt, \u201cRecovery of spectral features readout with frequency-chirped laser fields\u201d, Optics Letters, 30(10), 1129, 2005 (hereinafter, Chang II), the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.\n\n2.2 Method for Recovering Optical Spectral Content\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["200","200","140"]},"In step , chirp data is obtained that indicates properties of a chirped laser field  used to probe the target optical spectrum. Any method may be used to receive the chirp data. In some embodiments, values for one or more parameters that fully describe the chirped laser field are obtained from storage in a file on a computer-readable medium, or retrieved from a database, or received as manual input from a user, or received in a message from another process, such as a laser modulator control process, either unsolicited or in response to a request or prompt. In some embodiments, the chirped laser field itself is directly measured during step  at detector . In some embodiments a transform of the chirped laser field is received, e.g., the Fourier transform of the chirped laser field is received, during step . For a linear chirped laser field, the values of the constant chirp rate \u03ba and the start frequency \u03bds are sufficient chirp data to describe the chirp properties. For non-linear chirped laser fields, other properties are included to fully characterize the chirp for determining phase correction factors. In some embodiments, the chirped laser field is received and recorded during step . The chirped field can be a digitized analog signal from the chirp generation or the chirp detection, or a digital signal regenerated from the chirp generation process or characterization process.","In step , a phase correction factor is determined based on the chirp data received during step . The distortion compensation multiplier is generated in one or more ways. For example, in various embodiments using a linear chirped laser field, at least one of correction factors C, C and C are determined based on constant chirp rate \u03ba and the start frequency \u03bds as given by Expressions 9a, 11a, 11b, respectively. In some embodiments in which the correction factor is applied in the time domain, as described in more detail below, step  includes taking the inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor. In some embodiments, the chirped laser field received and recorded during step  is subjected to a Fourier transform to produce the correction factor C.","In some embodiments the correction factor is generated by taking the Fourier transform of the frequency chirped probe field, designated E(\u03bd). The correction factor is proportional to",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["E","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"v"}}},"mo":"."}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["E","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"v"}}}}},"br":{}},"In step , a detected time series is received that is based on an interaction between the chirped laser field described in step  and a target optical spectrum. For example, a response signal  based on the interaction of a chirped laser field and a target optical spectrum recorded in material  by previous interaction with the optical data signal  is detected at optical detector  and communicated to recovery processor . In some embodiments, the response signal  is received at detector  in heterodyne combination with a reference field  to produce an enhanced time series more suitable for detection and digitization by currently available high performance devices, and that signal is communicated to recovery processor .","In step , the detected time series received in step  is corrected based on the correction factor determined in step  to produce an output time series that maps in time the spectral content (e.g., amplitude and\/or phase as a function of frequency) of the target optical spectrum. The chirp rate is used to translate the temporal changes in the output time series to frequency changes. The start frequency is used to determine the absolute frequency scale associated with the start of the output time series and can be assumed zero to simplify the data process if absolute frequency scale is not desired.","In some embodiments, control passes back to step  to receive more detected signals. As long as the same chirped optical field (or grating) is used to probe the target optical spectrum, neither the correction factor nor its Fourier transform need be recalculated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["241","241","240","241","252","254","256"]},"In step , the Fourier transform is determined for the detected time series. Any method may be used. There are efficient fast Fourier transform (FFT) software programs and microprocessor chips, which may be used in any combination to perform step .","In step , at each frequency, the spectral component in the Fourier transform is multiplied by the correction factor for the corresponding frequency as determined in step  to produce a corrected transform. For example, the amplitude of the Fourier transform of the detected series for frequency \u03bd is multiplied by the value of C at frequency \u03bd, as given by Expression 9a, above, to produce the amplitude and phase of the corrected transform at that frequency.","In step , the inverse Fourier transform is performed to produce the output time series that maps the spectral content of the target optical spectrum. Any method may be used as described above for step . There are efficient fast Fourier transform (FFT) software programs and microprocessor chips, which may be used in any combination to perform step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"],"b":["201","201","200","241","201","201","210","223","230","243","210","230","200"]},"Step  is a particular embodiment of step , described above. Step  includes step . In step , the inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor is determined. Any method may be used to take the inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor, as described above for steps  and . There are efficient fast Fourier transform (FFT) software programs and microprocessor chips, which may be used in any combination to perform step . In some embodiments, the inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor is determined analytically. For the case of a LFM probe, the analytical inverse Fourier transform of the correction factor results in a time series that describes the LFM with an chirp rate opposite to that of the probe.","Step  is a particular embodiment of step , described above. Step  includes step . In step  the corrected output time series that maps the spectral content is determined by convolving the transformed correction factor with the detected time series.","3. Example Embodiments","The invention is further described in the following simulated and experimental embodiments. These embodiments show example distorted detected time series detected at detector , and corrected output time series produced by recovery processor  that maps the spectral content of a known target optical spectrum. In practice, the target optical spectrum is not known a priori. These examples instill confidence that the recovery process generates output time series that very accurately map, and therefore recover, the spectral content of the target optical spectrum.","The computer based simulations of the spectrum recovery in this section were performed under the assumption of ideal probe field and detector, unless otherwise indicated.","3.1 Simulated Data and Detected Signals","Computer based simulations of signal spectrum recovery presented in this section were performed under the assumption of ideal probe field and detector.  is a graph  that shows spectral peaks in four simulated target optical spectra, vertically offset. The horizontal axis  represents frequency in MegaHertz (MHz, 1 MHz=10Hz, 1 Hz=1 cycle per second) relative to an optical carrier frequency, increasing to the right. The vertical axis  represents absorption coefficient in arbitrary units. Plotted on graph  are traces (collectively referenced hereinafter as traces ) representing target optical spectra stored as optical absorption variations in an optical material (e.g., ), each with a single absorption spike at the carrier frequency but with increasing spectral width \u0393. Each trace is offset vertically from the other traces to avoid obscuring details. The spectral widths are 0.1 MHz, 0.3 MHz, 1.0 MHz and 3.0 MHz for traces respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["320","322","324","320","326","326","326","326","326","316","316","316","316","230","316","316","316"],"sup":["\u22126 ","2","2 ","2 "],"i":["a, ","b, ","c, ","d ","a, ","b, ","c, ","d, ","c","b, ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["330","332","322","334","330","336","336","336","336","336","326","326","326","326","336","220","326","240","241","326","252","254","256","336"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c, ","d ","a, ","b, ","c, ","d, "]},"When the chirp rate is fast, \u03ba>\u0393, the detected signals (traces ) are severely distorted. The recovered spectra (traces ) show the restoration of the original spectral shape in the target optical spectra (traces ). When the chirp rate is at the slow chirp limit, \u03ba=\u0393(trace ), the distortions of the detected signal are still significant. Even when the chirp rate is much slower than the slow chirp limit, \u03ba<<\u0393(traces ), when the direct mapping condition of conventional absorption spectroscopy is being met, there are still slight distortions in the detected signal. In all cases, the recovery procedure produces accurate mappings and therefore recovery of the target optical spectra.","The recovery procedure even works when distortions overlap in time and do not appear as the distinctive ringing of isolated peaks. This effect is described with reference to  through . , ,  are graphs that show spectral peaks in three simulated target optical spectra. The horizontal axes represent frequency in MHz relative to an optical carrier frequency, increasing to the right. The vertical axes represent the spectral feature depth in arbitrary units, increasing upward. Plotted on graphs are traces (collectively referenced hereinafter as traces ), respectively, representing target optical spectra stored as optical absorption variations in an optical material (e.g., ). Each trace has one or more absorption peaks with a width \u0393=0.1 MHz (like the peak in trace that produced substantial distortion); thus \u0393=0.01 MHz. Trace includes three such peaks spaced 3 MHz apart; and trace includes three such peaks spaced 0.5 MHz apart.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4E","FIG. 4F","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"],"b":["420","420","420","422","422","422","424","424","424","420","420","420","426","426","426","426","426","416","416","416","426","426","426"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, ","a, ","b ","c "],"sup":["2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 4G","FIG. 4H","FIG. 4I","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"],"b":["430","430","430","432","432","432","434","434","434","430","436","436","436","436","426","426","426"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, "]},"The recovered spectra in traces  faithfully reproduce the shape of the target optical spectra in traces ; and thus demonstrate the effectiveness of the recovery technique even with overlapping distortions from different spectral features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","512","514","510","516","516","516"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c, "]},"Trace represents a complex target optical spectrum stored as optical absorption variations in an optical material (e.g., ). The spectral features are stored into material which corresponds to the power spectral of a pseudo-random bi-phase pattern at 10 megabits per second and pattern duration, \u03c4=10 \u03bcs. Therefore, the finest feature, \u0393=0.1 MHz, in trace is determined by the pattern duration.","Trace represents the detected signal when probed with a chirped laser field. The probing chirped laser has a bandwidth B=10.4 MHz and chirp duration \u03c4c=104 \u03bcs. The chirp duration \u03c4c includes rising and falling edges of 2 \u03bcs each and corresponding frequency scanning of 0.2 MHz each. The chirp rate, \u03ba=0.1 MHz\/\u03bcs, is ten times faster than the slow chirp limit \u0393=0.01 MHz. This causes significant deviation of the detected signal in trace from the target optical spectrum in trace The bandwidth B does not encompass the entire spectrum of the target optical spectrum represented by trace so the detected signal is correspondingly limited in bandwidth.","It is here noted that in realistic detected signals as shown in trace the resonant ringing associated with quadratic phase is not evident. Therefore, it is not evident that correction factors based on the quadratic phase of the chirped laser field is effective in recovering the target optical spectrum.","Trace represents the recovered spectrum obtained by applying method  with step . The recovered spectrum, trace shows an accurate match of the spectral features in the target optical spectrum, trace over the probed bandwidth. Only at the ends of the spectrum are there remaining distortions. To avoid such edge effects, it is recommended that extra bandwidth of about \u03ba\/\u0393 be added to the chirped laser field around the bandwidth of interest.","3.2 Experimental Data and Detected Signals","An embodiment of the spectral recovery technique has been experimentally demonstrated using a spectral hole burning crystal, Tm: YAG, at 4.2K, as the optical material . The optical length is around \u03b1L=1. A frequency stabilized diode laser (line width less than 100 kHz) tuned to the absorption resonance of Tm at 793.380 nanometers (nm, 1 nm=10meters) is used as laser source . A radio frequency (RF) signal from an arbitrary waveform generator (AWG) was used as input signal source , and was modulated onto the optical carrier by an AOM in place of EOPMs . The crystal (optical material ) was illuminated with the modulated light for 100 \u03bcs. Spectral holes due to driving the AOM with RF frequencies of 262, 263, 264, and 270 MHz were engraved in the crystal. The hole widths, estimated at 0.2 MHz, result from the recording time, laser line width, and the coherence decay time (about 20 \u03bcs). Two digital chirps of bandwidth B=20 MHz were generated with an AOM substituted for EOPM  and driven by the AWG . The chirp durations, \u03c4c, were 100 \u03bcs (\u03ba=0.2 MHz\/\u03bcs) and 20 \u03bcs (\u03ba=1.0 MHz\/\u03bcs). These chirp rates are 5 times and 25 times, respectively, faster than the conventional chirp rate limit given by \u0393=0.04 MHz. The chirped laser fields are directed onto crystal  on the same spatial mode for automatic heterodyne detection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["620","622","624","620","626","106"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a ","a, "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"],"b":["630","622","620","634","620","630","636","636","106"],"i":["a ","a ","a. ","a ","a. ","a ","a, ","a, "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIG. 6C","b":["620","622","624","620","620","632","626","106"],"i":["b ","b ","a ","a. ","b ","b, ","a, "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 6C"],"b":["630","622","620","634","630","630","636","636","106"],"i":["b ","b ","b. ","a ","a. ","b ","b, ","b, "]},"In the detected signal, trace with \u03ba=0.2 MHz\/\u03bcs, the frequencies of primary spectral features can be resolved, but the shapes are distorted. The detected signal, trace with \u03ba=1.0 MHz\/\u03bcs has significant distortions due to the interference between the temporally overlapping coherent responses. The frequencies of the spectral features in the target optical spectrum can not be resolved. The lower traces show the recovered spectra that are almost identical for these two chirp rates and clearly show the four distinct peaks in the target optical spectrum at 262, 263, 264 and 270 MHz. The small difference is due to laser phase and amplitude fluctuations in the burning and readout processes. It is noted that the recovered spectrum for the higher chirp rate, trace has less noise. This observation in discussed in more detail in the next section. The experiment indicates that this embodiment of the technique works well to correct actual distortions observed in optical analog processing.","3.3 Effects of Noise","The spectrum recovery technique is tested through simulation in the presence of laser source noise. The linear frequency chirped laser in all these embodiments had limited coherence time, 50 \u03bcs in the simulation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["710","712","714","710","716","716","716","716","106","710","726","726","726","726","726","726","726","726","726","726","716","710","728","728","728","726","726","726","712","726","726","726"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, ","a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, ","a, ","b, ","c, "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"],"b":["730","732","734","730","736","736","736","736","726","726","726","736","716"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, "]},"The corresponding recovered spectra  demonstrate the effectiveness of the spectrum recovery technique in the presence of phase noise on the optical probe field. In each case, the target optical spectrum is recovered, but the corrected signal shows decreasing noise with increasing chirp rate. For example, trace shows less noise than trace which shows less noise than trace The fastest chirp, producing detected signal trace and corrected trace requires a shorter time (a few \u03bcs) to obtain the most significant information regarding the target optical spectrum, and thus benefits most from the laser coherence time, 50 \u03bcs. Therefore, the spectrum recovery may reduce the requirements on the frequency stability for the frequency chirped laser source, e.g., laser .","3.4 Effects of Spectral Feature Width and Separation","When mapping an unknown spectrum with a chirped optical field of chirp rate \u03ba, the impulse response of the features within certain frequency ranges interfere with each other. The spectrum recovery technique is able to correct the crosstalk between the neighboring spectral features, as demonstrated above with reference to . In this section it is shown that the spectrum recovery technique is able to correct the crosstalk between a narrow feature near a relatively broad feature with reference to ,  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 8A","b":["810","812","814","810","816","816","816","816","106","816","816","816"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","b ","c "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8A"],"b":["820","822","824","820","826","826","826","826","816","816","816","826","826","826","826"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, ","b, ","c. ","b, ","b. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 8C","FIG. 8A"],"b":["830","832","822","824","820","830","836","836","836","836","826","826","826"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, "]},"The traces closely resemble the shape of the target optical spectrum depicted by traces respectively. Thus, the recovered spectra demonstrate that the recovery technique enables accurate mapping of arbitrary spectral features of arbitrary resolution. Prior knowledge about the width of the features, even the width of the smallest features, is not needed to set the chirp rate \u03ba.","The recovery technique removes the distortions, but the spectral resolution is still limited by the bandwidth of the detector .  is a graph  that shows spectral peaks of various width in three simulated target optical spectra, vertically offset. These simulated target optical spectra are the same as in graph , described above. The horizontal axis  represents frequency in MHz relative to an optical carrier frequency, increasing to the right. The vertical axis  represents absorption coefficient in arbitrary units. Plotted on graph  are traces (collectively, referenced hereinafter as traces ) that are identical to trace respectively, described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["920","922","924","920","926","926","926","926","826","826","926","826"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","b, ","c. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"figref":["FIG. 9C","FIG. 9A"],"b":["932","922","924","920","930","936","936","936","936","926","926","926"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c ","a, ","b, ","c, "]},"The distortions are reduced in traces , but the narrow peak is not resolved. Therefore, the recovery technique can be applied and will reduce, but not eliminate, distortions even for features that are not fully resolved by a detector. However, the technique does not recover features that are not resolved by the detector.","4. Example Applications","In various embodiments, the method  is applied in many applications and technical fields.","4.1 Heterodyne Detection Embodiments","The experimental and simulated detections described above were in collinear embodiments. In some other embodiments, the method is applied to other heterodyne geometries.","In the chirped readout of spectral absorptive or dispersive features without spatial structures, the transmitted field and impulse response (photon echoes) are inherently aligned, which is called collinear geometry. Heterodyne detection is automatically achieved because, for example, a non-delayed transmitted version of the probe field serves as the reference field. When the interaction of the chirped field is with a spatial-spectral grating, the optical response field propagates, in general, in a different direction from the optical transmitted field. In this case, the optical response field is preferably mixed with either the optical transmitted field or with the input chirp optical field to achieve heterodyne detection. This separation of the response field from the reference field can happen when measuring spectral features in diffraction, scattering, and reflection. In such cases, the reference field beats with the response field to achieve heterodyne detection. In various embodiments the reference field is an exact or attenuated or delayed replica of the chirped optical field, or is a separately generated chirped optical field. The phase correction is determined once for each probe field and applied to each heterodyne detection that uses the same probing chirped optical field.","4.2 Detector Arrays","Arrays of detectors can simultaneously measure responses on multiple spatial modes. In various embodiments, the correction step is applied separately on each spatial mode.","Spatial imaging of an object is usually performed in two ways. One is to use an optical system to image the object onto a 2D detector array. Examples of such systems include microscopes, cameras, and telescopes, where the spatial information is processed in parallel. Another way is to spatially scan the illuminating light source on the object with a single detector or linear array of detectors, as done in scanners. The detected signals are collected in series, then the spatial image of the object is reconstructed with the recorded information.","The spectrum of a spatial object is of great interest in many systems, ranging from remote stars to soft tissues in animal organs. One intensively used technique is absorption imaging spectroscopy, where a tunable laser is used as the illuminating source and the absorption of the object is monitored to construe the image. The absorption image of the object is obtained as the function of the laser frequency that is swept in time. The spectrum recovery technique of the current invention applies to these types of applications. The frequency sweep rate is often fast compared to the spectral features. Without the spectral recovery techniques of the current invention, the slow limit set by the finest spectral feature applies. At least some embodiments of the present invention allows fast and accurate mapping of the spectral features during image construction, which is useful in spectral imaging of systems with ultra-fast dynamics, such as combustion flames and cold plasma in ion traps.","4.3 Spatial-Spectral Coherent Holographic Integrating Processor","A Spatial-Spectral Coherent Holographic Integrating Processor (S2CHIP) provides a technique for signal processing in optical domain (Merkel). In most applications, a chirped laser field is used for readout, processing, or both. The low latency and material memory time benefit from a fast chirp rate, \u03ba. Embodiments of the present invention can be used to remove the distortions due to the fast chirp rate. The applications of S2CHIP include, but are not limited to, radar delay and Doppler signal processing, radio frequency (RF) signal processing and spectral analysis, Lidar signal processing, optical correlator, and true time delay processing.","Chang I pointed out that the fast chirp can be used for probing a single spatial-spectral grating. However, during probing of multiple spatial-spectral gratings or any other spectral features, the embodiments of the present invention are useful to remove distortions.","4.4 Spectrum Analyzer","One application of the inhomogeneously broadened absorptive material is spectral analysis. A chirped laser field is used with heterodyne detection to alleviate the requirement for a large detector bandwidth with large signal to noise ratio.","Materials containing inhomogeneously broadened absorbing centers with narrow homogeneous line width are used to implement broadband RF spectrum analyzer of high resolution, low latency, and high dynamic range. Two recording and readout schemes involve linear frequency chirped optical fields. The spectrum recovery technique of the invention applies to both schemes to ensure accurate mapping of the RF spectrum.","Scheme 1: As shown in , an RF signal with the spectrum to be measured is the input signal source  and modulated on an optical carrier from input laser  using EOPM  to produce the optical field  which has the target optical spectrum. The target optical spectrum is recorded as the absorption spectrum of the optical material . The absorption of the material  is modified according the power spectrum of the target optical spectrum. The absorption spectrum is read out by a linear chirped laser field produced by modulating an optical carrier from readout laser  in EOPM  driven by AWG . This arrangement is described in more detail in R. K. Mohan, Z. Cole, R. Reibel, T. Chang, K. D. Merkel, W. M. Babbitt, M. Colic, F. Schlottau, and K. H. Wagner, \u201cMicrowave Spectral Analysis Using Optical Spectral Holeburning\u201d, Technical Digest, 2004 IEEE Topical Meeting on Microwave Photonics, MWP 04, 24-27, 2004 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. The response signal  is the convolution of the chirped laser field and the target optical spectrum in material , as given by Expression 7b. Applying the spectrum recovery procedure described in  ensures the accurate measurement of the spectral features on the absorption profile, and hence, the RF spectrum of the data.","Scheme 2: Some embodiments of this invention also make possible another spectral analysis scheme using spectral hole burning in a novel manner. In this new technique, chirped gratings are prepared in the material and an optical field with the target optical spectrum is diffracted by the grating. Thus one or more chirped laser fields  are first burned in optical material  to form chirp gratings, and an optical field  with the target optical spectrum is later directed onto the chirped gratings to produce response signal .","Scheme 2 involves preparing a chirped spectral grating or chirped spatial grating. The preparation can be achieved by using two chirped fields with different chirp rates, or one chirp and one broadband brief pulse. For the various embodiments using two chirps, the two chirps are temporally overlapped or separated; the chirp rates are different and are opposite (e.g., one is an upward chirp and the other is a downward chirp). For wideband processing, the fast chirp rate is used since the material has limited coherence memory time. The created chirped spectral grating has a spacing varying linearly with the frequency. The chirp rate of the chirped spectral grating \u03bag is defined such that the diffraction of a brief pulse by this grating is an optical chirp with that chirp rate \u03bag. With this definition, the chirp rate of a chirped grating is given by Expression 12a",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03ba","g"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\/","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"2"}},{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"-"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"12","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 "]},"Impinging on the optical material , an optical field with a target optical spectrum E(t) is diffracted by the chirped spectral grating. A frequency chirped pulse or a reference chirp with proper chirp rate is use to heterodyne with the diffracted field. It is convenient to use a reference field  with the same chirp rate as the chirped grating. In this case the direct output signal measured by the detector  is similar to Expression 7b,\n\n|()|=(\u03b7)(\u03c4)cos(2\u03c0\u03ba+\u03c6+\u03c6)\u2003\u2003(12b)\n\nwhere A\u2032 is a constant related to the reference and impulse response amplitude and \u03c6 is a constant phase due to the chirped grating and the reference. In this processing, the direct readout experiences the same distortion represented by \u03c6as in scheme 1. The same recovery procedure described in  is used to remove the extra phase terms \u03c6and \u03c6. From the processed result, the target optical spectrum of the incident field E(t) can be obtained.\n","The chirped heterodyne reference field  can be a delayed portion of the programming chirp field  by passing a beam through the material  or through the spatial region in the material  that is not affected by the programming pulses. Another way to generate the heterodyne chirped reference  in some embodiments is to add a broadband brief pulse to the optical field  so that the brief pulse is diffracted by the chirped grating into a linear frequency chirp of the same characteristic equivalent to a delayed programming chirp.","An angled beam geometry is also used in some embodiments to improve the performance, where the input optical field with the target optical spectrum and the output signal are spatially separated.","4.6 Other Optical Coherent Processors","A frequency chirped field in optical coherent transient and spectral hole burning processes causes a quadratic phase and distorts the output. In some applications, one or more chirped optical fields are employed in the processing. The quadratic phase may not be completely removed due to a chirp rate mismatch or other processing requirements. In some embodiments of the present invention, one or more steps of method  are used to remove the residual quadratic phase and the resulting distortion.","4.6 Multiple Chirp Readout","In some embodiments, two or more chirped optical fields are used for readout over multiple frequency bandwidths. If the chirps are in different directions, the resulting detected signals are detected on one or more detectors. For chirps that are overlapped in space, the resulting detected signals are received using the same detector. In various embodiments, the probing chirps are overlapped or separated in either frequency or time, or both. In various embodiments, the chirped optical fields are set to have the same or different durations. In various embodiments, the chirp rates are set to the same absolute value with the same or opposite sign. A common correction factor for removing the distortion due to the quadratic phase is determined by the absolute value of the chirp rate. The corrected signal is the sum of the individual corrected signals over the corresponding frequency range and in the corresponding chirp time.","5. Computational Hardware Overview","The data processing can be implemented in one or more computers, micro-processors, or similar devices that can implement Fourier transform or convolution, such as a field-programmable gate array (FPGA). The data processing can be performed with a program in any computer language or micro-processor language, or with any combination of hardware and software.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0157"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1010","1000","1010","1010","1002","1010","1002","1010","1010","1002"]},"Computer system  also includes a memory  coupled to bus . The memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory  is also used by the processor  to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system  also includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information, including instructions, that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus  is a non-volatile (persistent) storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, for storing information, including instructions, that persists even when the computer system  is turned off or otherwise loses power.","Information, including instructions, is provided to the bus  for use by the processor from an external input device , such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user, or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus , used primarily for interacting with humans, include a display device , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD), for presenting images, and a pointing device , such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys, for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display  and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .","In the illustrated embodiment, special purpose hardware, such as an application specific integrated circuit (IC) , is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor  quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display , cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network, speech recognition, and interfaces to special external devices, such as laser modulation control devices, signal triggering devices, robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware, field programmable gate array (FPGA) for performing application specific tasks, and analog to digital conversion for signal input.","Computer system  also includes one or more instances of a communications interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors, such as printers, scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link  that is connected to a local network  to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example, communication interface  may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus (USB) port on a personal computer. In some embodiments, communications interface  is an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments, a communication interface  is a cable modem that converts signals on bus  into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example, communications interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links, the communications interface  sends and receives electrical, acoustic or electromagnetic signals, including infrared and optical signals, that carry information streams, such as digital data. Such signals are examples of carrier waves.","The term computer-readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media include, for example, dynamic memory . Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. Signals that are transmitted over transmission media are herein called carrier waves.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a compact disk ROM (CD-ROM), a digital video disk (DVD) or any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, or any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), a FLASH-EPROM, or any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Network link  typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to equipment  operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). ISP equipment  in turn provides data communication services through the public, world-wide packet-switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server  connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example, server  provides information representing video data for presentation at display .","The invention is related to the use of computer system  for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention, those techniques are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions, also called software and program code, may be read into memory  from another computer-readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory  causes processor  to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hardware, such as application specific integrated circuit , may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","The signals transmitted over network link  and other networks through communications interface , which carry information to and from computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves. Computer system  can send and receive information, including program code, through the networks ,  among others, through network link  and communications interface . In an example using the Internet , a server  transmits program code for a particular application, requested by a message sent from computer , through Internet , ISP equipment , local network  and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, or may be stored in storage device  or other non-volatile storage for later execution, or both. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application program code in the form of a carrier wave.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor  for execution. For example, instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system  receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra-red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to an infra-red signal, a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface  receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus  carries the information to memory  from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory  may optionally be stored on storage device , either before or after execution by the processor .","6. Extensions and Modifications","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4E","FIG. 4F","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4G","FIG. 4H","FIG. 4I","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 6C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 8C","FIG. 8A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 9C","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
