---
title: System and method for multimedia delivery in a wireless environment
abstract: A multimedia processing system and method thereof are provided. The system and method provide for synchronizing a first clock of a multimedia decoder of a first multimedia processing device to a second clock of a multimedia encoder of a second multimedia processing device, synchronizing a first timing reference of the multimedia decoder to a second timing reference of the multimedia encoder, receiving, at a network interface of the first multimedia processing device, an encoded multimedia data stream from a network interface of the second multimedia processing device, wherein the encoded multimedia data stream is encoded by the multimedia encoder based on the second clock and the second timing reference, and decoding the encoded multimedia data stream at the multimedia decoder based on the first clock and the first timing reference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07421048&OS=07421048&RS=07421048
owner: ViXS Systems, Inc.
number: 07421048
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20050120
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE"],"p":["Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/823,646 , filed Mar. 20, 2001, entitled \u201cADAPTIVE BANDWIDTH FOOTPRINT MATCHING FOR MULTIPLE COMPRESSED VIDEO STREAMS IN A FIXED BANDWIDTH NETWORK,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/864,524, filed May 24, 2001, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/864,602 , filed May 24, 2001, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS OF MULTIPLEXING A PLURALITY OF CHANNELS IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/864,476 , filed May 24, 2001, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING RESOURCES IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/990,976 , filed Nov. 21, 2001, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MULTIPLE CHANNEL VIDEO TRANSCODING,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 09\/990,737 filed Nov. 21, 2001, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR RATE CONTROL DURING VIDEO TRANSCODING,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/137,151 , filed May 2, 2002, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROTECTING VIDEO DATA,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/174,371, filed Jun. 18, 2002, entitled \u201cDYNAMICALLY ADJUSTING DATA RATE OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/376,581 , filed Feb. 28, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARTUS FOR NON-INTRUSIVE TRANSCEIVER PROPERTY ADJUSTMENT,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/376,853 , filed Feb. 28, 2003, entitled \u201cSYSTEM FOR PROVIDING DATA TO MULTIPLE DEVICES AND METHOD THEREOF,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/345,710 , filed Jan. 16, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD OF MOTION VECTOR PREDICTION AND SYSTEM THEREOF,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/345,847, filed Jan. 16, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD OF VIDEO ENCODING USING WINDOWS AND SYSTEM THEREOF,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/375,582 , filed Feb. 24, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR TRANSCODING VIDEO DATA,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/461,095 filed Jun. 13, 2003, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROCESSING AUDIO FRAMES,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/683,062 , filed Oct. 10, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ACCURATELY DETECTING VALIDITY OF A RECEIVED SIGNAL,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/673,693 , filed Sep. 29, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SCALING IMAGES,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Related subject matter is found in a co-pending U.S. patent application, having application No. 10\/673,612 filed Sep. 29, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR NOISE REDUCTION IN AN IMAGE,\u201d which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The present disclosure relates generally to multimedia data delivery and more particularly to multimedia delivery in wireless systems.","In order to achieve reliable broadcast-quality motion picture experts group (MPEG) audio\/video (A\/V) distribution in an MPEG A\/V delivery system, the audio and video received and encoded at an MPEG server typically must be played back at an MPEG client at substantially the same rate at which the MPEG data was received at the server. This matching rate significantly contributes to the reliable delivery of A\/V data as it allows the decoder at the MPEG client to consume A\/V data at the rate at which it was generated, thereby reducing or avoiding buffer underflow or overflow and thus reducing or eliminating artifacts in the displayed video and audio. In view of the benefits of the matching rate requirement, the MPEG standards, e.g., ISO\/IEC 13818, typically institute a quality requirement that the jitter between the server and the client remain within +\/\u2212500 nanoseconds (ns). Accordingly, the MPEG standards implement elaborate mechanisms in an effort to fulfill this jitter requirement in standard broadcast systems. These mechanisms typically are satisfactory in satellite, cable or terrestrial delivery systems due to the near constant delay between the server and the client. However, in wireless networks and other similar networks, these mechanisms often fail because the wireless links typically do not exhibit a substantially constant delay between wireless devices. To illustrate, in IEEE 802.11 applications, the frequency, and thus the symbol rate, used to transmit information is dependent on the distance between the transmitter and the receiver. Accordingly, as the distance between the server and client varies, so does the jitter in the transmission of MPEG data between the server and client. Similarly, obstructions between the server and the client may cause dynamic changes in the symbol rate, thereby resulting in dynamic changes in the transmission time and therefore the jitter of MPEG data.","The magnitude of jitter also may increase as a result of the implementation of MPEG delivery systems within a network, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (WAN), the Internet and the like. In these instances, the transmission of MPEG data from a server to a client typically would require the processing of the MPEG data at various layers of the network stack (e.g., the telecommunications protocol\/internet protocol (TCP\/IP) stack) at the server, the transmission of the processed MPEG data via a wireless medium, and then the subsequent processing of the MPEG data at various layers of the network stack at the client. Considerable additional jitter maybe introduced due to variances in the software and hardware implementing these network stacks. The overall jitter resulting from these variances may be of such magnitude so as to prevent the client from synchronizing to the server. Accordingly, improved techniques for synchronizing devices in wireless environments so as to reduce jitter would be advantageous.","The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the present disclosure by providing a number of specific embodiments and details involving synchronized multimedia data delivery. It is understood, however, that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details, which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art, in light of known systems and methods, would appreciate the use of the disclosure for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments, depending upon specific design and other needs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-11"},"Referring now to , an exemplary MPEG delivery system  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the depicted example, the delivery system  comprises an MPEG server  coupled to an MPEG client  via a wireless link . The MPEG server  comprises an audio\/video (A\/V) encoder , a radio frequency (RF) transceiver , a transmitter synchronization module , clock sources  and  and an antenna . The MPEG client  comprises an antenna , an RF transceiver , an input buffer , an A\/V decoder , a receiver synchronization module  and clock sources  and . The A\/V encoder  may comprise any of a variety of MPEG encoders or transcoders and the A\/V decoder  similarly may comprise any of a variety of MPEG decoders or transcoders. The RF transceivers  and  may include wireless transmitters compatible with one or more wireless protocols, such as, for example, IEEE 802.11 a\/b\/c\/e\/g\/i (collectively referred to herein as IEEE 802.11), and the like. The clock sources , ,  and  may comprise any of a variety of crystals or oscillators that may be used to generate a clock signal, including, but not limited to overtone crystal oscillators, fundamental crystal oscillators, canned oscillators, LC oscillators, ceramic resonators, VCXO oscillators, and the like.","At the MPEG server , the A\/V encoder  receives input A\/V data  and provides as an output an encoded or transcoded representation of the input A\/V data . The RF transceiver  packetizes the encoded\/transcoded A\/V data and provides it for transmission over the wireless link  via the antenna . The A\/V data  may represent, for example, MPEG audio and\/or video data provided by a satellite feed, a cable head end, an Internet data stream, a DVD player and the like. At the MPEG client , the packetized A\/V data is received by the RF transceiver  via the antenna . The A\/V data is depacketized and provided to the input buffer  for storage. The A\/V data is provided from the input buffer  to the A\/V decoder  for decoding or transcoding and the resulting decoded\/transcoded A\/V data  may be provided for display on one or more display devices, stored on a hard disk or optical drive, retransmitted to another device for further processing, and the like.","As illustrated, the A\/V encoder  is clocked by clock signal  (having frequency \u0192) provided by clock source  and the transceiver  is clocked by clock signal  (having frequency \u0192) provided by clock source . At the MPEG client , the A\/V decoder  is clocked by clock signal  derived from a clock signal  (having frequency \u0192) provided by the clock source  and the transceiver  is clocked by clock signal  (having frequency \u0192) provided by the clock source . For ease of discussion, the frequencies \u0192and \u0192are assumed to be approximately 27 megahertz (MHz) in accordance with the MPEG standards and the frequencies \u0192and \u0192are assumed to be approximately 40 MHz. However, clock signals having other frequencies may be used, as appropriate, without departing from the spirit or the scope of the present disclosure.","Ideally, the clock sources  and  are perfectly synchronized and the clock sources  and  are perfectly synchronized, thereby reducing or eliminating jitter between the encoding of the A\/V data  at the MPEG server  and the subsequent decoding of the A\/V data  at the MPEG client . However, process variations, changes in temperature, voltage, and manufacturing defects, typically result in the production of clock sources that do not maintain an exactly constant frequency. This frequency drift typically is not mirrored between the clock sources of the MPEG server  and the MPEG client , and therefore potentially results in unacceptable jitter in the absence of a technique for adjusting the clock sources of the MPEG client  to more closely match the clock sources of the MPEG server . Accordingly, in at least one embodiment, the MPEG distribution system  employs a synchronization technique based on the frequency offsets between multiple clocks.","In at least one embodiment, the transceiver synchronization module  receives as inputs the clock signals  and , and from these clock signals determines a clock offset value (herein referred to \u0394ppm) between the clock signals  and . The clock offset value \u0394ppmpreferably is represented as parts-per-million (ppm), but in other instances may be represented as a frequency value or clock tick value. An exemplary technique for determining the clock offset value \u0394ppmis discussed below with reference to . In at least one embodiment, the clock offset value \u0394ppmis representative of the variance between the clock signals  and , i.e., whether the clock source  is slower or faster relative to the clock source .","The synchronization module  then provides the clock offset value \u0394ppmto the RF transceiver  for transmission to the MPEG client . In at least one embodiment, RF transceiver  packetizes the clock offset value \u0394ppmby embedding it within a maintenance message between the MPEG server  and the MPEG client . To illustrate,  depicts an exemplary maintenance message packet  having in its payload  an absolute server time field  for providing an indication of the time at the MPEG server  and a ppmoffset field  for providing an indication of the value of \u0394ppm. At the MPEG client , the RF transceiver  receives the packetized clock offset value \u0394ppm, depacketizes the clock offset value \u0394ppmand provides it to the receiver synchronization module . In addition, the RF transceiver  or the synchronization module  determines a second clock offset (herein referred to as \u0394ppm) between the clock signals  and . As with the clock offset \u0394ppm, the clock offset \u0394ppmpreferably is represented as ppm, but also may be represented by, for example, a frequency value or a clock tick value. The RF transceiver  then provides the clock offset value \u0394ppmto the synchronization module . In at least one embodiment, the synchronization module  utilizes the clock offset values \u0394ppmand \u0394ppmto adjust the clock signal  provided to the A\/V decoder  to adjust for the jitter present between the clock sources  and  and the clock sources  and , as discussed in greater detail below.","It will be appreciated that the use of the clock offset values \u0394ppmand \u0394ppmmay result in substantial frequency drift over time as there is no feedback loop between the clocks ,  and the clocks  and . Accordingly, in at least one embodiment, the synchronization module  monitors the fullness of the input buffer  to gauge the effective synchronization of the clocks ,  to the clocks , . Generally, when the clock signal of an MPEG decoder is adequately synchronized to the clock signal of an MPEG encoder, the buffer supplying MPEG data to the decoder typically remains within a certain buffer fullness because the data typically is output from the buffer at the same rate it is input due to the adequate clock synchronization. However, when the clock signals are not adequately synchronized, buffer overflow or underflow may result. Accordingly, when the synchronization module  detects that the input buffer  may be heading toward a buffer underflow or overflow condition, the synchronization module  may implement a clock correction procedure as described in detail below.","Referring to , an exemplary operation of the MPEG delivery system  of  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The method  representing the exemplary operation initiates at step , wherein the clock  of the MPEG client  is synchronized to the clock  of the MPEG server  using any of a variety of techniques known to those skilled in the art. At step , the decoder  timing reference (e.g., derived from clock ) of the MPEG client  is synchronized to the encoder  timing reference (e.g., clock ) of the MPEG server . Exemplary techniques for achieving this synchronization are described in greater detail below with reference to . After the clocks of the MPEG server  and the MPEG client  are synchronized, MPEG data streams may be encoded at the MPEG server  and transmitted via the wireless network , for example, to the MPEG client  for subsequent decoding and display. In at least one embodiment, the timing reference values embedded in the MPEG data stream (e.g., program clock references (PCRs) or system clock references (SCRs)) may be converted from absolute values (i.e., values that refer directly to a fixed timing) to relative values (i.e., timing values that are relative to a particular timing point). Thus, an absolute time reference may be viewed as a measurement of a single clock at a particular time, while a relative time reference may be viewed as a calculation of the difference between two clocks measured simultaneously. As described in greater detail below with reference to , this conversion may be implemented by subtracting the local clock reference of the MPEG server  from the absolute timing values in the MPEG data stream at the MPEG server  prior to providing the MPEG data stream to the MPEG client .","At step , the MPEG data stream is packetized and provided to the MPEG client  via the wireless network . At step , the relative timing reference values in the MPEG data stream are converted back to absolute timing reference values. As described below with reference to , the MPEG client  may convert the relative timing reference values back to absolute timing values by adding the client's local clock reference at the MPEG client  to the relative timing reference values. The MPEG data stream then may be buffered in the input buffer  and then provided to the A\/V decoder  at the appropriate time for decoding and display.","Referring now to , an overview of an exemplary method for synchronizing the timing reference used by the A\/V decoder  of the MPEG client  to the timing reference used by the A\/V encoder  of the MPEG server  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated method  initiates at step  wherein a first offset between the clock  and the clock  is determined. As described in detail with reference to , this first offset may be derived from a ratio of the number of clock ticks or cycles of the clock  to the number of clock ticks or cycles of the clock  over a predetermined period. The first offset therefore may represent a relative synchronization between the clocks  and .","At step , a representation of the first offset is provided to the MPEG client . To illustrate, the first offset representation may be packetized and transmitted as one or more packets via the wireless transceivers  and . At step , a second offset between the clock  of the MPEG server  and the clock  of the MPEG client  is determined. The second offset may be determined using any of a variety of techniques known to those skilled in the art, such as, for example, by using time domain correlation on a short synch training period to determine rough time and frequency alignment and then using time domain correlation in conjunction with frequency domain analysis to determine fine timing and frequency alignment. Time domain correlation and phase information from the OFDM pilot signal and OFDM constellation then may be used to drive an increasingly finer frequency offset between the transceivers  and . The second offset therefore may represent a relative synchronization between the clocks  and .","As noted above, the first offset represents the relative synchronization between the clocks  and  and the second offset may represent the relative synchronization between the clocks  and . Accordingly, at step , the first and second offsets may used to adjust the timing reference of the A\/V decoder  (e.g., clock signal ) so as to synchronize it with the clock  of the MPEG server , as described in greater detail with reference to . Moreover, as noted below, the fullness of the input buffer  may be monitored and used to detect an error which may be used to further adjust the clock signal . In this instance, a trend toward a potential buffer underflow or overflow may be used to detect whether or not the clock synchronizations is operating properly and the client clock can be artificially slowed down or sped up to compensate for the error and thus avoid the underflow and overflow. Moreover, the MPEG client  may implement a crash lock mechanism whereby the MPEG client, after first connecting to the MPEG server , may utilize the absolute server time and the \u0394ppmvalue in the first received heartbeat message  () to set it's local absolute time equal to the absolute time of the MPEG server  plus some additional predetermined time (e.g., 0.5 seconds) corresponding to the network's buffer size. The MPEG client further may use this crash lock technique after a channel change or if it is determined that the absolute time of the MPEG client  is too far out of synch with the absolute time of the MPEG server .","Referring now to , an exemplary implementation of the transmitter synchronization module  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the illustrated example, the synchronization module  comprises a scaling PLL , counters , , a latch , and a clock offset calculation module . The scaling PLL  receives as an input the clock signal  and outputs a clock signal  scaled by a predetermined scaling factor. In the illustrated example, the frequency \u0192of the clock signal  is approximately 40 MHz and the scaling factor of the scaling PLL  is four, resulting in the scaled clock signal  having a frequency of approximately 160 MHz. The clock signal  is used to increment the counter  and the clock signal  (having a frequency \u0192of approximately 27 MHz) is used to increment the counter . The counter  has a programmable maximum count register and when the counter  reaches this maximum count, a ripple carry output (RCO) is provided at the output of the counter . The RCO is input to the latch , causing the latch  to latch to the current count of the counter  and further causing the counters  and  to reset to zero. The current count of the counter  is provided to the clock offset calculation module  whereupon the clock offset value \u0394ppmis calculated.","It will be appreciated that the current count of the counter  is representative of the number of clock cycles of the clock signal  during a predetermined number of clock cycles of the clock signal  (which was scaled to improve its resolution). From the current count of the counter , the clock offset calculation  may determine the clock offset value \u0394ppmin accordance with the following equations:\n\n1=Bit_Count\/Freq*(Freq+Freq*ppm\/16)\u2003\u2003{EQ. 1}\n\n2=Bit_Count\/Freq*(Freq\u2212Freq*ppm\/16)\u2003\u2003{EQ. 2}\n\nGain=ppm\/(1\u22122)\u2003\u2003{EQ. 3}\n\n\u0394ppm=(Freq2)*Gain\u2212ppm\/2\u2003\u2003{EQ. 4}\n\nwhere Bit_Count represents the maximum unsigned number that may be represented by the number of bits in registers ,  and  (e.g., Bit_Count=2for a 30-bit register), Freqrepresents the frequency of clock signal  (e.g., 27 MHz), Freqrepresents the frequency of the scaled clock signal  (e.g., 160 MHz), ppmrepresents the maximum ppm offset of the clocks , ,  and  and ppmrepresents the minimum ppm offset of the clocks , ,  and , and ppmrepresents the spread between ppmand ppm. As an example, ppmtypically would be approximately 40 ppm, ppmmight be approximately \u221240 ppm, for a total ppmof approximately 80 ppm.\n","Referring now to , an exemplary implementation of the receiver synchronization module  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the illustrated example, the synchronization module  comprises a PHY processor , a MAC processor , a numerically controlled oscillator (NCO) , a PLL  a transport module  and buffer monitor .","Upon reception of a wireless signal, an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) demodulator  of the RF transceiver  demodulates the wireless signal and provides the resulting A\/V data to the MAC processor , which in turn buffers the A\/V data in the input buffer . As discussed in detail below, the MAC processor  (or, alternatively, the PHY processor ) may convert the timing reference values (e.g., PCRs or SCRs) embedded in the A\/V data from relative values back to absolute values. As noted above, the data also may include a representation of the clock offset value \u0394ppm, which the MAC processor  uses to control the NCO . The OFDM demodulator  further provides a phase offset or frequency offset to the PHY processor , where the phase\/frequency offset is determined from timing circuits of the OFDM demodulator  (such as detectors, synchronizers and PLLs) that continuously run to correctly recover the data. Typically, this phase\/frequency offset is averaged over a number of packets to obtain a frequency or phase offset accurate within fractions of a ppm. The PHY processor  determines the clock offset value \u0394ppmfrom this phase\/frequency offset and provides the clock offset value \u0394ppmto control the NCO . The buffer monitor , in one embodiment, monitors the fullness of the buffer  to determine whether the fullness of the buffer has fallen below a lower threshold or has risen above a higher threshold. Based on this comparison, the buffer monitor  provides an error e to the NCO .","The NCO  output frequency is adjusted based on the clock offset values \u0394ppmand \u0394ppmand the error e. It will be appreciated that the resulting signal  output by the NCO  will be \u201cdirty\u201d (i.e., having a periodic clock cycles) and therefore is smoothed by the PLL . The resulting clock signal  then may be provided to the transport module , which uses the clock signal  for timing the removal of A\/V data from the buffer . The clock signal  is also provided to the A\/V decoder  for use in timing the decoding and display of the A\/V data provided by the transport module .","Referring now to , an exemplary implementation of the NCO  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The NCO  comprises two summation modules , , an offset register , an ACC register  and a divider . In operation, the clock offset values \u0394ppmand \u0394ppmand the error e are summed by the summation module  and loaded into the offset register . Although not illustrated, the summation module  may comprise an additional input, e.g., a nominal ppm input, such that the summation module  outputs a nominal ppm value when the inputs for error e, \u0394ppmand \u0394ppmare zero so that the nominal frequency will be output. The contents of the offset register  are continually added to the ACC register  by the summation module , which in turn updates at a rate determined by a clock signal , which represents a scaled representation of the clock signal . At each occurrence of a RCO, the state of the divider  changes, thereby creating the clock signal , which has the desired ppm offset from the clock signal . The clock signal , being substantially synchronized to the clock signal  using the techniques described above, then may be provided to the A\/V decoder  for accurate timing of its decoding operations.","Referring now to , exemplary general methods  and  summarizing the above-described techniques are illustrated. Method  initiates at step  wherein the number of clock cycles of the clock signal  over a predetermined time period are measured. At step , the number of clock cycles of the clock signal  are measured over the same time period. At step , the clock offset value \u0394ppmis determined from a comparison of the clock cycles measured in steps  and , as discussed above with respect to . At step , the clock offset value \u0394ppmis provided from the MPEG server  to the MPEG client  via the wireless link  for use in adjusting one or more of the clock sources of the MPEG client .","Method  initiates at step  whereupon the MPEG client  receives the clock offset value \u0394ppm. At step , the clock offset value \u0394ppmis determined. Meanwhile, at step , the fullness of the buffer  is monitored by comparing the fullness with one or more low and high thresholds to detect a potential buffer underflow or overflow. Based on this comparison, an error value e is generated. At step , the clock signal  provided to the A\/V decoder  is adjusted based on the clock offset values \u0394ppm, \u0394ppmand the error value e so as to more closely synchronize the clock signal  to the clock signal .","Referring now to , an exemplary technique for converting the timing reference values (e.g., PCRs or SCRs) of an MPEG data stream from absolute values to relative values, and vice versa, is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. For ease of illustration, the technique is described in the context of PCRs in an MPEG transport stream (TS). However, using the guidelines provided herein, this technique may be utilized to convert SCRs in MPEG program streams (PS) without departing from the spirit or the scope of the present disclosure.","As illustrated, an MPEG transport stream  comprising a plurality of PCR values - (also referred to herein as PCR-PCR, respectively) is provided from the A\/V encoder  () to the transmitter synchronization module . A component of the synchronization module , converts the PCR values - from absolute timing reference values to relative PCR values -, respectively (also referred to herein as PCR\u2032- PCR\u2032). In at least one embodiment, the PCR values - are converted to relative PCR values - by subtracting the local timing reference, herein referred to as the real time protocol (RTP) clock of the MPEG server , which, in one embodiment comprises the counter incremented by the local clock . To illustrate, each PCR value - may be converted in accordance with the following equation:\n\n\u2003\u2003{EQ. 5}\n\nwhere RTPrepresents the value of the RTP counter incremented by local clock .\n","The resulting MPEG TS stream  then is packetized and transmitted between the RF transceiver  of the MPEG server  and the RF transceiver  of the MPEG client . At the MPEG client , the MPEG stream  is depacketized and a component of the receiver synchronization module  converts the relative PCR values - back to absolute PCR values - (also referred to herein as PCR\u2033-PCR\u2033). In one embodiment, the synchronization module  converts the PCR values back to absolute values by adding the client RTP counter value (incremented by the clock ) of the MPEG client  to generate the PCR values in accordance with the following equation:\n\n\u2003\u2003{EQ. 6}\n\nwhere RTPrepresents the value of the RTP by the local clock .\n","Note that when EQ. 6 is substituted into EQ. 7, the following equation results:\n\n\u2003\u2003{EQ. 7}\n\nThus, presuming that RTPand RTPare synchronized (i.e., RTP\u02dc=RTP), EQ. 8 simplifies to:\n\n\u2003\u2003{EQ. 8}\n","Thus, as EQ. 9 demonstrates, the conversion from absolute PCR values to relative PCR values at the MPEG server  and the subsequent conversion of the relative PCR values back to absolute PCR values recovers the original PCR values (assuming the server and client RTP counters are synchronization) while reducing or eliminating the effects of jitter and propagation delay between the MPEG server  and the MPEG client  on the PCR values in the resulting MPEG transport stream .","Referring now to , an exemplary packet retransmission method  is illustrated in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Many packet-switched network protocols provide for a packet retransmission technique wherein a receiving device may request the retransmission of a packet upon the determination that the packet was not received or was received in a corrupted form. However, these conventional retransmission techniques simply provide that the same exact packet be retransmitted. However, this may result in timing issues at the receive if the packet contains absolute timing reference values, such as the network heartbeat message  () as the subsequent retransmission of packets having the same absolute timing reference value may cause undesirable time shifts at the receiving device.","Accordingly, in one embodiment, the MPEG server  implements method  in order to adjust the value of absolute timing references in retransmitted packets so as to reduce the occurrence and magnitude of such timing issues. At step , a packet is transmitted from the MPEG server  to the MPEG client . At step , the MAC processor  () determines that the packet was not received or was corrupted. Accordingly, the MAC processor  provides a retransmit packet request to the MPEG server . A MAP processor at the MPEG server  determines whether the packet contains an absolute timing reference value. If so, the absolute timing reference value is adjusted based on the local clock at step  and the packet is retransmitted at step . If not, the packet is retransmitted without alteration at step .","Other embodiments, uses, and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered exemplary only, and the scope of the disclosure is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The purpose and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description in conjunction with the appended drawings in which like reference characters are used to indicate like elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
