---
title: Apparatus for spinning rocket motor tubes
abstract: An apparatus for spinning tubes includes a horizontal, adjustable bed, the bed including a bed housing and a slide movably disposed in the bed housing, a tailstock assembly fixed to a top of the slide, the tailstock assembly including a tailstock coupling, bearings for supporting the tailstock coupling and a locking clamp that moves the tailstock coupling and bearings relative to the slide, a drive coupling, a drive unit connected to the drive coupling, and a rocket motor tube disposed between the drive and tailstock couplings, the rocket motor tube including a mask, each mask including an angled surface thereon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07470328&OS=07470328&RS=07470328
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07470328
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050623
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereof.","The invention relates in general to devices for spinning hollow, cylindrical tubes and in particular to devices for spinning rocket motor tubes to distribute, evenly, viscous liner material deposited on the interior of the tube.","Rocket motor tubes are lined with a fire retardant liner to prevent the propellant from burning through the tube wall. The rocket tubes are, for example, about three feet long and two to three inches in diameter. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/927,647 filed on Aug. 25, 2004, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,163,584, entitled \u201cApparatus For Applying Liquid Liner To Rocket Tube,\u201d having the same inventor as the present application, discloses an apparatus for dispensing a continuous bead of liner into a rocket motor tube. The contents of the above noted previous application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.","After depositing the continuous bead of liner in the rocket tube, the liner must be spread around to cover the interior of the rocket tube. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/985,064 filed on Nov. 10, 2004, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,029,534, entitled \u201cApparatus for Spreading Liquid Liner in Rocket Tube,\u201d having the same inventor as the present application, discloses a brushing apparatus for spreading viscous liner over the interior of a rocket motor tube. The contents of the above noted previous application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.","After the brushing operation that spreads the liner, the present invention is used to spin the tubes to uniformly distribute the liner on the interior of the tube. The spinning operation uses centrifugal force to form a uniform layer of liner on the interior of the tube.","The invention includes an apparatus for spinning hollow, cylindrical tubes. The hollow cylindrical tubes may be, for example, rocket motor tubes. The interior of the rocket motor tubes are coated with a viscous liner material. Initially, the viscous liner material is not evenly distributed on the interior of the rocket motor tubes. The purpose of spinning the rocket motor tubes is to distribute, evenly, the viscous liner on the interior of the tubes by a centrifugal force of spinning.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 1","FIGS. 1"],"b":["2","12","13","10","10","2","12","13","10"]},"Spinner  is mounted on a table  or other stable and sturdy horizontal surface. Spinner  includes an adjustable bed , guard cover , manual locking clamps , tailstock bearings , tailstock coupling , drive coupling  and drive unit . Drive couplings  are only partially visible in  because of splatter shields  installed around drive couplings . In an exemplary embodiment, drive unit  is torque-controlled. Drive unit  comprises a torque-controlled electric motor  with associated control components. As an alternative to an electric motor, an air motor with regulator may be used for the drive unit .","Referring to , one or more drive coupling bearings  are mounted on the drive coupling support strut . Each drive coupling  is supported by a set of drive coupling bearings . Drive unit  comprises, among other components, a drive motor ; a drive pulley  connected to the drive motor ; drive pulley bearings  mounted on the drive unit strut ; and a belt  connecting the drive pulley  and the drive couplings . Where more than two drive couplings  are used, the belt  would connect couplings  and drive pulley  in a known serpentine manner.","Motor torque is controlled by, for example, computer software or one or more appropriate hard wired controller(s). Motor speed is controlled by the balance between motor output torque and bearing friction resistance torque. In the embodiment shown, the bearing friction is supplied by tailstock bearings , drive coupling bearings  and drive pulley bearings . The drive motor  rotational speed equals a tube  rotational speed. Motor speed is proportional to the amount of drag in the bearing drive system. The greater the bearing drag, the lower the steady state speed. The lower the bearing drag, the higher the steady state speed.","As the motor rpm increases, the bearing friction increases due to bearing grease shear and\/or tube  vibration, until bearing friction matches motor torque. When bearing friction equals motor torque, the rotational speed becomes approximately constant. Rotational speed should be, for example, in a range of about 3000 rpm to about 4000 rpm. If no tube  is mounted in the spinner, the motor may overspeed and automatically shut down by using the appropriate overspeed detection circuits. Motor overspeed occurs at, for example, about 5000 rpm. Spinning time is in general about ten seconds to about sixty seconds.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["46","48","22","24","40","40","44","44","40","44","40","10","44","40","40"]},"As shown in , tube  includes mask  at the tailstock end and mask  at the drive end. Each of masks ,  includes angled surfaces ,  and O-ring . O-rings  are situated substantially adjacent masks ,  of the tube . The O-rings perform several over functions in addition to being a structural interface between the masks ,  and the tube . O-rings , when installed under compression, prevent liner  from entering the areas of the tube  adjacent the masks ,  (masking function). O-rings  help center the tube  during the spinning operation and also transfer torque from the mask  at the drive end to the tube .","Tailstock coupling  includes a flanged portion  having interior angled surface . Drive coupling  includes a flanged portion  having interior angled surface . When tube  is in an operable position in spinner , angled surfaces ,  of masks ,  contact angled surfaces ,  of the tailstock coupling  and the drive coupling , respectively. During the spinning operation, tailstock coupling  is stationary with mask  and tube  rotating against angled surface  of tailstock coupling . Drive coupling  rotates angled surface . Angled surface  drives angled surface  of mask . O-ring  of mask  drives tube . Couplings ,  may be made of a metal, for example, stainless steel. Masks ,  may be made of a plastic such as ultra high molecular weight polyethylene.","The angle of angled surfaces ,  of the tailstock coupling and the drive coupling ,  and the angle of the angled surfaces ,  of the masks are substantially the same. For optimum operation, this angle alpha, as shown in , is in the range of about ten degrees to about forty-five degrees and, in particular, the angle alpha is about thirty degrees. Note that angle alpha corresponds to twice the angle between one of the angled surfaces , , ,  and the central horizontal axis of the tube . That is, the angle between the angled surfaces , , ,  and the central horizontal axis of the tube  is in the range of about five to about twenty-three degrees and, in particular, about fifteen degrees.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["42","62","64","24","22","62","64","66","68","151","151","24","72","22","70","68","64","72","24","66","62","70","22","22","24","58","60","70","72"]},"In another embodiment, the couplings may be constructed with only the small or only the large size of angled surfaces. Such an embodiment would not be as versatile as the couplings shown in . In general, different types of small class tubes may have some difference in diameter, but each small class tube will have individual masks with angled surfaces that will fit the angled surfaces , . Likewise, large class tubes may have differing diameters, but each large class tube will have individual masks with angled surfaces that will fit the angled surfaces , . In this manner, the use of standard size masks for each tube simplifies the connection to the couplings. In addition, the standard size masks cooperate with the apparatuses disclosed in copending application Ser. Nos. 10\/927,647 and 10\/985,064.","Each pair of drive and tailstock couplings ,  is provided with an adjustable bed . Thus, in the embodiment of the invention shown in , there are two adjustable beds  shown with a way cover in place to prevent liner contamination.  is a perspective view of an adjustable bed  with no way cover. Bed  includes a bed housing , a slide  axially movable along the bed housing , an externally threaded rod , a turning knob  attached to one end of rod  and a digital indicator  attached to the other end of rod . Bed housing  includes top surfaces  upon which slide  axially moves.  is a sectional view of a slide . Slide  includes an internally threaded bushing  that threadingly engages rod  and through which rod  passes. Bottom surfaces  of slide  slide on the top surfaces  of bed housing . Thus, by rotating turn knob , slide  may be positioned axially at any point along bed housing .","When loading a rocket motor tube into the spinner , the bed  is adjusted to a length of the rocket motor tube by rotating turn knob  until digital indicator  indicates a numeral corresponding to the length of the rocket motor tube. Because the tailstock assembly is fixed to the top of slide  (as discussed in more detail below), the tailstock coupling  will then be in the proper position for loading the tube. A locking cover  () may be used to lock the turning knob  in place to prevent any unwanted axial movement of the slide  during operation of the spinner .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["92","78","94","92","96","18","94","98","94","100","98","20","100","22","20"]},"As shown in more detail in , the locking clamp  is connected to the shuttle plate  by, for example, a threaded stud  that threads into opening  in shuttle plate  and threads into tapped hole  in locking clamp . Shuttle slide , shown in more detail in , allows locking clamp  to move the shuttle plate  relative to the locking clamp support plate .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 11"],"b":["98","100","18","98","108","94","110","108","108","110","110","108","110","100","18","100","20","22","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 13","FIGS. 12 and 13"],"b":["10","10","10","14","12","118","120","116","118","121","112","116","24","112"]},"Drive unit  comprises, among other components, a drive unit support plate  attached to the vertical struts ; a drive unit strut  attached to the drive unit support plate  (using brackets, for example) and disposed between vertical struts ; a drive motor  attached to the drive unit support plate ; a drive pulley  connected to the drive motor ; drive pulley bearings  mounted on the drive unit strut ; and a belt  connecting the drive pulley  and the drive couplings . Where more than two drive couplings  are used, the belt  would connect couplings  and drive pulley  in a known serpentine manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["118","118","132","132","132","134","136","128","134","128","118","136","128","136","138","128"]},"Drive unit support plate  () includes two threaded holes  () in a top edge . A tension plate  is fixed to a top of each vertical strut . Each tension plate  has an opening therein for receiving a threaded stud . Stud  passes through the opening in the tension plate  and threads into hole  in the top edge  of the drive unit support plate . Alternatively, stud  may be, for example, welded, bonded or machined as part of the drive unit support plate . A nut  () is disposed on a top of each tension plate . The nuts  engage the studs . By first loosening bolts  () that attach support plate  to struts , one may adjust the vertical position of the drive unit support plate  by simply rotating nuts . This action allows gravity to lower the drive unit support plate . Vertical adjustment of the drive unit support plate  adjusts the tension in belt .","While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof.","Finally, any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations (for example, by using the term \u201cabout\u201d) that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
