---
title: Information placard holder for a stadium seat
abstract: A flexible panel having an window aperture with a clear covering and a cooperating pocket behind the window for holding an information containing placard. One embodiment utilizes a magnetic frame for attachment to a surface. Another embodiment uses an angled bracket attached to a stadium seat to tilt the placard toward the viewer in the seat behind.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07121621&OS=07121621&RS=07121621
owner: 
number: 07121621
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20050404
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","TABLE OF DETAILED COMPONENTS OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","ALTERNATIVE EMBODIMENTS AND OTHER VARIATIONS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["None","None","1. Field of the Invention","Holder for replaceable signage attached to the back of a chair or seat.","2. Description of Related Art","The backs of loose chairs or fixed seating used in group settings such as arenas, stadiums, convention meeting rooms, theaters, restaurants and the like are ideal surfaces for attaching informational placards for advertising, seat assignment, instructions, entertainment and the like to an audience that will be present long enough to read and digest the information presented. Since such an audience may also have time on their hands, become bored, etc, the placard must be contained in a reasonably vandal resistant holder and be replaceable at low cost, both for refreshing the message, and replacing vandalized holders.","In many venues, the attachment must not leave any residue such as glue or holes in the seat back.","Because the seat backs in many installations lean backwards a few degrees, a sign on the back should be offset to be at least vertical, or preferably, slightly upwardly facing to provide a more normal view for reading.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,174,082, by Miles Pelky, et al, describes a satchel having an open pocket for retaining an advertising panel (FIGS. 6\u201361 and Col 3 L38\u201351), and a second pocket 42 for slipping over the back of a chair. The overall function and purpose of Mr. Pelky's invention differs from the present invention. The present invention is intended to have a greater permanence and Mr. Pelky's display pocket is totally unprotected from being tampered with, as his application needs no such protection.","Mr. Pelky's invention is not intended to remain on the chair after occupation. It is to be removed and used as a carrying case (satchel or briefcase like) for convention handouts.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,248,536 by Eugene Du Katz is a laminated structure designed for adhesively attaching to a flat surface for relatively long periods of time. It is suitable only for flat surfaces unless special assembly procedures are employed. Even then it is not suitable for compound curved surfaces. Mr Du Katz placard is laminated using adhesives that permit disassembly. Such adhesives may need refreshing prior to re-assembly. That would be unwieldy high labor to do in the stands of an arena, so re-placing the indicia may require removal to a work shop area. Furthermore, Mr Du Katz placard is glued to the mounting surface. Again, there is the problem of residual glue on the mounting surface and refreshment of the adhesive. Removing any residual glue may require solvents, which would be unsatisfactory in the quantity needed for arena seat washing. Furthermore, the solvent may attack the paint on the seat. Mr. Du Katz intends his invention to be used on restaurant counter tops and similar places. Solvents might be needed to clean up the residual adhesives, but seldom and in small quantities. Also, counter tops are usually made of extremely durable non-painted surfaces such as Formica, glass, or ceramics which are resistant to common solvents and gentle scraping.","For arena and stadium use, his placard is a ready target for vandalism, and may also pick up ugly dirt around the exposed glue at the perimeter.","3. Objects of the Invention","It is an object of the present invention to provide a holder for a replaceable placard viewable to the person seated behind a chair or seat in a stadium, arena, or other group setting.","It is another object of the present invention to have the placard as vandal resistant as is practical in view of economic constraints on its construction and installation.","It is another object of the present invention to permit economical changing of the informational placard.","It is another object of the present invention to have alternative embodiments in the details of the construction and use of the disclosed invention also be included within the scope of the claims.","It is another object of the present invention to be capable of holding placards of substantial thickness, thereby permitting the use of holographic, dual image displays, and diffraction displays in which the viewed image changes with the angle of viewing or the quality of ambient lighting.","These objects and others will fulfilled by the descriptions of the invention to be presented herein.","A placard displaying system comprising a windowed panel with a placard holding part is integrally assembled with a means to affix a placard display to a seat of the kinds commonly found in stadiums, arenas, and meeting places is disclosed herein. The seat may be either fixed to the floor or portable.","Since some of the intended venues have seats in rows with people seated behind in close proximity, the display system must also include reasonable protection from vandalism and be both replaceable and changeable with minimal labor and material costs.","Accordingly, the disclosed invention is comprising a bag-like sleeve that fits over the back of a seat. One side of the bag has a paned window behind which an informational placard is placed. An internal second panel is secured behind the window thus forming a pocket into which an information containing placard is placed. Other areas of the bag surface including the front and sides may be inscribed with permanent logos, art-work, or information.","One use for the opposite side (seat side) of the bag from the window is to have a solid color to be used as pixels for large scale decoration. Zones of seating would be fitted with various colors so that from across the arena, the seat colors blend to form an image.","A second \u201ccolor\u201d of fluorescent paint could be used to cause the image to change under illumination with UV light and\/or be visible in a darkened arena.","A reflective material could be used to cause the seats to \u201clight-up\u201d on command of the master of ceremonies.","Other embodiments of the basic placard holder are described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0001","num":"0034"},"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0002","num":"0035"},"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0003","num":"0036"},"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0004","num":"0037"},"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0005","num":"0038"},"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0006","num":"0039"},"b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0007","num":"0040"},"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0008","num":"0041"},"b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0009","num":"0042"},"b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0010","num":"0043"},"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0011","num":"0044"},"b":"11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0012","num":"0045"},"b":"12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0013","num":"0046"},"b":"13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0014","num":"0047"},"b":"14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0015","num":"0048"},"b":"15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0016","num":"0049"},"b":"16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0017","num":"0050"},"b":"17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0018","num":"0051"},"b":"18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0019","num":"0052"},"b":["19","14","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0020","num":"0053"},"b":"20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0021","num":"0054"},"b":"21"}]}}}},"Referring to , a sheath or bag-like structure  is adapted to fit over the back of a chair or arena seat . The back of the sheath is a back panel  which has a window opening  covered by a placard protecting transparent panel. A panel of clear plastic is preferred, but a screen or mesh panel will suffice for use in some venues. A second, interior panel  is installed behind the window panel. The bottom and sides are closed to form a pocket to receive an informational placard. The pocket panel is shown as extending over almost all of the window. Because the placard will be supported by the seat back, the pocket may be much smaller, just covering a portion of the lower area of the window. Just enough to keep the placard from shifting or falling out of place.","The bag-like sheath is preferably constructed of flexible materials such as cloth, flexible plastic, or the like.","The areas around the perimeter of the window, the side panels, and the front side may be emblazoned with permanent inscription.","The chair shown in  has a significant thickness, Thus a portion of the sheath  requires side and top panels  which may be distinct parts as illustrated. When the chair back is comprised of thinner material, the panels may be merely the small portions of the front and back panels that are turned around the seat-back edge. The large panels shown may be separate pieces, have separate properties such as being elastic, or may also be extensions of the front and back panels.","The embodiment shown in  are flat against the seat back. Since many theater and arena seats have tilted-back seat backs and are mounted on rising floors, the placard inclosed in the present invention will be viewed at an oblique angle, which may be significant with some seat designs.  show a variation of the present embodiment where the placard holder  is a box-like bracket  structure with an upwardly facing viewing front to overcome the effects of the tilted seat back. Bracket front panel  may be hinged  along one side to permit opening for access to the placard holding pocket inside. Locking Hold-down fasteners  secure the placard holding panel to the mounting bracket . The bracket  may be fixed to the seat back or may be attached to a hard base panel shaped to conform the curvature of the seat-back. It is not necessary that the box  be closed on all 6 sides. Spring loading may be included so that the box collapses against the chair back when bumped by people passing along the row of seats.","The display panel is locked in place by one or more locking devices  such as a cam lock or threaded fastener having a turning means that is not likely to be operated by whatever tools are likely to be in the pocket of a sports fan, especially pocket knives, small screwdrivers, keys, nail clippers and the like. The turning means may be recessed hex (Allen) head, 3 winged recessed drive, spline drives, or unique 5 or 7 sided recessed heads, etc. Recessing blocks access to larger items such as keys and most knife blades. 3 wing drives in particular do not offer purchase to a simple flat blade screwdriver. Hex heads and splines can be turned by a common screwdriver of appropriate dimensions to fit snugly within the recess.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIGS. 4 and 5"],"b":["7","14","2","5","19","5","14","14","8","8","14"]},"The side panels  of  may be replaced with hooks or hook-like structures attached to the back panel  and hooking around, onto, or into the side edges of the seat. Elastic bands or an elastic back panel would supply the force to keep the hooks in place.","Instead of hooks, the placard holding panel may be held in place by loops of cord or fabric  over bollards , under buttons , or screw heads  attached to chair sides  or even the back of chair , wherever they may be unobtrusive to the occupant and others in the venue. These are illustrated in .","Screws should be intrepreted broadly to include \u00bc and \u00bd turn fasteners and friction-retained fasteners.","The characteristics in common between buttons, screws, and bollards is that the cord passes around and is held by a shaft, and accidental release is prevented by an enlarged head portion.","Hook-and-loop fasteners (Velcro) or snaps will perform the fastening operation in an equivalent way.","Loop cords  or the fabric of the panel itself are elastic to provide the tension to hold the panel snugly against the seat back.","For chair backs having a significant curvature, the seat-side of the bag embodiment  can be a firm panel curved to fit the seat back. This eliminates the cloth panel stretched across the chord of the seat back arc. Similarly, the box embodiment  shown in  may be attached to a similar hard, form-fitting back panel.","The hinge  described above for the embodiment illustrated in  may be replaced by any practical means of removably holding the display panel to the body of the box. Suggested are pins or tabs and co-operating holes, folded lip over the edge, and additional locks of the type already described. The principal advantages of using alternative \u201chinging\u201d is possibly lower cost to construct and that the display panel may be removed to a shop for refurbishing such as for fixing damage, repainting, re-logoing, or even reloading the message placard holder.","How to Use the Invention","The bag like embodiment shown in  is constructed to co-operatively fit over the back of a chair. Because the subject chairs are constructed in various dimensions, the dimensions of the bag may be customized to fit the target chair. In use, the informational placard is placed within the internal pocket and the placard holding bag is slipped over the chair back. To change the placard inside, it is usual to remove the bag, remove the old placard, and insert the new placard, then re-slip the bag onto the chair. Similarly, the box structure of  is opened with the cooperating tool and the placard replaced.","The magnetic embodiment of  is intended primarily for use on metal seat backs and on machinery, etc. Not all venues for gathering have participants with time on their hands or inclination to vandalize the facilities, thus a simpler version of the placard holder is a viable optional embodiment."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
