---
title: Parallel, individually addressable probes for nanolithography
abstract: A microfabricated probe array for nanolithography and process for designing and fabricating the probe array. The probe array consists of individual probes that can be moved independently using thermal bimetallic actuation or electrostatic actuation methods. The probe array can be used to produce traces of diffusively transferred chemicals on the substrate with sub-1 micrometer resolution, and can function as an arrayed scanning probe microscope for subsequent reading and variation of transferred patterns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07402849&OS=07402849&RS=07402849
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07402849
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050307
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10\/647,724, filed Aug. 25, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,867,443 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10\/008,719, filed Dec. 7, 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,642,129, which claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/307,976, filed Jul. 26, 2001.","This invention was made with United States Government assistance through Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Contract No. DAAD19-00-1-0414. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates generally to the art of efficient and high-speed generation of fine surface patterns made of chemical resists or biological substances using micromachined or microfabricated probes.","High-throughput lithography and surface patterning with extremely fine linewidths (e.g., on the order of 10-100 nm) are very important for the future growth of the microelectronics industry and nanotechnology. Next-generation integrated circuit technology will inevitably call for efficient and low-cost generation of features with a sub-100-nm linewidth. The emerging field of nanotechnology also requires patterning and functionalization of surfaces with a spatial resolution that is comparable with the scale of the molecules and cells that need to be manipulated and modified.","The resolution of conventional projection optical lithographic systems, still the most widely used in the microelectronics industry, is limited by optical diffraction. The resolution can be improved by using beam-based direct-writing tools with high energy and short wavelengths. High-energy beam lines, including ones that rely on electron beams and X-rays, are being used. However, such direct-write lithography systems suffer from several drawbacks. First, such systems are invariably complex and expensive. Second, these lithographic tools operate with a single beam and produce patterns in a serial manner, resulting in low throughput. Third, conventional high resolution lithography systems are not capable of depositing patterns made of biological molecules or chemical compounds. Only special chemical resists may be used.","Dip-pen Nanolithography (DPN) is a new and recently introduced method of scanning probe nanolithography. A description of DPN is contained in PCT\/US00\/00319, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. It functions by depositing nanoscale patterns on surfaces using the diffusion of a chemical species from a scanning probe tip to the surface, sometimes via a water meniscus that naturally forms between tip and sample under ambient conditions. As a DPN tip is scanned across the surface of a substrate, molecules on the surface of the tip are transported through the water meniscus that forms between the tip and the substrate surface. Once on the surface, the molecules chemically anchor themselves to the substrate, forming robust patterns. Features in the 10 nm to many micrometer range can be fabricated with commercially available silicon nitride tips. One factor that influences the linewidth of DPN writing is the linear speed of the tip. Smaller linewidths are achieved with faster tip speeds. Other factors that influence the linewidth include the sharpness of the DPN tip and the diffusion constants of the molecules used as inks.","DPN offers a number of unique benefits, including direct writing capability, high resolution (\u02dc10 nm linewidth resolution, ultimate \u02dc5 nm spatial resolution), ultrahigh nanostructure registration capabilities, the flexibility to employ a variety of molecules for writing compounds (including biomolecules) and writing substrates (such as Au, SiO, and GaAs), the ability to integrate multiple chemical or biochemical functionalities on a single \u201cnano-chip\u201d, a one-layer process for patterning, and the ability to automate patterning using customized software.","DPN technology can be implemented using a low-cost commercial scanning probe microscope (SPM) instrument. In a typical setup, the DPN probe chip is mounted on an SPM scanner tube in a manner similar to commercially available SPM tips. Precise horizontal and vertical movement of the probes is attained by using the internal laser signal feedback control system of the SPM machine.","The present invention provides nanolithography, such as Dip Pen Nanolithography, as well as nanoscale imaging, with individually addressable probes in dip pen arrays. A probe array having a plurality of active probes is provided, which allows greater functionality than in conventional, single-pen DPN by allowing independent actuation of individual probes through supplying current or voltage to an actuator coupled with the probe. A plurality of independently addressable probes produces a plurality of traces of same or different chemicals.","An apparatus is provided for applying at least one patterning compound to a substrate for nanolithography. The apparatus includes an array of parallel probes, each probe including a cantilever, a tip at a distal end of the cantilever for applying one of the at least one patterning compound to the substrate, and an actuator operatively coupled to the cantilever. The probes may be configured for Dip Pen Nanolithography. The actuator is designed to be responsive to an applied current or voltage to move the cantilever, and thus move the tip away from the substrate. The contact state between individual probe tips and the writing substrate can thus be independently controlled. In the case of DPN writing, the patterning process is suspended when the probe tip leaves the substrate. A number of preferred types of embodiments are disclosed. Methods are also provided for fabricating active probe arrays.","In one preferred type of embodiment of the invention, the actuator deflects the cantilever in response to applied electrical current to move the tip relative to the substrate. The actuator may be thermally operated.","According to a preferred embodiment, a thermal actuator includes a resistive heater connected to the cantilever and a wire connecting the resistive heater to a current source. When a current is applied through the resistive heater, heat is generated due to ohmic heating, thus raising the temperature of the resistor as well as the cantilever. Due to difference in the thermal expansion coefficient of the materials for the cantilever and for the metal resistor, the cantilever will be bent selectively in response to the applied current. A patch of thin metal film can be connected to the cantilever for enhancing the extent of thermal bending.","In a second type of preferred embodiment of the invention, the actuator deflects the cantilever in response to applied voltage. The actuator may be electrostatically operated. Preferred displacement is created by applying a voltage differential between two electrodes, at least one of them being not stationary.","A preferred embodiment of an electrostatic actuator includes a paddle electrode formed at an inner end of the cantilever opposite to the tip and a counter electrode. The paddle electrode faces the counter electrode with a gap having a predefined gap spacing. When a differential electrical voltage is applied across the top electrode and the counter electrode, the resultant electrostatic attraction force bends the cantilever beam and therefore moves the tip positions.","A preferred type of method of the current invention provides a method for applying at least one patterning compound to a substrate for high-speed probe-based nanolithography. The method includes the steps of: providing an array of individually addressable probes, each probe having a tip on a distal end; coating tips with same or different chemical substances; positioning the tips of the array of individually addressable probes over the substrate so that the tips are in contact with the substrate; raster-scanning the probes over the substrate surface; and selectively actuating at least one selected probe from the array of probes to move the tip of the selected probe away from the substrate. Accordingly, the selected probe does not apply patterning compound to the substrate when selected, while the non-selected probes apply at least one patterning compound to the substrate. Arbitrary two-dimensional patterns can be produced by raster-scanning the chip that contains the arrayed probes while controlling the position of individual probes during the scanning process. The probes may be configured for Dip Pen Nanolithography. The probes can also be generally applied to other nanolithography techniques where the interaction between a tip and a substrate alters the electrical, chemical, or molecular state of the surface, and may be used for imaging.","According to a preferred method of the present invention, the step of selectively actuating at least one selected probe includes the step of applying a current to a resistive heater connected to the cantilever, so that the cantilever beam is flexed. The deflection of the cantilever moves the tip away from the substrate to suspend writing on the substrate.","According to another preferred method of the present invention, the step of selectively actuating an individual probe includes applying a differential electrical voltage across a counter electrode and a moving electrode connected to an end of the selected probe. In this way, the moving and counter electrodes are moved towards one another, preferably to deflect the cantilever of the probe and move the tip away from the substrate.","Generally speaking, the present invention provides active probes and active probe arrays, which are designed to achieve direct-write nanolithography, such as DPN. Devices according to the present invention can generate sub-100 nm patterns in a high speed, parallel, and controllable fashion. The active probe arrays offer greater functionality by allowing actuation of individual probes through supplying current or voltage to an actuator of the probe. The present invention is primarily directed to methods and devices for parallel DPN using active probe arrays, and methods for fabricating active probes and active probe arrays.","The active probe array can also be used for other existing or future surface patterning and lithography methods based on the scanning probe microscope (SPM) instrument family. An atomic force microscope (AFM) is considered a member of the SPM instrument family. Examples of such lithography systems include local thermal oxidation and displacement lithography.","Referring now to , an example of a conventional DPN process is shown. DPN employs a tip 20 on a distal end of a cantilever of an AFM probe  (or other SPM probe) to deposit, or \u201cwrite\u201d, nanoscale patterns onto a solid writing substrate , such as gold. The tip  applies a patterning compound  coated on the tip  to the writing substrate . The patterning compound  may be a hydrophobic patterning compound with a chemical affinity for the writing substrate , such as, but not limited to, 1-octadecanethiol (ODT) or mercaptohexadecanoic acid (MHA).","Similar to traditional macroscopic \u201cdip pens\u201d (e.g., quill, fountain, or ball-point pens, or multi-pen plotters), DPN employs molecular (capillary) transport to transfer the patterning compound  from the tip  to the writing substrate , forming a pattern  of the patterning compound. A water meniscus  forms between the tip  and the writing substrate  due to relative humidity in a work area, and carries the patterning compound  from the tip to the writing substrate as the tip is moved relatively to the writing substrate in the direction of the writing W, as indicated on .","Initial DPN processes involved a single probe  (pen). Parallel patterns also have been realized using an array of up to eight commercial probes  with an inter-probe spacing of 1.4 mm to write a plurality of patterns  on the writing substrate . This technique also allows application of multiple patterns , where each pattern contains a different patterning compound, such as a biocompound. Parallel writing is also useful, for example, to form patterns  during integrated circuit formation. Examples of parallel probe structures can be found in R. Piner et al., \u201cDip-Pen\u201d Nanolithography, 1999, v. 283, pp. 661-663; S. Hong et al., Multiple Ink Nanolithography: Toward a Multiple-Pen Nano-Plotter, 1999, v. 286, pp. 523-525; S. Hong et al., A Nanoplotter with Both Parallel and Serial Writing Capabilities, 288, pp. 1808-1811.","Conventional parallel probe DPN processes are performed using commercially available AFM probes . Individual probes  cannot be moved independently from one another. Hence, all probes  must move simultaneously. Also, the inter-probe spacing of current parallel DPN arrays is too large for certain DPN applications and cannot fully satisfy the needs for a high-throughput and high-density arrayed DPN writing system. The present invention provides a nanoplotter with an array of independently active, microfabricated, closely spaced DPN probes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["32","34","38","40","42","34"]},"As the tips  of the active probes  are in contact with the writing substrate , an integrated actuator  controlled by a connected auxiliary control circuit  directs individual movement of the tips, preferably while the probe chip  is raster-scanned along the substrate  for patterning. The location of the integrated actuator  indicated in  is illustrative, and other actuator locations are contemplated. The term \u201cin contact\u201d is intended to refer to a sufficient proximity between the tips  and the substrate  to allow patterning of the patterning compound . When supplied with current or voltage from the control unit  via the probe chip , the actuator  moves a cantilever  of the active probe  to lift the tip  at an end of the cantilever off the writing substrate . This suspends the chemical deposition process. In this way, the active probe  can be individually controlled through selective application of current or voltage to create arbitrary patterns with high throughput.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 3"],"i":["a ","b ","a","b","a ","b"],"b":["3","56","54","56","54","3","20","24","28","48"]},"The material of the cantilever beam  in the thermally actuated probes  preferably is silicon nitride thin film formed by low pressure chemical vapor deposition methods (LPCVD). According to a preferred type of method of the present invention, the thermally actuated probes  are formed by creating silicon nitride probes that include a thermal actuator having at least a resistive heater .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a ","b "],"b":["4","54","66","50","54","70","70","48","70","54","68","50","54"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIGS. 5","FIGS. 5","FIGS. 4"],"i":["a","e ","a","d ","a","b ","a","c ","b","d ","c","a ","b. "],"b":["5","6","6","56","54","60","62","20","60","20","62","20","6","64","62","54","50","6","66","68","54","64","54","62","62","54","4"]},"In operation, the thermally actuated probes , in response to an applied current, bend along their length to move the tip  as shown in , due to differential thermal expansion of the metal for resistive heater  and optional patch  and the cantilever  of the thermally actuated probe. In a preferred method of operation, the control circuit  sends a current through the bonding wire  to the resistive heater  to bend the thermally actuated probe  into a circular arc of radius R due to differential thermal expansion of the silicon nitride cantilever  and the gold patch .","The expression for R under a given temperature change of \u0394T is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},{"mi":"E","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":"t","mn":["1","2"]}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},{"mi":"E","mn":"2"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":"t","mn":["2","2"]}}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},{"mi":"E","mn":"1"},{"mi":"E","mn":"2"},{"mi":"t","mn":"1"}],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":"t","mn":["1","2"]}},{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},{"mi":"t","mn":"2"}]},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":"t","mn":["2","2"]}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}}}},{"mn":"6","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},{"mi":"E","mn":"1"},{"mi":"E","mn":"2"},{"mi":"t","mn":"1"}],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},{"mi":"t","mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u0394","T"]}]},"mo":"."}}}}},"br":{},"b":["1","2"]},"In the thermally actuated probe , the bending of the cantilever beam  results in a deflection of the tip  of \u03b4:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["L","R"]}}}}}}}}}},"Accordingly, application of current I through selected bonding wires  causes the cantilever  of the thermally actuated probes  connected to the bonding wires to deflect upwardly and thus move the tip , as shown in ","The throughput of probe-based nanolithography can be made very high when a large number of active probes  in parallel are integrated on the probe chip . The thermally actuated probe array , manufactured according to the preferred type of embodiment of the present invention described above, results in a compact nanoplotter with high probe densities (spaced 100 \u03bcm on center) and integrated sharp tips, and may be used for nanolithography and AFM imaging.","According to another preferred type of embodiment of the present invention, an electrostatically actuated probe , shown in a preferred type embodiment in , is provided. Preferably, the probe  is formed as a unit of an electrostatic probe array , shown in a preferred embodiment in  in combination with the probe chip .","As shown in , the electrostatically actuated probe  includes an electrostatic actuator , which may include a paddle-shaped plate  at the inner longitudinal end of the cantilever , longitudinally opposite to the tip . The paddle-shaped plate  is preferably integrally formed with the electrostatically actuated probe . The electrostatic actuator  further includes a counter electrode , which is preferably stationary, and may be formed on the probe chip , for electrostatically interacting with the paddle-shaped plate . The counter electrode  may be formed as part of a parallel array of electrodes electrically connected to a number of bonding pads  longitudinally opposed to the counter electrodes, and both are patterned, adhered, or otherwise formed or attached to a glass substrate  which, in the completed embodiment, covers the array of counter electrodes and connecting bonding pads. The bonding pads  are preferably electrically connected to the control circuit  for selectively applying a voltage to one or more of the bonding pads. Methods for manufacturing the glass layer  including the counter electrodes  and the bonding pads  will be apparent to those in the art.","It is preferred that the electrostatically actuated probe  is also supported at or near the midpoint of the cantilever  by a compact, soft spring , for providing torsion support to the electrostatically actuated probe, allowing deflection and thus angular motion of the probes, for moving the tips  of the probes. As shown in , the spring  for each of the array  of electrostatically actuated probes  is preferably a section of a unitary piece (such as a twist beam) laterally extending through each individual probe. It is further preferred that each section of the spring  have a relatively small cross section along the longitudinal direction of the cantilever . As one in the art will appreciate, dimensions of the spring  such as the cross-sectional area can be varied depending on boundary conditions to control the angular flexibility of the cantilever .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["72","50","78","80"]},"A preferred method of fabrication of the electrostatically actuated probe  is shown in -. Referring first to , a silicon dioxide layer  is grown on a front side of a three-layered wafer containing a heavily boron-doped silicon layer  sandwiched between a <100>-oriented silicon wafer  and an epitaxial <100>-oriented silicon layer . Alternatively, the silicon layer  may be doped by phosphorous. The silicon dioxide layer  defines boundaries of a mask for forming the tip . Furthermore, the silicon dioxide layer  can define boundaries for forming a spacer , which vertically separates the electrostatically actuated probe  from the counter electrode , which is patterned on a separate glass substrate . In , the silicon tip  and the spacer  are formed from the epitaxial silicon wafer  by EDP etching. Next, as shown in , a thermal oxide layer  is grown over the epitaxial silicon wafer , including the tip , the spacer , and the boron-doped silicon layer  to protect the front side during the final release. As shown in , the silicon wafer  is then etched by EDP to remove material underneath the boron-doped silicon layer , and release the boron-doped silicon cantilever .","Next, as shown in , the thermal oxide layer  is removed, and the electrostatically actuated probes  are formed from the boron-doped silicon layer , including, preferably integrally, the cantilever , the soft spring , and the paddle-shaped plate , for each probe in the array. As shown in , the portion of the cantilever  longitudinally disposed between the paddle-shaped plate  and the soft spring  is preferably wider in cross-sectional area along the lateral direction, i.e. in the direction of the length of the soft spring, than the distal portion of the cantilever. In this way, the deflection of the tip  is greater because the bending torque is fully transferred to the support spring . The electrostatically actuated probe  is released.","Finally, as shown in , the layer of glass  and the connected counter electrode  are formed or placed over the spacer .","The preferred fabrication method results in electrostatically actuated probes  having a sharp tip  (preferably, <100 nm radius of curvature) and spaced approximately 620 \u03bcm on center. Accordingly, electrostatically actuated probes  according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention can be used for both DPN writing and AFM imaging.","Bonding wires  (not shown in -) preferably connect the paddle-shaped plate  to ground potential, while the counter electrode  is preferably electrically coupled to the control circuit  via bonding pads  for applying voltage to the counter electrode. It will be appreciated that the electric potentials of the paddle-shaped plate  and the counter electrode  may alternatively be reversed; i.e. the paddle-shaped plate may be coupled to a voltage source, while the counter electrode may be grounded. The modifications necessary for such an alternative embodiment will be understood by those in the art.","In a preferred method of operation, voltage is applied to the paddle-shaped plate  to apply potential to the paddle-shaped plate , while the conductive counter electrode  is grounded. Again, alternatively, the voltage application and grounding functions could be reversed between the top electrode  and the paddle-shaped plate . Either operation applies a differential electrical voltage across the top electrode  and the paddle-shaped plate , which are preferably separated by the spacer . An attractive force develops between the plates of the counter electrode  and the paddle-shaped plate  that pulls them toward each other, thus tilting the cantilever , and preferably angularly deflecting the cantilever  about the soft spring , to move the tip  away from the substrate . As in the thermally actuated probes , the tip  can thus be selectively lifted to suspend the writing (or imaging) process.","A number of preferred embodiments have been described for active, one-dimensional arrays. However, arrays are possible in two dimensions as well.  shows a two-dimensional array  according to another preferred embodiment of the present invention. The two-dimensional array  shown in  includes six rows and five columns of downwardly-angled probes . The downwardly-angled probes  may be produced by, for example, modifying the formation process for the thermally actuated probe array  to extend cantilevers of individual, thermally actuated probes  from cavities (replicated cells) that are preferably evenly disposed along the two-dimensional array . The thermally actuated probes  are preferably integrated into the two-dimensional array  due to a shorter required length for each cantilever . The methods for modifying steps of fabrication and operation for the thermally actuated probes  in the two-dimensional array  will be understood by those in the art.","One skilled in the art can appreciate that several inventive devices and methods for DPN arrays have been shown and described, which have various attributes and advantages. By configuring each probe to be individually addressed and actuated by application of current or voltage, either thermally or electrostatically, the active probe arrays according to embodiments of the present invention allow the formation of arbitrary patterns with added resolution, at throughput comparable to conventional methods.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a","b "],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a","b "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["a","e "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 6","FIGS. 5"],"i":["a","d ","b","e"],"b":["6","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 10","FIG. 9"],"i":["a","f "],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
