---
title: Dielectric resonator
abstract: A dielectric resonator is disclosed. In one embodiment, the resonator includes i) a conductive case having a plurality of walls which together define an inner space, ii) a substrate placed at the bottom of the conductive case, and iii) a cylindrical dielectric resonator unit, mounted centrally on the substrate having a central longitudinal axis. The cylindrical dielectric resonator unit includes a dumbbell shaped hole located centrally in the resonator unit extending from a top to a bottom of the resonator unit. In one embodiment, the dumbbell shaped hole includes i) a top layer, ii) a bottom layer and iii) an intermediate layer sandwiched between the top and bottom layers. In one embodiment, the substrate and resonator unit are enclosed inside the conductive case.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07417518&OS=07417518&RS=07417518
owner: Indian Institute of Technology
number: 07417518
owner_city: Pradesh
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20051011
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF CERTAIN INVENTIVE ASPECTS","DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN INVENTIVE ASPECTS","ADVANTAGES"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates, in general, to improved dielectric resonators wherein the spurious frequency modes are highly subsided.","2. Description of the Related Art","Microwave filters and dielectric resonator oscillators are widely used in the field of communication electronics especially in microwave telecom systems for Satellite telecom as well as terrestrial links and cellular\/mobile handsets. Dielectric resonators (DRs) are key microwave passive components finding wide applications in miniature microwave filters and oscillators for generating resonating frequencies for communication. The resonance mode spectrum of a DR is so dense that the spurious (undesirable, HE, HEor TM01\u03b4,) modes may interfere with the dominant (desirable, usually TE) mode. Thus it is valuable to attenuate the spurious modes for efficient transmission of the dominant (desirable) mode.","There have been several studies to improve the spurious free response of a DR configuration, while providing limited or no influence on the Q-factor for the DR.","The mode separation (in frequency) of the dominant (f, desirable) and the nearest (the undesirable) mode has been found to be 0.58 ffor a case of a ring DR shielded in a circular metal cavity. The comparative separation however tends to reduce for the DR in MIC configuration to (0.35 to 0.38)f.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,706,052 describes a design of dielectric resonator with TE mode being the primary mode used. The design is provided with a dielectric resonator having a plurality of dielectric resonator units which are combined into one unit by a connecting means, with a boundary being formed between adjacent dielectric resonator units. The dielectric resonator units are accommodated in a metallic conductive case with input and output members for electrical connection of said dielectric resonator with an external circuit. The design shifts a resonant frequency of spurious mode into a frequency zone higher than a resonant point by causing said spurious mode to pass through boundary surfaces or layers.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,059,929 provides a design of dielectric resonator which is constructed by piling a plurality of plate-shaped dielectrics one on the other under pressure or adhering respective dielectrics with an adhesive to each other so that faces thereof to which pressure is applied or faces thereof adhered to each other are parallel with an electric field in the dominant resonance mode of the dielectric resonator. The dielectric constant in the spaces to which pressure is applied or in the spaces in which the adhesive exists is low making it difficult for an electric field in a resonance mode other than a dominant resonance mode to pass through the spaces between the faces of the dielectrics to which pressure is applied or the faces thereof adhered to each. The spurious response is thus suppressed.","The disadvantages of the resonators of the said patents is that the mode separation changes with the change in the substrate thickness which does not provide versatility for choosing the substrate. Further, the mode separation degrades while tuning the device.","Thus there is still no dielectric resonator available in the art which efficiently generates the dominant desirable mode by subsiding the spurious modes. To fulfill this need, the present invention provides an improved dielectric resonator which overcomes all the above limitations.","Some inventive aspects described herein discuss an improved design for a configuration resulting in an improved mode separation in microwave integrated circuit (MIC) environment. The obtained mode separation in some embodiments is the best ever reported for shielded ring DR placed on a substrate. The dominant (interested) mode is TE and the nearest spurious mode is the TM or the hybrid modes. To get a better mode separation we may influence the resonance frequencies of TM and hybrid modes by influencing their resonance fields respectively. Accordingly, when some material from the ring DR is removed as proposed here (in )), the hybrid fields can be influenced more and better spurious free response could be obtained. Some embodiments of the improved DR show no deterioration Q-factor of fundamental mode as comparing to a ring DR in MIC environment. Some embodiments give mode separation that is higher over the ring DR even after changing the substrate thickness and the ratio of Q-factor of fundamental to nearest mode is also better over ring DR. Some embodiments also exhibit much lower degradation of mode separation than the conventional ring resonator while tuning and offers versatility in choosing the substrate thickness which is limited in a ring resonator.","In one embodiment the present invention provides a dielectric resonator comprising\n\n","In another embodiment of the present invention the 1layer and 3layer have same depth.","In yet another embodiment of the present invention the conductive case is cylindrical in nature.","In another embodiment of the present invention the substrate is cylindrical in nature.","In still another embodiment of the present invention the 1layer, 2layer and 3layer are cylindrical in nature.","In yet another embodiment of the present invention the 1layer and the 3layer have the same radius.","In still another embodiment of the present invention the 2layer has a radius smaller than 1and 3layers.","In another embodiment of the present invention the 1and 3layers are cone shaped.","In still another embodiment of the present invention the 1and 3layers are arc shaped.","In still another aspect of the present invention the conductive casing is made of a metal.","In yet another aspect of the present invention the conductive casing is gold plated.","In still another aspect of the present invention the substrate ground plane is gold plated.","In one more aspect of the present invention provides a dielectric resonator comprising:\n\n","In another aspect of the present invention 1and 3layers are cone shaped.","In yet another aspect of the present invention the 1and 3layers are arc shaped.","In still another aspect of the present invention the conductive casing is made of a metal.","In yet another aspect of the present invention the conductive casing is gold plated.","In still another aspect of the present invention the substrate ground plane is gold plated.","Certain embodiments show an improved design of a dielectric resonator wherein the spurious free response of the proposed dielectric resonator is about 6% better as compared to the conventional devices.","To get a better mode separation we need to influence the resonance frequencies of TM and hybrid modes by influencing their resonance fields respectively. The electric field of TE (fundamental mode) is basically confined near the perimeter of dielectric resonator but three other modes (undesirable, HE, HEor TM) are basically confined at the central region of the DR. By removing the plug from the central region in axial direction, we disturb the electric fields of only undesirable modes (HE, HEor TM) and influence the resonant frequencies. The resonant frequency of TE does not change because at the central region of DR there in no electric field due to TE mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIGS. 1(","FIG. 1(","FIG. 1(","FIG. 1("],"i":["a ","b","a","b","c"],"sub":"01\u03b4"},"In the modified ring resonator of ), some dielectric is removed from the central region of the top and some from the bottom of the ring resonator in axial direction. Thus by influencing the resonance fields of this central region of top layer, the hybrid mode fields can be influenced more with lesser influence on the TE mode. Accordingly, when some material from the ring DR is removed as proposed here (in )), the hybrid fields can be influenced more.","For the given configurations in  the dominant (interested) mode is TE and the nearest spurious mode is the TM or the hybrid modes.","Thus the structure of ) comprises three layers ,  and  as shown in ) having a hole in axial direction but only the radius of top and bottom holes are same (d) and the sandwiched layer having a different hole radius (c). The depth p of top and bottom layer is the same as shown in ). The resonator dielectric has a radius (a) and is on substrate having ground plane, which encloses the DR. The substrate could be any material with permittivity in the range of 2.2 to 9.3. In one embodiment the permittivity is about 2.2. The material used in the present invention is RT Duride.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"A comparative study was done on the dominant and nearest resonance modes as well as their Q-factors for the ring resonator of ) and the modified ring resonator of ). The DR characteristic and other structural parameters for the configurations are provided in . The substrate ground plane and the metal enclosure could be of any metal having high conductivity. In some embodiments, the metal enclosure is gold plated (\u03c3=4.1\u00d710mhos\/cm) to avoid corrosion. The unloaded Q-factor of all three resonator configurations takes into consideration the loss of the ground plane, the substrate, the dielectric resonator, the side of metal enclosure and the top and bottom cover plate. The mode separation between the dominant (TE) mode and the nearest adjacent (hybrid or TM type) is defined by the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mstyle":{"mtext":"Mode\u00a0\u00a0Separation"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["in","%"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["NEAREST","MODE"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["TE","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"01"}}],"mo":"-"},"msub":{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["TEO","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"1"}}}},"mo":"\u00d7","mn":"100."}],"mo":"="}}}},"The resonant frequencies and Q-factors obtained in the simulations have been used for the analysis of the ring and modified ring structure. The  shows the separation of TE with the nearest mode of the modified ring resonator for the various values of the c\/d ratio for the c\/a range between 0.3 to 0.5. The chosen c\/a range is according to the past studies of the ring resonator where the best mode separations have been observed at c\/a=0.25 to 0.5. Other c\/a ratios may also be used. It is seen from  that for various c\/a ratios the maximum separation occurs at different c\/d values. At c\/d=1 the modified ring resonator of ) becomes the ring resonator of ). Hence, in the plot in  the maximum separation of the modified ring is being compared with ring resonator (c\/d=1). The modified ring resonator always shows a better mode separation over the conventional ring resonator with improvement of 6%.","In the MIC environment the thickness of the substrate is an important design issue. Hence, the analysis has been carried out for various thickness (t) of the substrate. The influence of substrate thickness on mode separation for the three configurations is shown in . Substrate thickness is expressed here by t\/l, where t is the thickness of the substrate and l is the height of the dielectric. It is evident that (i) the mode separations monotonically increase with the thickness of the substrate for all the three configurations, and (ii) the modified ring DR always gives the best mode separation compared to ring DR and circular rod for various t\/l ratios.  shows a simultaneous evaluation of a Q-factor for these configurations at the chosen parameters (as in ). This reveals that the Q-factor for TE mode do not degrade for any of the configurations. However a more remarkable observation is about the Q-factors of the nearest higher (and potentially interfering mode with the dominant) modes. Qfor modified ring DR do not vary with substrate thickness, but for the ring it undergoes a peak at t\/l=0.4 while for a rod DR it monotonically increases. This behavior for various substrate thickness implies that the energy filling factor for the interfering modes (i) increases undesirably for a rod resonator, (ii) needs to be optimized for a ring resonator, and (iii) does not influence the modified ring resonator. This result renders versatility to the modified ring DR configuration, in respect to choice of substrate thickness and may be interest in optimized filter designs.","The proposed modified ring resonator provides an improved mode separation, to an extent of 6% over a corresponding ring DR configuration in a MIC environment. A further advantage of the proposed modified ring DR is its versatility in respect to substrate thickness, for an optimized mode separation design, which for a circular rod or ring DR is not available.","A tuning element is an advantageous structure in a DR configuration, to compensate the shift in resonance frequencies, which appear due to the allowed fabrication tolerances, operating temperature variations and also to accommodate for the inevitable errors due to the theoretical predictions. The tunability performance for the various configurations has been examined not alone for the range of resonant frequencies the tuning can provide, but also for its influence on the mode separations. This is considered advantageous, since, a tuning metal screw tends to degrade the spurious free response. The tuning structure for the ring DR and the modified ring DR are presented in . The diameter of tuning screw is kept at Ds=a or Ds=2a. Evaluations for the resonant frequencies and Q-factors for the TE mode with the gap dimension g were done. The tunability is determined from where the frequency without tuner corresponds to maximum g value.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mtext":"Tunability"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["TE","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"01","mrow":{"mi":"max","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"with\u00a0\u00a0tuner"}}}}},{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["TE","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"01","mrow":{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"without\u00a0\u00a0tuner"}}}}}],"mo":"-"},"msub":{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":["TE","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"01","mrow":{"mi":"min","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"without\u00a0\u00a0tuner"}}}}}},"mo":"\u00d7","mn":"100"}}}}},"The tuning range with the larger diameter screw, Ds=2a, is higher for all the configurations. Significantly, for the case of the modified ring DR configuration, where a maximum mode separation improvement had been observed, the tuning range (6.079%) is maintained close to comparative ring DR tuning range (6.335%). This advantageous aspect ensures that mode separation improvement obtained in the proposed modified ring DR, is not at the cost of tunability. On considering results of the studies done with respect to tuning effects, it was observed that while tuning ranges are generally higher for larger diameter screw, the degradation in Q-factors is also higher. However, the Q-factors in general remain higher for the modified ring case over the comparative ring DR configuration, and more so when Ds=a.","Another important object of this tunability study is regarding the behavior of mode separation with tuning. The plots () show that in general the mode separations reduce with tuning for all the configurations, though to a lesser extent for the smaller diameter screw Ds=a ()). Further in ), it may be seen that degradation in mode separation with reducing g (or increasing tuning) is far lesser for the modified ring DR than a comparative ring DR. The extent of degradation in mode separation, for the available tuning range has been determined from these plots () & ()) using a following definition",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mtext":"Mode\u00a0\u00a0Separation\u00a0\u00a0Degradation"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["S","D"]}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"S","mrow":{"mi":["g","max"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mi":"S","mrow":{"mi":["g","min"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":"-"},"msub":{"mi":"S","mrow":{"mi":["g","max"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}}},"Sis maximum mode separation (at max value of g (without tuning screw)) and Sis minimum mode separation (at min value of available g).","Obviously, a smaller Ssignifies a lower degradation and hence a better spurious free response over the tunability range as may be provided in a given configuration. The modified ring DR, provides a lesser degradation in mode separation than a comparative ring DR. The degradation is found to be least (0.285) for the modified ring DR configuration for Ds=a, where tunability is 1.622%. In a comparative ring DR, the degradation SD increases twofold (0.56) with only a slightly higher tuning range (2.27%). It may also be noted that a higher tunability range can be obtained, though at the cost of higher degradation of mode separation for the case when screw Ds=2a.","The principle used can also be applied for designing alternative designs of the dielectric resonator to provide better spurious free response. ) shows an arc shaped modified ring resonator and ) shows a cone shaped modified ring resonator. The following Table-1 shows the mode separations of TE mode with the nearest modes for the ring DR and modified ring DR of arc and cone shapes. For c\/a=0.40 and k=0.75 and k=0.075. It can be easily seen that the modified ring resonator of the arc and cone types provide better mode separation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE-1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Ring DR","Modified Ring DR"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Separation",{},"Separation"]},{"entry":["Parameter","(in %)","Parameter","(m %)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["c\/a = 0.40 k = 0.0","36.37","(a) Arc shape","40.13"]},{"entry":[{},{},"c\/a = 0.40, k = 0.075\u2033"]},{"entry":["c\/a = 0.40 k = 0.0","36.37","(a) Cone shape","39.03"]},{"entry":[{},{},"c\/a = 0.40, k = 0.075\u2033"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The mode separation obtained for these embodiments is the best ever reported for shielded ring DR placed on a substrate.","Some advantages include:\n\n"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1("],"sub":"01\u03b4","i":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"sub":"01\u03b4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"sub":"01\u03b4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 6(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 6(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 7(","FIG. 7"],"i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 7(","FIG. 7"],"i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 8(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 8(","i":"b"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
