---
title: Instrumented ballistic test projectile
abstract: A ballistic test projectile includes a nose section comprising a windshield and aft of the windshield, an ogive; a body section aft of the nose section, the body section comprising a generally cylindrical body connected to the ogive; a base section aft of the body section, the base section comprising a base adapter connected to the body and a base bottom connected to the base adapter; a base pressure gage disposed in the base bottom; at least one side pressure gage disposed in the body; and an electronics cup disposed in the body, the electronics cup comprising a battery cup, a signal conditioning cup, a multiplexer cup, an accelerometer cup and a transmitter cup.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600421&OS=07600421&RS=07600421
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07600421
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061207
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to ballistic munitions and in particular to ballistic projectiles that measure conditions in the launching tube.","Military organizations have always needed a device to obtain information about the interior ballistic environment of cannon launching projectiles. Knowledge of launching conditions is used to design cannons and munitions to achieve optimum launching and accuracy. Only within the past 50 years have scientists started placing sensors into projectiles to record the interior ballistic event. Early electronic devices were pressure sensors that were hard-wired to a data acquisition system located near the cannon. When the projectile was launched, the data acquisition system would record several milliseconds of data before the wire was broken.","More recently, commercially available electronics have allowed the instrumentation of projectiles with small accelerometer sensors and pressure gages. These devices either recorded or telemetered data at a relatively low frequency rate, thus missing phenomena or smoothing out the data. Additionally, these older devices were one-time shot devices that were destroyed during the test.","It is an object of the invention to provide an instrumented ballistic test projectile that senses and transmits interior (inside of gun tube) ballistic information in realtime.","It is another object of the invention to provide an instrumented ballistic test projectile that is reusable, with little or no refurbishment.","It is a further object of the invention to provide an instrumented ballistic test projectile that measures base pressure and side wall pressure.","One aspect of the invention is a ballistic test projectile comprising a nose section including a windshield and aft of the windshield, an ogive; a body section aft of the nose section, the body section comprising a generally cylindrical body connected to the ogive; a base section aft of the body section, the base section comprising a base adapter connected to the body and a base bottom connected to the base adapter; a base pressure gage disposed in the base bottom; at least one side pressure gage disposed in the body; and an electronics cup disposed in the body, the electronics cup comprising a battery cup, a signal conditioning cup, a multiplexer cup, an accelerometer cup and a transmitter cup.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","The invention comprises a projectile that senses and transmits the interior ballistic event in realtime. The primary interest is in conditions inside the launch tube, however, the projectile may also be used to measure and transmit data once the projectile has exited the launch tube. The projectile may be launched from a cannon tube or mortar tube, for example. The instrumented ballistic test projectile is rugged enough so that most of its components are reusable, with limited refurbishment. The present invention withstands the high acceleration and spin rate of the cannon launching environment.","A combined telemetry and sensor system and hardened projectile body allow the capture of the pressurized environment on the base and side of the projectile as it is being launched. A tri-axial accelerometer module senses the acceleration forces in all three linear directions. The signals from the sensors are combined and transmitted at an extremely high rate so as not to degrade the signals. Receiving antennae located near the muzzle exit of the cannon receive the signals from the on-board transmitter. A ground station receives and records the data. The projectile can be recovered and, with minor refurbishment, reused. Reusing the projectile saves money.","The invention incorporates a modularized power supply, accelerometer module and signal conditioning and telemetry system with an integrated antenna. In one embodiment, the telemetry system is an analog system which multiplexes signals and then transmits them. In another embodiment, the telemetry system is a digital system. The modularized system easily plugs into the projectile body, which has integral pressure gages in the side wall and in the base. Several gages are located in the wall and generally one gage is located in the base. An ogive and windshield make up the forward section of the projectile, protecting the electronics from gun launch and ground impact. In the event that the ground impact damages the windshield or ogive, these parts are easily replaceable.","During launch, the slip band obturator is destroyed. The slip band obtrurator is a band on the base of the projectile that seals the expanding cannon gases from leaking past the projectile. The base easily comes off and can be replaced if damaged. When the base is removed, the obturator band is then replaced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["10","10","12","14","16","12","18","18","20","14","12","22","20","16","14","24","22","26","24","22","24","26"]},"A base pressure gage  is disposed in the base bottom . The base pressure gage  measures pressure at the base of the projectile . At least one side pressure gage  is disposed in the body . Preferably, a plurality of side pressure gages  (for example, four) are disposed circumferentially around the body  equidistant from each other. Side pressure gages  measure pressure along the side wall of projectile . Passageways  in body  connect the side pressure gages  to the side wall pressure field. An electronics cup  is disposed in the body  and includes a battery cup , a signal conditioning cup , a multiplexer cup , an accelerometer cup  and a transmitter cup .","The base pressure gage  with shim  is disposed in a protective base gage holder . Shim , O-ring  and rear nut  fit on the aft end of the base gage holder . A base gage tube  threads into the forward end of the base gage holder . A base tube captive ring  attaches the base gage tube  to the rear nacelle . Coaxial plug  electrically connects the base pressure gage  to wiring (not shown) inside the rear nacelle .","An obturator  and obturator ring  () are disposed on the base section . In one embodiment, the obturator  is a slip obturator such that substantially no spin is imparted to the projectile . A non-spinning projectile  is desirable to limit the range of the projectile. In most cases, the ballistic information that is desired relates to conditions inside the launch tube. Therefore, it is not necessary that the projectile  have any range beyond the muzzle of the tube. Spinning projectiles are much more stable than non-spinning projectiles and, therefore, have longer ranges. A non-spinning projectile is unstable and will, for example, turn sideways or turn completely around after exiting the tube. This behavior creates a lot of drag, which lessens the range of the projectile .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 3"],"b":["12","14","10","32","20","22","10","12","10","18","20","18","10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["18","20","22","50","30","68","82","32","70","76","32","72","22","74","78","72","80","78","28","30","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIGS. 4 and 5"],"b":["32","32","10","32","32","36","38","40","42","44","36","38","40","42","44","70","32","84","86","88","36","38","40","42","44","32"]},"The electronic \u201ccups\u201d plug into and are stacked on top of each other in the electronics cup . Because functionality is separated by \u201ccup\u201d, the overall function of the electronics cup  may be varied by substituting other component cups (not shown). The plug-in modularity of the electronics cup  makes the projectile  easily reconfigurable. Also, in case the electronic components are damaged, the cups are easily replaceable, so that the projectile  has a short down time.","Experience has shown that the projectile  may land on its nose or its base. The ogive  preferably comprises aluminum. If the ogive  and windshield  () are damaged, they are easily replaced because of their threaded connections. When the slip obturator () is used, the projectile  has little or no spin and more often will land on its base. Thus, base bottom  () preferably comprises aluminum. Base bottom  is threaded onto base adapter  for easy replacement, if necessary. The body , base adapter  and rear nacelle  preferably comprise steel. These components provide strength to the projectile  and protect the electrical components inside the projectile. In a typical landing, these components will not be damaged.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
