---
title: Method and system of access control based on a constraint controlling role assumption
abstract: In an RBAC system, a capability is defined as including an operation and an object on which the operation is to be performed. The capability is assigned to a role, which is in turn assigned to a user. Whether a user's request to perform an operation on an object should be authorized is determined based on whether a capability to perform the operation on the object is assigned to a role which is in turn assigned to the user. Further, the authorization is determined based on the evaluation of the constraint(s) attached to the role. If the evaluation result of the constraint(s) disallows the user to assume the role, the user is prohibited from performing the operation on the object even the user has such capability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07712127&OS=07712127&RS=07712127
owner: Network Appliance, Inc.
number: 07712127
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061117
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["At least one embodiment of the present invention pertains to access control systems, and more particularly, to a Role Based Access Control (RBAC) system.","Various forms of network storage systems are known today. These forms include network attached storage (NAS), storage area networks (SANs), and others. Network storage systems are commonly used for a variety of purposes, such as providing multiple users with access to shared data, backing up critical data (e.g., by data mirroring), etc.","A network storage system typically includes at least one storage server, which is a processing system configured to store and retrieve data on behalf of one or more client processing systems (\u201cclients\u201d). In the context of NAS, a storage server may be a file server, which is sometimes called a \u201cfiler\u201d. A filer operates on behalf of one or more clients to store and manage shared files in a set of mass storage devices, such as magnetic or optical disks or tapes. The mass storage devices may be organized into one or more volumes of a Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks (RAID). Servers are made by Network Appliance, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif.","In a SAN context, the storage server provides clients with block-level access to stored data, rather than file-level access. Some storage servers are capable of providing clients with both file-level access and block-level access, such as servers made by Network Appliance, Inc.","A business enterprise or other organization that manages large volumes of data may operate one or more storage servers. These storage servers may be connected to each other through one or more networks. The storage servers and other network components may be managed by one or more network administrators (also called \u201cadministrative users\u201d or simply \u201cadministrators\u201d), who are responsible for configuring, provisioning and monitoring the storage servers, scheduling backups, troubleshooting problems with the storage servers, performing software upgrades, etc. These management tasks can be accomplished by the administrator using a separate management console on the network, which is a computer system that runs storage management application software specifically designed to manage a distributed storage infrastructure. An example of such a storage management application is DataFabric\u00ae Manager (DFM), made by Network Appliance, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif.","To prevent unauthorized users from accessing and controlling functions of the storage servers, there is a need for some form of access control. One form of access control is Role Based Access Control (RBAC). Within an organization, roles are created for various job functions. The permission to perform certain functions is assigned to specific roles. Members of staff (or other system users) are assigned particular roles, and through those role assignments acquire the permissions to perform particular system functions.","Since users are not assigned permissions directly, but only acquire them through their role (or roles), management of individual user rights becomes a matter of simply assigning the appropriate roles to the user, which simplifies common operations such as adding a user, or changing a user's department.","In a prior art RBAC system, a user is allowed to assume a role that has already been assigned to him, in any circumstances. There are no other criteria for determining whether the user is allowed to assume the role. This limits the RBAC system's ability to provide more flexible access control.","The present invention includes a method and system of access control based on a constraint controlling role assumption (e.g., whether a user is allowed to assume a role). The method may be implemented in a role based access control system. According to the method, a constraint is specified to control whether a user is allowed to assume a role.","Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying figures and from the detailed description which follows.","A method and system of access control based on a constraint controlling role assumption (e.g., whether a user is allowed to assume a role) are described. References in this specification to \u201can embodiment\u201d, \u201cone embodiment\u201d, or the like, mean that the particular feature, structure or characteristic being described is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Occurrences of such phrases in this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","101","102","103","104","101","102","103","104","103"]},"The object  defines the target on which the operation  is to be performed. The object  may be any kind of physical or logical entity. For example, in a network storage environment, the object  may be a file system, a volume, a directory, a file, etc. Yet in the banking system mentioned above, the whole banking system would be the object  within which a checking account for the customer may be created.","More than one capability  may be assigned to a single role  simultaneously so that the role  is authorized to perform multiple operations on multiple objects. A role  may be assigned to a user (a system administrator, for example) so that the user may assume the capability or capabilities assigned to the role .","One aspect of the solution being introduced here is a method for specifying one or more constraints on the assumption of a role. Whether a user's request to perform an operation on an object should be authorized is determined based on whether the user has such capability (based on a user's role membership in a role that allows such capability) along with the evaluation of the constraint that must be satisfied before the user can assume that particular role. Here, the phrase \u201ca user has such capability\u201d means that the capability of performing the operation on the object is assigned to a role which is in turn assigned to the user. One example of the constraint may be a time range constraint. That is, only within the specified time range, the user is allowed to assume the role. Examples of values that may be used in a constraint include the CPU load of a storage server, the network load of a storage server, the memory usage of a storage server, the number of connections to a storage server or the number of active users currently accessing a storage server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["2","4","2","3","1","4","2","2","1","4"]},"Each of the clients  may be, for example, a conventional personal computer (PC), server class computer, workstation, or the like. Each storage server  may be, for example, a file server used in a NAS mode (a \u201cfiler\u201d), a block-based storage server such as used in a storage area network (SAN), or other type of storage server. In a NAS implementation, the interconnect  may be essentially any type of computer network, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), metropolitan area network (MAN) or the Internet, and may implement the Internet Protocol (IP). In a SAN implementation, the interconnect  may be, for example, a Fibre Channel switching fabric which implements the Fibre Channel Protocol (FCP).","The mass storage devices in each storage subsystem  may be, for example, conventional magnetic disks, optical disks such as CD-ROM or DVD based storage, magneto-optical (MO) storage, or any other type of non-volatile storage devices suitable for storing large quantities of data. The storage devices in each storage subsystem  can be organized as a Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks (RAID), in which case the corresponding storage server  accesses the storage subsystem  using an appropriate RAID protocol.","Also connected to the interconnect  are one or more management consoles , each of which includes a storage management application , such as a network storage manager discussed in detail below.","Recently, some storage servers have been designed to have distributed architectures, to facilitate clustering of storage nodes. Clustering facilitates scaling of performance and storage capacity. For example, rather than being implemented in a single box, a storage server may include a separate N- (\u201cnetwork\u201d) module and D- (disk) module, which are contained within separate housings and communicate with each other via some type of switching fabric or other communication medium. An N-module is an element that acts as a front-end of a storage server, exporting a file service abstraction to clients. A D-module manages the underlying storage. Each D-module typically manages a separate set of disks. Storage servers which implement the Data ONTAP\u00ae GX operating system from NetApp can have this type of distributed architecture.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["6","6","301","302","301","302","301","304","2","304","304","5","304","301","304","304","303","304","301","304","304","302","2","303","303","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","a"],"b":["105","101","105","101","101","102","102","101","101","101","101","101","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"i":"b ","b":["301","401","304","401","301","6","301","402","304","304","304","402","303","402","303","301","403","303","404","404"]},"Going back to the same example illustrated in , assume the current time is 10:00 am. In that case, the request to backup the log file \u2018system.log\u2019 in volume engineering_a should be denied, because a constraint \u201cactive only between 8:00 am and 9:00 am on each Sunday\u201d is attached to the role. The user is not allowed to assume the role, even though the role has already been assigned to the user.","Note that the each of the modules introduced above (the Interface , the Request Analysis Module , the Role Constraint Retrieving Module  and the Authorization Module ) can be software, special-purpose circuitry, or combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 3 and 4"],"i":"b","b":["501","401","502","402","503","402","303","504","503","503","509","504","505","403","303","506","404","2","2","404","2"]},"At step , if the Authorization Module  determines that the constraint(s) does not disallow the user to assume the role based on the results of the evaluation of the constraint(s), the request is authorized at step . Otherwise, the request is denied at step .","Note that attaching a constraint on role assumption directly to a role is only one possible implementation. The constraint on role assumption and the role may be stored separately.","RBAC can be used for enforcing a policy of separation of duty. Separation of duty is considered valuable in deterring fraud since fraud can occur if an opportunity exists for collaboration between various job related capabilities. Separation of duty requires that for particular sets of transactions, no single individual be allowed to execute all transactions within the set. The most commonly used examples are the separate transactions needed to initiate a payment and to authorize a payment. No single individual should be capable of executing both transactions. The system administrator can control access at a level of abstraction that is natural to the way that enterprises typically conduct business. This is achieved by statically and dynamically regulating users' actions through the establishment and definition of roles, role hierarchies, relationships, and constraints.","Static separation of duty means that roles which have been specified as mutually exclusive (or conflicting with each other) cannot both be included in a user's set of authorized roles. With dynamic separation of duty, users may be authorized for two roles that are mutually exclusive (or conflicting with each other), but cannot have both roles active at the same time. In other words, static separation of duty enforces the mutual exclusion rule at the time an administrator sets up role authorizations, while dynamic separation of duty enforces the rule at the time a user selects roles for a session. Here, a first role is considered to conflict with a second role if assuming the first and second roles by a same user simultaneously is against a policy of separation of duty. The policy is specified by an administrator. For example, a policy may specify that if a user has assumed the duty of managing corporate finances, the user should not assume the duty of managing employee records. Thus, as shown in , a user  may has two roles  assigned to him, but he may only assume on role at a particular time if the two roles  conflict with each other.","One aspect of the invention is to incorporate and implement the separation of duty principle into an RBAC system used for controlling access to a network storage system such as introduced in , therefore providing a more powerful and flexible access control mechanism.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["2","5"]},"The processing system includes one or more processors  coupled to a bus system . The bus system  is an abstraction that represents any one or more separate physical buses and\/or point-to-point connections, connected by appropriate bridges, adapters and\/or controllers. The bus system , therefore, may include, for example, a system bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a HyperTransport or industry standard architecture (ISA) bus, a small computer system interface (SCSI) bus, a universal serial bus (USB), or an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standard 1394 bus (sometimes referred to as \u201cFirewire\u201d).","The processors  are the central processing units (CPUs) of the processing system and, thus, control the overall operation of the processing system. In certain embodiments, the processors  accomplish this by executing software stored in memory . A processor  may be, or may include, one or more programmable general-purpose or special-purpose microprocessors, digital signal processors (DSPs), programmable controllers, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), or the like, or a combination of such devices.","The processing system also includes memory  coupled to the bus system . The memory  represents any form of random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, or a combination thereof. Memory  stores, among other things, the operating system  of processing system or the storage management application .","Also connected to the processors  through the bus system  are a mass storage device , a storage adapter , and a network adapter . Mass storage device  may be or include any conventional medium for storing large quantities of data in a non-volatile manner, such as one or more disks. The storage adapter  allows the processing system to access a storage subsystem and may be, for example, a Fibre Channel adapter or a SCSI adapter. The network adapter  provides the processing system with the ability to communicate with remote devices over a network and may be, for example, an Ethernet adapter or a Fibre Channel adapter.","Memory  and mass storage device  store software instructions and\/or data, which may include instructions and\/or data used to implement the techniques introduced here.","Thus, a method and system of access control based on a constraint controlling role assumption (e.g., whether a user is allowed to assume a role) have been described.","Software to implement the technique introduced here may be stored on a machine-readable medium. A \u201cmachine-accessible medium\u201d, as the term is used herein, includes any mechanism that provides (i.e., stores and\/or transmits) information in a form accessible by a machine (e.g., a computer, network device, personal digital assistant (PDA), manufacturing tool, any device with a set of one or more processors, etc.). For example, a machine-accessible medium includes recordable\/non-recordable media (e.g., read-only memory (ROM); random access memory (RAM); magnetic disk storage media; optical storage media; flash memory devices; etc.), etc.","\u201cLogic\u201d, as is used herein, may include, for example, software, hardware and\/or combinations of hardware and software.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments, it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described, but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["One or more embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like references indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
