---
title: Composites for wireless optical communication
abstract: An apparatus and process for operating connectorless, free-space data porting optical structural composites with integrated optical or electrical busses are disclosed. Optical transceivers and fiber optic/coaxial cable are embedded into a foam-core composite sandwich structure which is infiltrated with vinyl ester resin. The embedded busses are composed of a signal source producing an optical free space signal, which is shone onto an optical/electrical bus containing a transceiver for converting this signal into another electrical or optical signal which then is imprinted upon a coaxial or fiber optic cable buried in the composite structure. The signal traverses the composite structure, then a transceiver converts the electrical/optical signal into a free space optical signal which shines out of the composite structure to an outside free space optical receiver. The optical free space signal is oriented to be received and transmitted at an angle of about 90 degrees relative to the composite material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07387451&OS=07387451&RS=07387451
owner: University of Delaware
number: 07387451
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061012
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/726,116 filed Oct. 13, 2005, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The present was sponsored by the Army Research Laboratory under Contract Number DAAD19-01-02-0001. Accordingly, the government has certain interests in the present invention.","The present invention relates to communications networks and, more particularly, to connectorless, normal incidence, free-space data porting optical structural composites with integrated optical or electrical busses.","Considerable work has been performed on embedding electrical cabling and optical fibers into structural composite materials. Typically, this embedded cabling is integrated with sensor arrays in order to measure and report environmental and material conditions such as temperature, strain, and onset of damage. Another application for embedded cabling is for creating an integrated optical bus for high bandwidth data communication throughout a composite structure. Such an integrated bus can be used to transmit information between external or embedded sensors, actuators, processors, displays, communication devices, and other components associated with the composite structure. In such circumstances, the composite structure acts as a structural local area network (LAN).","One example application for a structural LAN is in a modern military ground vehicle, which has a series of complex, interdependent subsystems such as propulsion, communication, and weapons. Currently, conductive wiring is traced between components in the vehicle. This technique has several disadvantages. Cutouts in the structure are necessary to provide a pathway for wiring between onboard devices. Electrical cabling, especially for complex systems with many components, can introduce significant weight and volume. Wireless communication is one alternative to electrical wiring, but is susceptible to interference, jamming, and interception.","Replacing the external cabling in the military vehicle with integrated busses embedded in a composite structure offers a number of advantages over wired or wireless LANs, such as lower weight and volume, higher bandwidth, and insusceptibility to interference, jamming, and interception. However, an important challenge is the connectorization of the embedded cabling to external devices. Interfacing with embedded busses using conventional techniques requires physical connectorization. For electrical busses, coaxial or multi-pin interfaces are most common. For optical busses, ferrules and mechanically interlocking connectors are typically implemented. For example, to implement this approach for embedded optical fibers, a short length of fiber end is typically traced out of the structure. These \u201cpigtails\u201d are extremely fragile and bulky, and have greatly limited the practical application of embedded optical fibers.","One method for remote querying of embedded components in a military vehicle is via RF communications. However, in applications where interference, jamming, or interception of signals is possible, methods using RF communication are unfavorable. Another method used for remote querying of embedded components is to use a graded index lens (GRIN). This approach typically requires the interrogation light source to have line-of-sight access to the end face of the optical fiber, which limits interrogation to the edges of composite structures. For most practical structural network applications, however, edge access is very limited.","What would be desirable, but has heretofore not been implemented, are noninvasive, normal incidence, free-space data porting structural composites with integrated optical busses.","The present invention overcomes the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art discussed above by providing an optical composite structure which includes a composite material. The composite structure includes a first optical transceiver for receiving an optical signal external to the composite material, which is embedded in the composite material at a first location and oriented to receive the external optical signal at an angle to the composite material. The composite structure also includes a second optical transceiver for transmitting a second optical signal external to the composite material, which is embedded in the composite material at a second location and oriented to transmit the second optical signal at an angle to the composite material. The composite structure also includes a communication medium embedded in the composite material for allowing communication between the first optical transceiver and the second optical transceiver. A fiber optic cable acting as an optical bus or a coaxial cable acting as an electrical bus may be embedded in the composite material and functions as the communication medium. The optical free space signal is oriented to be received and transmitted at an angle of about 90 degrees relative to the composite material.","In the present invention, optical transceivers are designed, fabricated, and embedded into composite materials so that data can be ported into and out of the embedded optical\/electrical busses using line-of-sight optical devices. The transceivers and fiber optic\/coaxial cable are embedded into a foam-core composite sandwich structure. The embedded busses of the invention include a signal source producing an optical free space signal, which is aimed at an optical\/electrical bus containing a transceiver for converting this signal into another electrical or optical signal which then is transmitted using a coaxial or fiber optic cable buried in the composite structure. The signal traverses the composite structure, and a second transceiver converts the electrical\/optical signal into a free space optical signal which is transmitted out of the composite structure to an external, free space optical receiver. These embedded transceivers can be remotely sensed by external optical transceivers, so that signal coupling to the composite structure can be achieved without physical connectorization.","In a passive embodiment of the present invention, the embedded link includes a composite encasing a plastic fiber optic cable and a pair of mirrors.","In an active embodiment of the present invention, an externally powered, active transceiver utilizes semiconductor components. A composite material encases a glass fiber optic cable, an input photodetector, an externally powered optical-to-electrical converter integrated circuit, an input driving LED, an output photodetector, an electrical-to-optical converter integrated circuit, and an output driver LED.","In another active embodiment of the present invention, an embedded link includes externally powered, semiconductor-based active transceivers electrically coupled to micro-coaxial cable link with the transceivers embedded in the resin of a composite structure. The receiver can include an operational amplifier with a negative feedback photodiode. The transmitter can also include an operational amplifier with a negative feedback light-emitting diode (LED).","In another active embodiment of the present invention, an embedded link includes semiconductor-based active transceivers which draw their power from an outside optical transmitter, a glass fiber optical cable, and an encasing composite. The receiver includes a series connection of a plurality of photodiodes. The photodiodes are used to drive an 850 nm vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) via the fiber optical cable.","Another self-powered active embodiment of the present invention uses embedded optical fibers with impregnated fluorescent dye. The dye fibers convert an external visible (light-emitting diode) signal into waveguided light which is transmitted into the fiber. The dye-based impregnated optical fiber is directly stimulated by incoming optical signals. New photons, generated by the dye, travel along the optical fiber and are directed out of the embedded structure through passive optics (e.g., a mirror).","Further features and advantages of the invention will appear more clearly on a reading of the following detailed description of several exemplary embodiments of the invention, which are being provided by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings.","The present invention relates to connectorless busses embedded in a composite structure to allow for using free-space optical porting of signals through the structure. The composite structures of the present invention be classified as passive or active. In a passive embodiment of the present invention, photons transmitted into an optical bus are directly shuttled along the bus and out of the structure to an external device. The key is that the same photons that are going into the composite are also leaving the composite. In active embodiments of the present invention, the photons transmitted to the composite are converted to either an electrical signal or to new photons that are then shuttled down the bus and out of the composite to an external device. Photodiodes and LED's can be used to convert incoming photons to an electrical signal or a new optical signal, or the bus itself can be the active component. Active embodiments of the present invention can further be classified as externally powered or self-powered. Externally powered configurations would require batteries or a power supply whereas self-powered configurations could be powered by the incoming optical signal itself. In all embodiments, an optical free space signal is oriented to be received and transmitted at an angle of about 90 degrees relative to the composite material.","With reference to , a composite structure of the present invention, generally indicated at , employs a passive free-space optical porting technique which includes a composite  encasing a plastic fiber optic cable  and passive transceivers , . The passive transceivers , are implemented by a pair of mirrors , . The mirrors , are used to port incoming photons from, for example, a light emitting diode (LED)  into the plastic fiber optic cable , and thenceforth to direct the same photons out of the plastic fiber optic cable  to an external optical detector  (e.g. a photodetector). This approach is simple and requires no external power but requires careful optical design to allow for efficient coupling of photons between components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["16","18","18","18","18","20","22","24","26","28","30","32","34","26","32","26","32","36","24","26","28","28","22","16","30","22","32","36","38"],"i":["a","b","a","b "]},"Now referring to , A-B, and A-B, there is shown a composite structure  of the present invention which uses externally powered, semiconductor-based active transceivers ,  (i.e., a receiver and transmitter) with an electrical bus  to achieve a connectorless communication link. Unlike the composite structure  depicted in , the composite structure  uses an electrical bus  rather than an optical bus. The composite structure  includes an encasing composite , a coaxial cable electrical bus , a transceiver  (receiver), and a transceiver  (transmitter). The electrical bus  is shown herein as a coaxial cable, but any electrical bus  capable of transmitting and receiving in the multi-megabit to gigabit range is suitable, including, but not limited to twisted pair copper conductors, etc. As shown in , the transceiver  includes a photodetector , and an operational amplifier  with a negative feedback resistor . As shown in , the transceiver  includes an operational amplifier  with a negative feedback resistor  and feedback LED . The transceiver  can be implemented, for example, with a United Detector Technologies UDT-451 detector\/preamplifier chip. The transceiver  can be implemented, for example, with an Analog Devices Inc. AD711JN op-amp which can be used to power for example a Ledtronics Inc. 850 nm surface mount LED. The transceiver  can be connected to the transceiver  through, for example, a RG178B\/U micro-coaxial cable  (1.91 mm diameter) (obtained from Pasternack Enterprises Inc.). A free space signal is injected into the composite structure , for example, by an external LED  shown in , and converted to an electrical signal at the transceiver . The electrical signal is then transmitted through the coaxial cable  and is amplified at the transceiver , thus converting the electrical signal back to a free space optical signal, which can be detected, for example, by an external photodetector .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["46","48","44","40","40","46","48","40","40"]},"The embodiment shown in  was tested by placing it into an environmental and mechanical testing apparatus. After fabrication, the power leads of the composite structure  were connected, for example, to a 20 V DC dual power supply. The composite structure  was tested by modulating an ULM Photonics ULM850-04-TN-ULCBPP 850 nm Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Laser (VCSEL)  driven by an HP 8082A pulse generator . The output signal was detected by using a United Detector Technologies UDT PIN-10DP-0327-1 photodetector  which was connected to an Agilent Infinium\u00ae oscilloscope  so that the signal could be measured. The composite structure  was shown to be operational at 10 kHz. A link efficiency of approximately 1% free space to free space light was measured. Therefore, given an input power of 1 mW an output power of 10 \u03bcW can be obtained which is sufficient for optical communication.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 9"],"b":["1","2","2","40","40","40","40","40"]},"A mechanical test was performed to see how the composite structure  would operate as the composite was loaded through mechanical failure. A three-point bend test using a load span -was performed as shown schematically in . The composite structure  was operated under a continuous optical signal during testing. Mechanical crimping of the composite structure  occurred at a deflection of 0.35 cm but the operation of the composite structure  was unaffected. The composite structure  was subjected to further deflection up to 2.54 cm, and the composite structure  remained completely operational. Upon releasing the load, a decrease in the optical power from 31.8 uW to 31.2 uW was observed. This decrease corresponded to less than a 2% loss of optical power, which can be considered negligible. Note that the transceiver devices ,  are located outside of the load span -. The coaxial cable  is located approximately 2 mm below the surface of the skin, above the core midplane, and is therefore loaded in compression during the testing. It is also important to note that the composite structure used for mechanical testing was the same composite structure  that was previously exposed to the thermal cycling and heat\/humidity soak.","Now referring to , in another embodiment of the present invention, a composite structure  uses a self-powered, active transceiver utilizing semiconductor components with an optical bus to achieve a connectorless embedded link. The composite structure  includes a transceiver  (receiver), a glass fiber optical cable , a transceiver  (transmitter), and an encasing composite . As shown in , the transceiver  includes a series connection of a plurality of photodiodes -(e.g., five Vishay Semiconductor BPW34 silicon PIN photodiodes). The photodiodes -are used to drive a ULM Photonics ULM850-04-TN-ULCBPP 850 nm vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL)  via the fiber optical cable . The multiple photodiodes -are used in order to generate sufficient voltage to drive the VCSEL . A laser-based light source (i.e., the VCSEL ), instead of an LED, is used for the output signal due to its increased efficiency once the laser reaches its threshold current. The VCSEL , in particular, has a very low threshold current compared to conventional edge emitting lasers. However, in other embodiments, any light emitting device such as an LED or an edge emitter may be substituted. The construction of the transceiver  is similar to the construction of the transceiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 11-13"],"b":["72","1","2","2"]},"Referring now to , DC optical measurements on the composite structure  of  were performed by driving the photodiodes -with a Mille Luce M1000 light source connected to a fiberscope and connectorizing the VCSEL  directly to a Promax Prolite-20 fiber optic test meter. As shown in , the composite structure  demonstrated a 2.5% efficiency after the VCSEL  reaches its threshold current. Note that before the VCSEL  reaches its threshold current, the efficiency is only 0.025% and then increases dramatically by a factor of 100 after the threshold.","Referring now to , a another version of a self-powered, semiconductor-based active transceiver is depicted. The series array of off-the-shelf photodiodes -of the transceiver  of  has been replaced by an interdigitated array of two photodiodes , . This interdigiated array can allow for balanced illumination of the two photodiodes , , resulting in a highly efficient coupling with an incident beam of small cross-sectional area. The transceiver (receiver)  is fabricated using GaAs PIN structure wafer with an insulating substrate. Standard semiconductor processing techniques of photolithography, etching and deposition were used to fabricate the transmitter  in the laboratory. The transceiver  is connected to a VCSEL  (i.e., the transmitter) as a transmitter.","Referring now to , another version of a self-powered, semiconductor-based active transceiver is depicted. To increase output voltage, a second interdigitated, dual photodiode  was connected in series with a first interdigitated, dual photodiode  to form a quadruple photodiode (PD). The resulting device was able to drive a VCSEL  at an efficiency of 0.001%.","Referring now to , a still another embodiment of the present invention is depicted which employs a self-powered, dye-based active transceiver utilizing fluorescing dyes with an optical fiber bus. The composite structure  includes a dye-impregnated optical fiber , a passive optical transmitter  (e.g. a mirror), and an encasing composite shell . The dye-based impregnated optical fiber  is directly stimulated by incoming optical signals (e.g., from an LED ). New photons, generated by the dye, travel along the optical fiber  and are coupled out of the composite structure  into a detecting device (e.g., a photodetector ). Instead of using the mirror  as an optical transmitter, the optical fiber can be bent up and out of the composite in order to extract the photons. It is also possible to replace a dyed optical fiber with a conventional, dye-less optical fiber bus coupled to dye-based transceiver optics at the ends of the optical fiber bus.","The impregnated fiber can be illuminated at an end face or on the side. When the fiber is illuminated from the side only newly created photons are carried along the fiber. In the present invention, side illuminated is preferred.","With reference to , a 1.0 mm diameter dye-impregnated plastic optical fiber  from Industrial Fiber Optics, with a peak emission of 635 nm (red) was manually woven into a conventional, plain-woven glass fabric . A 532 nm green laser , oriented normal to the fiber length, was then used to illuminate the dye fiber . The green laser source  causes the dye to fluoresce and produce red photons, which are waveguided along the fiber  and exit at its cleaved end. The efficiency of this technique was measured and determined to be approximately 0.1% free space to free space light, which is sufficient for optical communication. Measurements also indicate that signal transmission of at least 100 kHz is possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIGS. 18-19"],"b":["102","1","2","2"]},"It should be appreciated that the present invention provides numerous advantages over the conventional wired or wireless LANs optical. For instance, because the composite structures of the present invention are connectorless, optical fibers and optical devices can be completely embedded within a composite, creating a simple and robust integrated data bus. Furthermore, through the use of multiple and redundant busses and transceivers, a modular structural network can be created which can be quickly and simply reconfigured. The self-powered composite structures of  show that it is possible to couple with embedded busses without requiring independent power busses to drive the embedded components.","The composite structures illustrated in , , , , and  have several advantages over the prior art. For example, the composite structures of  are more robust to environmental and mechanical stresses. The photodiode-based composite structure  of  demonstrates efficient use of semiconductor devices, while the dye-based composite structure  of  shows a remarkably simple and elegant free-space coupling approach. The response of embedded optical fibers with impregnated fluorescent dye has been measured to be microseconds or less, thus supporting data rates of at least few megabits per second. With the wireless optical implementation, sensing and communication to embedded optical and electrical networks is enabled with minimum physical invasiveness.","The composite structures of , , , , and  demonstrate that it is possible to completely embed an optical data network inside a structure while still enabling efficient coupling of external optical devices. In addition to transmitting information between external devices, it is possible that this concept could be used to create connectorless, embedded sensors which are interrogated using similar free-space optical techniques. The free-space coupling techniques described above are also applicable to optical porting with embedded electrical networks or sensors.","It will be understood that the embodiments described herein are merely exemplary and that a person skilled in the art may make many variations and modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. All such variations and modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is made to the following detailed description of several exemplary embodiments considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 3 and 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 16A","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 16A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 16C","FIG. 16A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 17A","FIGS. 16A and 16C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 17B","FIG. 17A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
