---
title: Machine gun mount
abstract: A machine gun mount for attachment to a movable support arm of a helicopter and for holding a machine gun, the machine gun mount comprising a pintle that is rotatably connected at a first end to the movable support arm, the first end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a vertical axis; a gun cradle that is rotatably connected to a second end of the pintle, the second end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a horizontal axis; an ammunition magazine disposed on a first side of the gun cradle; and a spent case catch bag disposed on a second side of the gun cradle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07543524&OS=07543524&RS=07543524
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07543524
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060227
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119(e) of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/593,956 filed on Feb. 28, 2005, which application is hereby incorporated by reference. The subject matter of the present application is related to the subject matter of nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 10\/709,044 filed on Apr. 8, 2004, which has the same inventor as the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference.","The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to weapons and in particular to a mount for a machine gun that is fired from a helicopter.","Machine guns such as the M240 may be mounted in a helicopter and fired while the helicopter is underway. The machine gun is attached to the helicopter via a machine gun mount. The machine gun mount allows the machine gun to rotate in the horizontal plane (i.e., rotate around a vertical axis) and also the rotate in a vertical plane (i.e., about a horizontal axis). The primary aircraft for mounting the M240 are the UH60 and CH47 helicopters. On the CH47 helicopter, the machine gun may be door, window or ramp mounted.","Existing mounts suffer from a variety of problems. Mobility of the machine gun during firing and stowage may be restricted due to interference with other structures inside the helicopter. The machine gun dust cover (on the cartridge ejection opening) cannot be opened while the machine gun is in the mount. The ammunition magazine, that is part of the machine gun mount, requires two-handed operation to remove from the mount and replace with a full ammunition magazine. The lid of the ammunition magazine is susceptible to accidental opening because the latch may be opened by simply pushing on the top of the latch. The empty cartridge links tend to jam up at the link collector chute. The mounting pins are not captive and, therefore, may be easily lost.","It is an object of the invention to provide a machine gun mount that increases mobility of the machine gun, compared to known mounts.","Another object of the invention is to provide a machine gun mount that allows the machine gun dust cover on the cartridge ejection opening to be opened while the machine gun is in the mount.","A further object of the invention is to provide a machine gun mount with an ammunition magazine that can be removed and replaced using one hand.","Still another object of the invention is to provide a machine gun mount with an ammunition magazine having a lid that is not susceptible to accidental opening.","Yet another object of the invention is to provide a machine gun mount with a link collector that does not jam.","A still further object of the invention is to provide a machine gun mount with mounting pins that are captive and, therefore, not easily lost.","One aspect of the invention is a machine gun mount for attachment to a movable support arm of a helicopter and for holding a machine gun, the machine gun mount comprising a pintle that is rotatably connected at a first end to the movable support arm, the first end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a vertical axis; a gun cradle that is rotatably connected to a second end of the pintle, the second end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a horizontal axis; an ammunition magazine disposed on a first side of the gun cradle; and a spent case catch bag disposed on a second side of the gun cradle.","The spent case catch bag frame is attached to the second side of the gun cradle. The spent case catch bag is attached to the spent case catch bag frame. The spent case catch bag frame includes a pair of generally U-shaped supports disposed inside the spent case catch bag at opposite ends thereof. The spent case catch bag frame comprises a link chute on a top surface thereof, the link chute including an opening having a width that is greater than a width of a link ejection opening in the machine gun.","The ammunition magazine comprises a box, a lid and a latch for closing the lid to the box, an upper portion of the latch including a latch cover.","A cradle bracket is attached to the first side of the gun cradle. The cradle bracket includes a pair of vertical slots on opposite sides thereof and a spring latch disposed in an opening in the cradle bracket; a pair of mounting brackets attached to the ammunition magazine and operable to slide in the vertical slots in the cradle bracket; and a stop disposed on the ammunition magazine above the pair of mounting brackets.","In one embodiment, a travel lock is attached to the pintle, the pintle including an opening therethrough that includes a recess for capturing at least one spring loaded ball on the end of a quick release pin.","Another aspect of the invention is an apparatus comprising a machine gun having a link ejection opening, a spent cartridge ejection opening and a dust cover for covering the spent cartridge ejection opening; and a machine gun mount for attachment to a movable support arm of a helicopter and for holding the machine gun, the machine gun mount comprising a pintle that is rotatably connected at a first end to the movable support arm, the first end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a vertical axis; a gun cradle that is rotatably connected to a second end of the pintle, the second end of the pintle providing for rotation of the machine gun about a horizontal axis; an ammunition magazine disposed on a first side of the gun cradle; and a spent case catch bag disposed on a second side of the gun cradle.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1","FIG. 11A"],"b":["11","1","1","10","11","11","12","14","12","16","12","14","12","20","26","20","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["11","32","10","32","34","62","62","64","34","32","34","32","10","34","32","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["32","32","3","3","12","36","32","38","40","36","32","10","12","38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","12","4","4","42","12","44","46","36","32","44","40","38","46","40","44","36","32","38","36","32","42","12"]},"The forward end  of the gun cradle  also comprises an upper pair of transversely spaced lugs  with openings  therethrough. The aft end  of the gun cradle  comprises a pair of transversely spaced lugs  with openings  therethrough. The openings  in the upper pair of transversely spaced lugs  at the forward end of the gun cradle and the openings  in the pair of transversely spaced lugs  at the aft end of the gun cradle mate with respective forward and aft openings in the machine gun . Fasteners ,  connect the forward and aft transversely spaced lugs ,  with the forward and aft openings ,  in the machine gun , respectively ().","The pintle  shown in  is suitable for use with the UH-60 helicopter.  show an alternative pintle  for use with the CH-47 helicopter.  is a side view and  is an end view of pintle .  is a side view and  is a top view of cam follower . Pintle  includes a first end  that is rotatably connected to the support arm  () to allow rotation of the gun  about a vertical axis. The support arm  of  may differ in construction depending on the particular helicopter and mounting location. The second end  includes an opening . The second end  is disposed between the lower lugs  of the cradle . Pintle  includes a cam follower  having arms  with openings  formed therein. The arms  fit between the second end  of the pintle  and the lugs  of the cradle such that the openings  of the cam follower,  of the pintle and  of the lugs are aligned to receive pin . Extension  of the cam follower cooperates with support arm  (connection not shown in Figs.). As discussed before, cradle  is rotatable about the horizontal axis of pin .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-C","FIGS. 1A-C"],"b":["28","12","2","14","16","28","28","30","28","30","16","30","16","30"]},"On a top surface of the spent case catch bag frame  is a link chute  having an opening  therein. The link chute opening  mates with the link ejection opening  () in the machine gun . Used links from gun  are guided through the link chute  into the catch bag . The width x () of the link chute opening  is greater than the width of the link ejection opening  in the gun .","The ammunition magazine  () comprises an ammunition box  and a lid  for closing the box . A latch  secures the lid  to the box .  is an enlarged view of a latch  for closing the ammunition magazine lid . A latch cover  covers the upper portion of latch  to prevent an accidental push from opening lid . With cover  in place, one must pull on the bottom of latch  to open it. Thus, the chance of an accidental opening by brushing against the latch  is eliminated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 2","FIG. 9A"],"b":["14","102","14","12","98","12","98","100","102","104","98","106","14","100","98","108","14","106","14","104","108","98","98","102","14"]},"When using pintle , a travel lock  () may be used to maintain the mount  in a vertical stowed position. In , the mount  is in the operating position (the gun  is not shown). When the gun and mount are stowed, the pin  is retracted a bit so that the pin  does not interfere with rotation of the travel lock . Then, the entire mount , including gun , cradle , magazine  and catch bag frame  is rotated about pin  into a substantially vertical position. At that position, the opening  in travel lock  is aligned with the opening  in pintle  and a fastener is inserted in the openings to maintain the travel lock in position.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 11B","FIGS. 4A"],"b":["114","120","114","114","116","117","114","114","118","32","18","120","118","32","117","120","114","18","114","10","12","48","42","12","52","56","12","120","117"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 4A"],"b":["122","122","10","10","12","160","162","122","10","12","162","122"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
