---
title: Sideload vanes for fluid pump
abstract: A fluid pump assembly includes a rotatable component that can be rotated about an axis and a static vane assembly located adjacent to the rotatable component. The static vane assembly includes a circumferential surface axially spaced from the rotatable component, and one or more vanes extending from the circumferential surface toward the rotatable component. The one or more vanes are configured to produce a radial load on the rotatable component when the rotatable component is rotating about the axis and a fluid is present between the static vane assembly and the rotatable component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07670110&OS=07670110&RS=07670110
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07670110
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE"],"p":["The present invention was made, in part, with government funding under NASA Contract No. NAS8-36801. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to vane assemblies suitable for use in fluid pumps, and more particularly to static vane assemblies for producing radial loads on turbopump components.","Rocket engines can utilize turbopumps to deliver propellants to an injector assembly in the combustion chamber. Such turbopumps have rotors that rotate as the turbopump operates, and impellers that rotate as part of the rotor to increase the pressure of propellants or propellant mixtures. It is desired to obtain a low, steady synchronous vibration response during turbopump operation. However, for a variety of reasons, a particular turbopump may produce an undesired sub-synchronous response. Sub-synchronous vibration responses can be caused, at least in part, by insufficient radial loading on a given bearing set of the turbopump.","Undesired asynchronous vibration response issues could be addressed in a number of ways. However, many potential solutions are overly complex, insufficiently robust, or are otherwise undesirable, for instance, resulting in an unsatisfactory turbopump performance loss. As one example, the rotor bearings could be redesigned, but redesigns of rotor bearings are difficult and complex. Moreover, flow inlets and outlets create load vectors that could be optimized relative to undesired vibrations, but optimal inlet and outlet flow paths may undesirably increase engine size and\/or mass and may provide optimal design \u201cwindows\u201d (i.e., tolerances on desired vibration characteristics) that are too small to be practical.","A turbopump assembly according to the present invention includes a rotatable component that can be rotated about an axis and a static vane assembly located adjacent to the rotatable component. The static vane assembly includes a circumferential surface axially spaced from the rotatable component, and one or more vanes extending from the circumferential surface toward the rotatable component. The one or more vanes are configured to produce a radial load on the rotatable component when the rotatable component is rotating about the axis and a fluid is present between the static vane assembly and the rotatable component.","The present invention provides an apparatus and method for reducing undesired vibration of components of a fluid pump. In particular, the present invention provides advantages in producing radial loading on bearing supports for pump rotors, which otherwise permit undesired vibrations in an unloaded condition. The present invention utilizes sideload vanes positioned adjacent to rotating members that work upon the fluid in the pump. The sideload vanes produce a non-uniform circumferential pressure field in a fluid in the pump, as fluid moves in a flowpath adjacent to the vanes. The non-uniform circumferential pressure field in turn, imparts radial loading to rotor bearings that otherwise would be substantially unloaded and prone to undesirable vibration issues.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","22","24","26","28","30","32","34","22","24","24","24","24","22","24","26","24","26","20","20","28","30","32","22","20","28","30","32","22","34","28","30","32","28","30","32","20","28","30","32"]},"A sideload portion  of a first diffuser  is located adjacent to the first impeller , a sideload portion  of a second diffuser  (also called the 1-2 diffuser) is located adjacent to the second impeller , and a sideload portion  of a third diffuser  (also called the 2-3 diffuser) is located adjacent to the third impeller . The diffusers , ,  are static components located at a forward or upstream side of the respective adjacent impellers , ,  (to the left of the impellers , ,  as shown in ). A portion of a secondary flowpath is defined in a gap between the sideload portions of the diffusers and the adjacent impellers, for instance, between the sideload portion  of the second diffuser  and the second impeller . The secondary flowpath corresponds to a fluid flow that is generally outside the primary flowpath that carries the majority of fluid through the turbopump . In a conventional prior art turbopump, the secondary flowpaths between the sideload portions , ,  of each of the diffusers , ,  and the impellers , ,  would be circumferentially uniform, a condition which would produce no net radial load on the rotor shaft  or first bearing set .","The turbopump  includes numerous other components not specifically identified herein. Those skilled in the art will understand the basic operation of turbopumps. Therefore, further explanation here is unnecessary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIGS. 2 and 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["50","38","50","28","30","32","20","50","30","28","50"],"sub":["0","3 "]},"The sideload vane assembly  is a static component that includes a central opening  for the rotor shaft  and flange  at the perimeter of the assembly having bolt holes for mounting the assembly  in the turbopump . The assembly  can be made of a metallic material, such as aluminum. A sideload wall  is positioned (radially) between the central opening  and the flange . The sideload wall  extends circumferentially about the entire assembly , that is, the sideload wall  has an angular sweep of 360\u00b0 about the centerline CL. The sideload wall  is radially positioned so as to align with one of the side of the diffusers ,  or  adjacent to one of the corresponding impellers ,  or .","The sideload wall  includes a substantially smooth wall portion  and six pockets A-F. The pockets A-F form five vanes A-E at the circumferentially spaced edges thereof. As shown in , the vanes A-E are located within a first angular region, which has an angular sweep of 154\u00b0 about the centerline CL between angles \u0398and \u0398. The vanes A-E are substantially equally angularly spaced within the first angular region. The substantially smooth wall portion  is located within a second angular region, which has an angular sweep of 205\u00b0 about the centerline CL between angles \u0398and \u0398. The first and second angular regions have a combined angular sweep of 360\u00b0, that is, together they extend circumferentially about the entire assembly . It should be noted that in alternative embodiments, the number and arrangement of the vanes can vary. For example, more or fewer than six pockets can be formed. Moreover, the first angular region can have a greater or lesser angular sweep, and the position of the first angular region (i.e., the \u201crotational\u201d position of the reference markers with respect to a pump mounting location) can vary. Furthermore, the vanes need not be equally angularly spaced.","In , a portion of the sideload wall  is shown, including pockets B-D and vanes C-D. A number of reference dimensions are indicated in , including a vane height H, a vane width W, and a pocket depth D. The dimensions H, W, and D can be adjusted for particular applications, to provide desired performance characteristics, including desired radial loading.","Each of the vanes A-E has a substantially rectangular shape, and the pockets A-F and vanes A-E can be formed by milling the sideload wall . Use of rectangular vanes simplifies manufacture while still providing sufficient structural integrity. In alternative embodiments, the shape of the vanes can vary as desired.","In operation, as fluid is being pumped through the turbopump , the sideload vane assembly  interacts with the fluid in the secondary flowpath (i.e., in the gap between the sideload vane assembly  and the adjacent second impeller ). The vanes A-E of the assembly  act like asymmetric swirl brakes and generate a non-uniform circumferential pressure field in fluid in the secondary flowpath. The non-uniform circumferential pressure field imparts a moment on the adjacent second impeller , and that moment produces a radial force component in the second impeller  that, in turn, radially loads the rotor shaft  and the first bearing set .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["20","30","50","22","22","24","26","30","22","26","24","20","20","26","24","26","20","20"],"sub":"4"},"A vector Irepresents natural radial loading of the third impeller , and a vector Trepresents natural radial loading of the turbine assembly . Vector Iis oriented at about 0-50\u00b0 with respect to a given angular reference point \u0398(not shown), and vector Tis oriented at about 0\u00b0 with respect to the reference point \u0398. The vectors Iand Tarise due to the rotation of and interaction with fluids by the third impeller  and the turbine assembly , and due to configurations of fluid inlets and outlets of the turbopump . Vectors Iand Testablish a preferred direction of radial loading for the turbopump , based on the natural characteristics of the turbopump , that is, based on factors substantially independent from radial loading imparted by the sideload vane assembly . The vectors Iand Tgenerally have small magnitudes that, alone, do not provide significant stiffness to the first bearing set .","The sideload vane assembly  is configured such that the first direction of radial loading imparted by assembly  substantially aligns with the preferred direction of radial loading of the turbopump  (i.e., such that \u0398\u2248\u0398). Such alignment, although not strictly necessary, improves the effectiveness of the radial loading and reduces performance losses.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["20","28","30","32","22","34","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Reference",{}]},{"entry":["Marking","Definition"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["A","Vector for axial load on the selected impeller associated"]},{"entry":[{},"with the first angular region (of the adjacent sideload vane"]},{"entry":[{},"assembly)"]},{"entry":["A","Vector for axial load on the selected impeller associated"]},{"entry":[{},"with the second angular region (of the adjacent sideload"]},{"entry":[{},"vane assembly)"]},{"entry":["CL","Turbopump centerline axis aligned at the center of the"]},{"entry":[{},"rotor shaft"]},{"entry":["D","Axial distance between the selected impeller and the first"]},{"entry":[{},"bearing set (measured midpoint-to-midpoint)"]},{"entry":["D","Axial distance between the first bearing set and the second"]},{"entry":[{},"bearing set (measured midpoint-to-midpoint)"]},{"entry":["D","Radial distance between the selected impeller and CL"]},{"entry":[{},"(measured midpoint to midpoint)"]},{"entry":["R","Vector for radial load on the selected impeller at the first"]},{"entry":[{},"angular region"]},{"entry":["R","Vector for radial load on the selected impeller at the"]},{"entry":[{},"second angular region, with vector Rbeing positioned"]},{"entry":[{},"180\u00b0 from vector R"]},{"entry":["FBNL","Vector for the net radial load on the first bearing set"]},{"entry":["SBNL","Vector for the net radial load on the second bearing set"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"It should be noted that although reference markings are shown in  primarily with respect to the second impeller , similar parameters would exist for the other impellers ,  where sideload vane assemblies were located adjacent to the other impellers , .","The magnitude for the vector FBNL (i.e., the net radial load on the first bearing set ) is given by the following equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"FBNL","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","A"]},{"mi":["D","ATOT"]}]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"R","mn":"1"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","A"]},{"mi":["D","ATOT"]}]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"R","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"2"},{"mi":"A","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","R"]},{"mi":["D","ATOT"]}]}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"The vector FBNL for the sideload vane assembly  of  is directed at an angle designated as \u0398, which can be determined empirically. The angle \u0398generally lies within the first angular region of the vane assembly , and is generally offset from the symmetry line of the first angular region (i.e., angle \u0398) in a direction opposite to the direction of rotation of the impellers , ,  and rotor shaft . The offset of angle \u0398from angle \u0398is due to the fluid dynamics within the pump.","The magnitude for the vector SBNL (i.e., the net radial load on the second bearing set ) is given by the following equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"SBNL","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","R"]},{"mi":["D","ATOT"]}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"A","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["D","A"]},{"mi":["D","ATOT"]}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"R","mn":"1"},{"mi":"R","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"The vector FBNL gives the anticipated radial loading on the first bearing set , and the sideload vane assembly  can be configured such that the anticipated radial loading provides desired stiffness to maintain engagement of the first bearing set  (e.g., to maintain engagement of the first bearing set  with the housing A). Equations (1) and (2), and the free body diagram in  help illustrate the relationship of the forces that produce radial loading on the first bearing set  due to the non-uniform circumferential pressure field created by the sideload vane assembly .","A bench test experiment was performed on an embodiment of the vane assembly  like that described above. The turbopump  was run under normal operating conditions pumping water. The sideload vane assembly  had five vanes A-E and six pockets A-F, where the vane length L was 3.429 cm (1.35 inches), the vane width W was 0.635 cm (0.250 inches), the pocket depth D was 0.1524 cm (0.060 inches). The vanes A-E were equally circumferentially spaced within a first angular region having an angular sweep of about 154\u00b0.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":"20"},"The first angular region of the sideload vane assembly  corresponds approximately to values of \u0398 between \u0398and \u0398(inclusive of \u0398), as shown in the graph of . The second angular region of the sideload vane assembly  corresponds roughly to values of \u0398 between \u0398and \u0398(exclusive of \u0398) on the graph. The graph shows acute pressure rises that generally correspond to when the fluid passed each of the vanes A-E in the first angular region, with the pressure rise being greatest at locations further from the centerline CL. At the smallest radii, nearest the centerline CL, the effects of the vanes A-E is less pronounced. However, because of radial fluid movement during operation of the turbopump , causing fluid to move away from the vanes A-E, the number of acute rises in fluid pressure did not strictly correspond to the number of vanes (five). The angle of radial loading \u0398in the present example was approximately 60\u00b0 with respect to the arbitrarily selected reference point shown on . \u0398can be calculated according to the following equation, where P is the pressure, r is a variable for the radial location and \u0398 is the variable in the horizontal axis of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u0398","mn":"4"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mi":["P","\u0398"],"mo":["*","*","*"],"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u0398"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mi":"\u0398","mo":["*","*"],"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u0398"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"The magnitude of FBNL (i.e., the net radial load on the first bearing set ) was 185.519 kg (409 lbs.), and that value was obtained by integrating the area under the plots of the graph of .","Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance, a sideload vane assembly according to the present invention can have a variety of vane and pocket configurations. Moreover, a fluid pump can utilize one or more sideload vane assemblies according to the present invention in a variety of locations. In addition, sideload vane assemblies according to the present invention can be used to reduce the net radial loads on components (e.g., bearings) of a fluid pump, as desired, by configuring the sideload vane assemblies to produce radial loads in opposition to existing radial loads."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
