---
title: System and method for sending and receiving images via wireless audio channels
abstract: A system and method for adding images to a wireless audio service. The invention is adapted for use in a system for wirelessly transmitting and receiving an audio data stream and includes an arrangement for providing an image and a mechanism for inserting the image into the data stream prior to transmission thereof. In the illustrative embodiment, a third arrangement is provided for receiving and decoding the data stream to extract and a fourth arrangement is included for displaying the image while the audio signal is output. The fourth arrangement may be a digital radio, i.e., a radio adapted to process digital signals, such as a satellite radio, high definition radio, digital AM or other suitable primarily audio wireless communication system. In a specific embodiment, the invention includes an arrangement for automatically inserting a selected image in the stream. In the illustrative embodiment, this arrangement includes a source selector, an image editor coupled to the source selector, an image resizer, an image compressor, and an arrangement for allowing a user to add text, color, style and/or other information to an image output by the compressor. The invention further includes an arrangement for adding images from an archive to the stream and a graphical picture show composer for providing an image queue. An image server is included for feeding the image queue to the output data stream provided by a system server such as an XM or Sirius satellite radio server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08121534&OS=08121534&RS=08121534
owner: Sirius XM Radio Inc.
number: 08121534
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060927
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Illustrative Message Synchronization Packet Description"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention relates to communications systems and methods. Specifically, the present invention relates to systems and methods for broadcasting content via wireless networks.","2. Description of the Related Art","Numerous over-the-air (wireless) audio broadcast services are available for the consumer including conventional AM and FM radio and, more recently, satellite (e.g. XM) radio. Additional service offerings are in development including High Definition Radio and Digital AM radio.","Currently, these offerings are audio only. That is, conventional wireless broadcast technologies provide only an audio signal for the consumer.","However, these audio only services would be enhanced by the transmission and display of visual information, including images, that are synchronized and relevant to associated audio services.","Unfortunately, current and planned audio only wireless broadcast systems have no means for providing such visual imagery. Accordingly, a need exists in the art for a system or method for providing images synchronized and relevant to associated audio program content in a wireless audio broadcast network.","The need in the art is addressed by the system and method of the present invention. The invention is adapted for use in a system for wirelessly transmitting and receiving an audio data stream and includes an arrangement for providing an image and a mechanism for inserting the image into the data stream prior to transmission thereof.","In the illustrative embodiment, a third arrangement is provided for receiving and decoding the data stream to extract and a fourth arrangement is included for displaying the image while the audio signal is output. The fourth arrangement may be a digital radio, i.e., a radio adapted to process digital signals, such as a satellite radio, high definition radio, digital AM or other suitable primarily audio wireless communication system.","In a specific embodiment, the invention includes an arrangement for automatically inserting a selected image in the stream. In the illustrative embodiment, this arrangement includes a source selector, an image editor coupled to the source selector, an image resizer, an image compressor, and an arrangement for allowing a user to add text, color, style and\/or other information to an image output by the compressor. The invention further includes an arrangement for adding images from an archive to the stream and a graphical picture show composer for providing an image queue.","An image server is included for feeding the image queue to the output data stream provided by a system server such as an XM or Sirius satellite radio server.","While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications, it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications, applications, and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the present invention would be of significant utility.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","a"],"b":["10","12","12","14","12","16","18","20","22","26","28","30","24"]},"Selected images from the cameras may also be sent to a video recorder for storage. Images from a digital camera  and stock images may be stored offline (via storage elements  and . The browser  allows a user to select individual images to be streamed in accordance with the present teachings. The storage elements may also supply video from a camcorder  or a source of stock video . The stored video may be edited via a player\/editor  and individual frames therefrom may be captured manually via manual frame capture system .","Images from the selected source are output by the source selector  to an image editor . The image is then sized for a desired format by an image resizer . Current typical image sizes are 130 by 130 pixels to 176 by 220 pixels. In the illustrative embodiment, the images are formatted in accordance with a compressed JPEG format at 176 by 220 pixels.","In practice the editor  and resizer  are implemented in software running on a microprocessor in response to inputs from a user via the interface . The image is then compressed by a conventional image compressor . As is known in the art, the image compressor  may be implemented in software or in hardware. The output of the compressor is input to routine or element  adapted to effect picture message composition with additional input from a user with respect to text, color, time duration etc. The composite image is fed to a real-time graphical picture show composer . The picture show composer allows a user to arrange the output order of the images in the queue. The images are output via a picture show server . These images may be stored in an archive  and selected for output via a scheduler  and the multiplexer . The multiplexer  allows a user to select between a currently composed show via the output of the Real-time Graphical Picture Show Composer  and a program stored in the archive  via the user interface .","The system  is adapted for use with a baseline wireless audio system . In the illustrative embodiment, the baseline audio system  is a satellite digital audio radio service (SDARS) system without imaging support. However, those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the present teachings are not limited thereto. The present invention is not limited to the baseline system shown. The invention may be used with other baseline systems without departing from the scope of the present teachings.","In the illustrative embodiment, the baseline system  includes numerous audio only channels  and a first audio channel  to which transmitted image (visual) data (from ) is synchronized and associated.","Each audio channel includes a Source , a Song\/Program Scheduler , and an Audio Encoder . The Source  can be a stored database of audio songs\/programs or can be an audio stream provided by some external audio source. Along with each song\/program in the source is PAD data (Program Associated Data). The common PAD info provided by the Baseline (Audio Only) system is Artist Text Labels and Song Text Labels (low bandwidth data). Specific Songs\/Programs from the Source are scheduled and requested for transmission by the Song\/Program Scheduler . Upon a specific Song\/Program being requested by the Song\/Program Scheduler for transmission, the Source  begins output of the audio data along with the PAD data for this Song\/Program. The audio data is sent to the Audio Encoder  which compresses the audio data to minimize over-the-air bandwidth usage.","The Service Layer  receives the output of each Audio Encoder (along with PAD data) and also receives the output of other non-audio Service Types, as in the Image Data from the Data Server . These inputs are the Service Components. The Service Layer generates the Payload Channels that carry the Service Components. The Payload Channel is shown in , and ","The Transport Layer  receives the Payload Channels from the Service Layer . The Transport Layer applies forward error correction, data interleaving and multiplexing of the Payload Channels into the 432 msec Frame shown in ","The Physical Layer  receives input from the Transport Layer . The Physical Layer  defines the physical transport signal including modulation. The User Interface  programs the Song\/Program Scheduler  (for each Audio Channel) so that the desired sequence of Songs\/Programs are played at the desired times. The same User Interface  also programs the Image Show Scheduler  so that desired Picture\/Image Shows are scheduled to begin at the desired times, and thus synchronized with the associated audio channel Song\/Program. This method of audio-to-image synchronization is depicted in and is described in more detail further below.","Another method of audio-to-image synchronization is as follows: The User Interface  programs the Image Show Scheduler  to start playing specific Picture\/Image Shows whenever the audio source outputs a specific PAD data pattern i.e. specific Artist and\/or Song Text Labels. The Image Show Scheduler  monitors the PAD output of the specified audio source for the specified Artist and\/or Song Labels. When a matching Labels are detected, the Image Show Scheduler  starts the playing of the specified Picture\/Image Show. This method of audio-to-image synchronization is depicted in and is described in more detail further below.","In , the sub-system consisting of all components in the chain leading up to and including the Real-time Graphical Picture Show Composer  is referred to herein as a \u201cPicture Show Studio\u201d. An overall system that contains multiple Picture Shows linked to multiple Audio Channels is shown in . In this figure, the Picture Show Server  is extended to receive image data input from multiple Picture Show Studios  or multiple archived Picture Shows as selected by the source multiplexers . The Picture Show Server  combines the image data from the multiple input sources via a Statistical Multiplexer (Mux) , and outputs the image data onto a single output stream to the Data Server . This output stream to the Data Server, and into the system  as a Data Service, is a fixed bit rate data stream. The bit rate for this Data Service is configured to a value suitable to handle the average bit rate requirements of all Picture Shows currently playing. Each Picture Show image data stream can be configured to maintain a different average bit rate. In the illustrative embodiment, the Picture Show Server enforces a rule that the combined average bit rates of all the currently playing Picture Shows do not exceed the fixed bit rate available for the Data Service. The Statistical Mux  handles the cases where the instantaneous combined bit rate of all the currently playing Picture Shows exceeds the available fixed Data Service bit rate. Currently available statistical multiplexing methods are used to accomplish this, including longer term buffering of input image data, and short-term reduction of bit rate by the dropping of image frames or increasing image data compression at the expense of image quality.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","b","f","g"],"b":["66","14","66","62","62","98","102","69"]},"The images output by the picture show server are inserted into the digital data stream as illustrated in -and output by a wireless radio data server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a ","b":["80","58","80","82","84","80"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","b"],"b":["85","85","80","86","88","80","86","88","62"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"c ","b":["100","69","69"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 3(","FIG. 3("],"i":["a","b"],"b":["200","202","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 3(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3("],"i":["c","c","c","c","c"],"b":["210","100","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 3(","FIGS. 3(","FIG. 5"],"i":["d","a","c"],"b":"416"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 3(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3("],"i":["e","b","c","e"],"b":["211","202","204","211","200","211","220","210","230"]},"As shown in ), () and (), each Payload Channel contains a SCH (Service Control Header) ,  and  respectively. The SCH provides information used to de-multiplex the respective Payload Channel into individual Service Components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3("],"i":["f ","f","b","d"],"b":["90","92","94","94","96","98","213"]},"As illustrated in , the Picture Show Service reference message  correlates audio service components  with image data messages . The reference message  is used by the source decoder  to associate the picture shows with the audio components. That is, on request from the microcontroller, the data component extractor  extracts and outputs a raw bit stream to the micro-controller  of  as discussed more fully below.","As discussed more fully below, in an alternative embodiment, the invention associates images to Artists\/Song Labels by means of the Picture Show Label Reference Message  as shown in ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3(","FIG. 7("],"i":["g ","e","b"],"b":"101"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["f ","g "],"b":["3","102","98"]},"In the illustrative implementation, the payload channel is transmitted over the air via a satellite network  such as that depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["300","312","314","310","400","402","404"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 6 and 7"],"b":["400","410","414","416","414","416","434","432","422","422","422","422","422","426","426"]},"The image decoder  converts the data into a format suitable for display and outputs the signal to a display . The decoder also interfaces with a memory . The memory  is provided to allow the user to store audio and image data in response to input from a user via an interface . The decoder  stores and retrieves images from memory as appropriate based on the signals decoded from the channel. The memory also provides a means of storing images that are part of a Picture Show that are transmitted at a slower rate than the rate intended for playback. The receiver  caches all these images to the memory  over a relatively long period of time. After all of the images of a Picture Show are acquired, the Picture Show may then be displayed on user request or based on signals decoded from the channel. When the playback rate approaches 66 milliseconds (15 frames per second) and greater, the Picture Show may be categorized as a \u2018video\u2019 application. As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive system is enabled to advantageously transmit and display video information over conventionally audio only channels as well as a slide show per se.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","422","423","425"]},"As shown in , the software includes code for initializing the system and resetting a message buffer at step . At step  the system sets the state to search for a message sync pulse. At step , the system searches for a next application data packet in the transparent data. As shown in ), each packet is an SID packet and has a packet header, application data (with the Rolling Image messages) and a cyclic redundancy check bit or bits.","Next, at steps  and , the software  performs a CRC check. If the packets pass the CRC check (i.e. no bit errors), then at step , the state is checked. If the system is still in \u2018synch search\u2019 state, then at step  the system searches the application packet for a sync word. If the sync word is not found (step ) or if the CRC check fails at step , then the system returns to step  and continues with the message buffer reset. If the synch word if found at step , then the state is set to \u2018FoundSync\u2019 and at step , the message length field following the sync word is read. At step , the application packet payload is appended to the message buffer. Next, at step , the accumulated message length is updated at step . Clearly, these steps serve to accumulate application packets to generate a complete message. At step , the system checks to determine if the accumulated message length is equal to the total message length. If not, then it retrieves the next packet at step . If so, the message accumulation process is complete (step ) and a CRC check is performed on the message (step ).","At step , if the CRC check on the message fails, the message buffer is reset and the code returns to step  to retrieve the next data application packet. If, however, at step  the CRC check on the message passes, then at step , the Rolling Image message is parsed.","Next, at step , the system checks to determine if the Rolling Image message is a content type message. If so, then at step , the message is image data and is stored in a Content Buffer. Then, at step , the Picture Show Player is informed of receipt of a new Content message.","If at step  the system determines that the message is a control type message, then at step  the message is stored in a Control Information table. At step , the Picture Show Player is informed of receipt of new control information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 5"],"i":["a ","a","a "],"b":["422","600","424","426"]},"Here, at step , the current picture show control information (i.e., from the reference message ) is procured. Next, at step , the current service ID for the current user selected audio channel is obtained. Then, at step , the system checks to determine if Picture Show mode is enabled on the current service ID. If so, at step , the system  acquires a picture show ID from the reference message . If not, then the system returns to a wait state before step .","Next, at step , the system checks to determine whether a new Picture Show Image message is received with the Picture Show ID acquired in step . Here, the system is checking the image message buffer for an image with the Picture Show ID identified in step . If so, then the image is acquired in step , decoded in step  and displayed in step . If not, then the system returns to a wait state before step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"],"i":"b ","b":["700","710","712","714","716","718","716","720","722","724","726","728"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["436","434"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["1. Rolling Images associated with long duration Audio Programs (Long Duration Rolling Images):\n    \n    ","2. Rolling Images associated with Short Duration Audio Programs (Short Duration Rolling Images):\n    \n    "]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Field",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Length"]},{"entry":["Field Name","(bits)","Value\/Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Message Sync Layer"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Message Packet Start Sync","48","Value = ASCII $XMMX$"]},{"entry":"Word"},{"entry":["Message Packet Length","16","Total length of this Message. Packet in bytes."]},{"entry":[{},{},"Value = 1 to 65,535 bytes"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Message Application Layer"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Message Type ID","\u20028",{}]},{"entry":["Message Content","Var"]},{"entry":["Message CRC","16","16-bit CRC for overall message. Same polynomial as DSC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"CRC. Intended to reduce probability of message falsing (i.e."]},{"entry":[{},{},"data content coincidently matches the Message Start Sync"]},{"entry":[{},{},"pattern and all other data length fields also match)."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":[{},{},{}]},"Picture Show Image Message\n\n","Picture Show Instance Info Message\n\n","Picture Show Static Info Message\n\n","Picture Show Service Reference Message\n\n","Picture Show Category Reference Message\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0105"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Message Type","Picture Show Image Class1 Message"]},{"entry":"Identifier"},{"entry":["Picture Show Unique","Unique ID for the Picture Show to which this Image Message belongs."]},{"entry":"ID"},{"entry":["Image Index Number","Index number. Increments for each new image of for the Picture Show."]},{"entry":[{},"Also serves as a Sequence Number. For long Image update intervals,"]},{"entry":[{},"the same image may be retransmitted at some shorter interval. In this"]},{"entry":[{},"case, this Index Number remains the same. The Radio can choose to"]},{"entry":[{},"skip processing these duplicate messages. The timestamp will also"]},{"entry":[{},"remain the same as the original\/initial image for these repeated images."]},{"entry":[{},"Concatenation of the \u201cPicture Show Unique ID\u201d with this \u201cImage"]},{"entry":[{},"Index Number\u201d gives a \u201cUnique Image ID\u201d."]},{"entry":["Max Display Time","Maximum Time Duration for which to display the image. e.g. if no"]},{"entry":["Duration","new images are received to replace this image."]},{"entry":[{},"Units in seconds (1 to 65,535 sec)"]},{"entry":[{},"0 = Unlimited duration."]},{"entry":["Delta Timestamp","Optimal display time for this image. Represented as an offset time"]},{"entry":[{},"from the \u201cPicture Show Start Time\u201d (from the Picture Show Reference"]},{"entry":[{},"Message). Units of 1,296 msec (XM 432 msec frame \u00d7 3)."]},{"entry":[{},"Value = 0x3FFFF specifies no timestamp and the Radio can display"]},{"entry":[{},"this image as soon as it is received."]},{"entry":["Image Transition","Transition this Image from the previous image using this Effect."]},{"entry":["Effect","0 = None"]},{"entry":[{},"1 = Slide"]},{"entry":[{},"2 = Wipe"]},{"entry":[{},"3 = Through Black"]},{"entry":[{},"4 = Through White"]},{"entry":[{},"5 = Inset"]},{"entry":[{},"6 = Iris"]},{"entry":[{},"7 = Pixellate"]},{"entry":[{},"8 = Blinds"]},{"entry":[{},"Values = 9 to 31 TBD"]},{"entry":["Image Content","0 = GIF"]},{"entry":["Subcategory Type","1 = JPEG"]},{"entry":["Title Text Length","Length of Title text string in characters"]},{"entry":[{},"0 = No header text."]},{"entry":[{},"Max = 40 characters"]},{"entry":["Body Text Length","Length of Text String in characters"]},{"entry":[{},"0 = No text."]},{"entry":[{},"Max = 1023 characters."]},{"entry":["Title Text String","Title Text String"]},{"entry":[{},"Plain text format. No Null termination."]},{"entry":["Body Text String","Body Text String"]},{"entry":[{},"HTML text format."]},{"entry":["Text Color","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":["Text Background","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":"Color"},{"entry":["Text Border Color","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":["Image","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":"Border Color"},{"entry":["Outer Image Frame","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":"Border Color"},{"entry":["Image","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":["Background Color","The Image Background Color is relevant for Transparent GIF"]},{"entry":["Outer Image Frame","24-bit RGB"]},{"entry":"Background Color"},{"entry":["Image Width","Width in pixels"]},{"entry":[{},"Max = 260"]},{"entry":["Image Height","Height in pixels"]},{"entry":[{},"Max = 196"]},{"entry":["Length of Variable","Length of Variable Data Field in Bytes (Min 0, Max 255)"]},{"entry":["Field","This section allows future parameters to be added to this message."]},{"entry":[{},"Legacy Radios will skip this section, while newer Radios may process"]},{"entry":[{},"this section."]},{"entry":["Variable Data","Min 0, Max 255 bytes"]},{"entry":["Image Data Length","Length in bytes for the image content data."]},{"entry":[{},"0 = No Image (text only)."]},{"entry":[{},"Max = 40,000 bytes ~4:1 compression for max. 260 \u00d7 196 image."]},{"entry":["Image Data Content","Length is variable. Min Len = 0 byte. Max Len is 40,000 bytes."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Of note in the above Picture Show Image Message structure is the Image Transition Effect field. This field specifies to the receiver  the image transition effect to apply between the currently displayed Picture Show Image and the newly received Picture Show Image that will be displayed next.","The present teaching has disclosed the delivery of visual\/image data and methods of associating and synchronizing this image data to Audio Channels in connection with an existing conventional radio system. In the primary use case, this visual\/image data is relatively slowly updated to minimize bandwidth usage in audio centric systems, e.g. 5 second image update period for a Picture Show. However, as mentioned above, using the same methods described here and with additional bit rate allocated to the utilized Transparent Data Service Component, faster image updates may be implemented. When these image update periods approach 66 msec (15 frames\/sec), a video application is achieved using the same methods described. That is, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive system is enabled to advantageously transmit and display video information over conventionally audio only channels as well as a slide show per se.","Thus, the present invention has been described herein with reference to a particular embodiment for a particular application. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the present teachings will recognize additional modifications, applications and embodiments within the scope thereof.","It is therefore intended by the appended claims to cover any and all such applications, modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.","Accordingly,"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3(","i":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3(","FIGS. 3("],"i":["d","a","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"g "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"],"i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
