---
title: Previewing user interfaces and other aspects
abstract: User interfaces for browsing, searching, and/or previewing are described. In one embodiment, a method includes call a preview generator to generate an initial preview in response to receiving an input, receiving a content to be displayed from the preview generator, displaying the content as the initial preview, and displaying and scrolling concurrently an enhanced preview to a next item in a representation of items in a search result in response to an input to directionally move. Other embodiments are also described, and computer readable media and apparatuses are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058337&OS=09058337&RS=09058337
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09058337
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071022
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE DESCRIPTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Modern data processing systems, such as general purpose computer systems, allow the users of such systems to create a variety of different types of data files. For example, a typical user of a data processing system may create text files with a word processing program such as Microsoft Word or may create an image file with an image processing program such as Adobe's PhotoShop. Numerous other types of files are capable of being created or modified, edited, and otherwise used by one or more users for a typical data processing system. The large number of the different types of files that can be created or modified can present a challenge to a typical user who is seeking to find a particular file which has been created.","Modern data processing systems often include a file management system which allows a user to place files in various directories or subdirectories (e.g. folders) and allows a user to give the file a name. Further, these file management systems often allow a user to find a file by searching for the file's name, or the date of creation, or the date of modification, or the type of file. An example of such a file management system is the Finder program which operates on Macintosh computers from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif. Another example of a file management system program is the Windows Explorer program which operates on the Windows operating system from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash. Both the Finder program and the Windows Explorer program include a find command which allows a user to search for files by various criteria including a file name or a date of creation or a date of modification or the type of file. However, this search capability searches through information which is the same for each file, regardless of the type of file. Thus, for example, the searchable data for a Microsoft Word file is the same as the searchable data for an Adobe PhotoShop file, and this data typically includes the file name, the type of file, the date of creation, the date of last modification, the size of the file and certain other parameters which may be maintained for the file by the file management system.","Certain presently existing application programs allow a user to maintain data about a particular file. This data about a particular file may be considered metadata because it is data about other data. This metadata for a particular file may include information about the author of a file, a summary of the document, and various other types of information. A program such as Microsoft Word may automatically create some of this data when a user creates a file and the user may add additional data or edit the data by selecting the \u201cproperty sheet\u201d from a menu selection in Microsoft Word. The property sheets in Microsoft Word allow a user to create metadata for a particular file or document. However, in existing systems, a user is not able to search for metadata across a variety of different applications using one search request from the user. Furthermore, existing systems can perform one search for data files, but this search does not also include searching through metadata for those files.","Certain existing file management systems, such as the Finder from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif., allow for the display of a first representation, such as an icon, of a file in one panel of a column view while also displaying a second representation, such as a preview of the file, in another panel of the column view. A user may select the first representation and may select an up or down arrow (on a keyboard or through a displayed arrow icon) and in turn cause scrolling through icons in the one panel while displaying different previews in the other panel. This user interface is for browsing files and does not display search results. Results from a search query into the file management systems often provide for items that may or may not be relevant to the search. Therefore, obtaining previews of items to check for the relevancy of the items may be desirable.","Methods for managing data in a data processing system and systems for managing data are described herein.","In one embodiment, a system may display, or otherwise present, a list (or other data structure) which shows an initial preview (e.g. icons or thumbnails) of items in the list, and the system may present an enhanced preview of at least one of the items in the list, such as a first item, and the system may further present another enhanced preview of another item (a second item) in the list in response to a movement or scroll input. The another enhanced preview for the second item, in one embodiment, is generated and displayed while the original enhanced preview for the first item is concurrently replaced with the initial preview for the first item. Further movement or scroll inputs, in one embodiment, repeat this action so that it appears that enhanced previews are presented sequentially for each of the items in the list in response to the further movement or scroll inputs. This sequential presentation may resemble scrolling within a window. The initial preview may be a standard icon used to show a particular type of file (e.g. an icon for an html file), where each file of that particular type uses the standard icon to represent or depict that file, or the initial preview may be a small thumbnail which shows the content of the particular file or item associated with the initial preview or it may be a file name or other indicia of the file or item. The enhanced preview for a particular item normally shows more information than the initial preview; for example, an enhanced preview of an item may show a large thumbnail of the content of the item (e.g. larger than a thumbnail shown by the initial preview of the item if the initial preview is a thumbnail) and may also show additional information (such as \u201cto:\u201d and \u201cfrom:\u201d fields if the item is an email, etc.) beyond what is shown by the initial preview of the item. The list (or other data structure) may be a view of items in a data structure (e.g. a database or a folder of a file system or a list of items retrieved from a search based on a search query); the list may result from a user browsing through folders in a file system program (e.g. the Finder in a Macintosh OS) or from a user browsing through items in a cover flow view or from a user browsing through items in a search result (presented in response to a search query).","A method according to one embodiment of the invention may include presenting (e.g. displaying) a first initial preview of a first item and a second initial preview of a second item in a list, or other data structure, and presenting a first enhanced preview of the first item which replaces the first initial preview in the list while the first enhanced preview is presented, and presenting, in response to a scroll or move command, a second enhanced preview of the second item which replaces the second initial preview in the list while the second enhanced preview is presented. The move or scroll command, in one embodiment, appears to cause, from a user's perspective, the first enhanced preview to be replaced (on a presentation on a display) with the first initial preview and to cause the second initial preview to be replaced (on the presentation on the display) with the second enhanced preview. The first item and the second item may be adjacent each other in the list or other data structure, and the scroll or move command appears to move a focus of an enhanced preview feature through the list from the first item to the second item and, if further scroll or move commands are received, through at least a portion of the rest of the list. The scroll or move commands may be caused by a user's activation of an up arrow icon or down arrow icon on a display or the activation of an up arrow key or a down arrow key on a keyboard or the activation of other user interface components known in the art and the like. The list (or other data structure) may be a view of items, such as a view of items in a folder, or other data structure, in a file system or a list of items retrieved from a search based on a search query; the list may result from a user browsing through folders in a file system program (e.g. the Finder in a Macintosh OS) or from a user browsing through items in a cover flow view or from a user browsing through (e.g. viewing) items in a search result.","A method of operating and presenting a user interface in one embodiment includes receiving an input which specifies a request to present an enhanced preview for a first item in a displayed data structure and receiving a movement or scroll command and, in response to the movement or scroll command, displaying an enhanced preview for a second item in the displayed data structure; the method may further include replacing, in response to the movement or scroll input, the enhanced preview of the first item with another representation of the first item in the displayed data structure. The method may further include sequentially displaying enhanced previews for additional items in the displayed data structure in response to corresponding additional movement or scroll commands. In one implementation, the sequential displaying of enhanced previews is accompanied by scrolling of the displayed data structure within a window. The scrolling may also include fixing a position within the window for each sequentially displayed enhanced preview, and this position may be an area in the middle of the window in one embodiment or may be an area near the top or bottom of the window in another embodiment. The method may further include calling a preview generator, which uses an extendible plug-in architecture, in response to each movement or scroll command, and the preview generator, in response to the calling, causes the generation of the preview and provides the generated preview, which is an enhanced preview for the current item in the displayed data structure, to the software application (e.g. the Finder or Spotlight, etc.) which made the call to the preview generator. The software application receives the enhanced preview and causes it to be displayed and will replace the enhanced preview with another representation of the current item and make another call to the preview generator in response to another movement or scroll input.","The foregoing methods and systems may be implemented with a machine readable storage medium which stores executable program instructions which are configured to implement one or more of these methods.  shows an example of one of these methods.","A method of managing data in one exemplary embodiment includes displaying a first display area for displaying two-dimensional (2-D) representations of documents matching a search query, the first display area configured to display content of the documents which can have a plurality of different types of content including at least one of text-based content and a folder, and the method further includes displaying a second display area for selecting a selected document to be displayed in the first display area. In at least certain embodiments, the content of the selected document can be zoomed from the first display area to display an enlarged view or may be presented as multiple pages which are selectable such that the document can be viewed one page at a time or several pages at a time. In certain embodiments, the first display area and the second display area are adjacent each other in the same moveable, closeable, resizeable and minimizeable window, which includes user interface objects to receive user inputs to move the window, close the window, resize the window, maximize the window and minimize the window. Further, the window may include various user interface objects which allow the user to pick between different views, including a view which includes the first display area and the second display area. In at least certain embodiments, the first display area may be referred to as a \u201ccover flow\u201d view area and the second display area may be referred to as a \u201clist display\u201d view area. In at least certain embodiments, the method may include the performance of a search through metadata for various different kinds of documents, as well as an index database which includes a full-text inverted database containing the full text of the content of the documents within a data processing system. In certain embodiments, the documents may be organized and stored in a hierarchical file system, and a user interface program, such as the Finder from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif., or Windows Explorer from Microsoft of Redmond, Wash., may be provided to allow the user to manage the location, etc. of the documents and files maintained by the hierarchical filing system (HFS).","In at least certain embodiments, a user may select a document in the list view and this causes the documents in the cover flow view to scroll in order to show the same document in the selected document position of a cover flow view. In certain embodiments, scrolling of the documents in the cover flow view is linked to the scrolling of documents in the list display view area such that scrolling in one area is matched by and coordinated with scrolling in the other area. In at least certain embodiments, the list display view area displays at least a portion of the documents matching the search query, and the order of the documents in the list view area matches the order of the documents shown in the cover flow view area which also shows documents matching the search query. The cover flow view area typically includes one set of documents on one side of the selected document and another set of documents on the other side of the selected document; the spacing between the documents is not uniform. In at least certain embodiments, documents on the left side of the selected document appear to be facing towards the right and therefore towards the selected document, while documents on the right side of the selected document appear to be facing towards the left side and therefore towards the selected document. The apparent direction each set of documents faces may be achieved by providing a perspective view in which one side of the document is longer than another side of the document even though, in fact, the underlying document has sides that are equal and parallel.","According to another aspect of the inventions described herein, a method of managing data in one exemplary embodiment includes displaying a first display area for displaying two-dimensional representations of at least a portion of files and folders in a hierarchical file system, the first display area configured to display content of the files in the first display area, and displaying a second display area for selecting a selected document to be displayed in the first display area, wherein the second display area displays the two-dimensional representations of at least a portion of the files and folders in the hierarchical file system. In this method, the first display area and the second display area may be a cover flow view area and a list display view area, respectively, each of which are adjacent to each other in the same window which is moveable, resizeable, closeable, minimizeable, and maximizeable. The window may include various user interface objects which allow a user to close, minimize, maximize, resize, or move the window. Further, the window may include user interface objects which allow a user to input various commands for operating on the files in the hierarchical file system, such as commands to move a file in the hierarchical file system (HFS), or create a copy of the file in the HFS, or delete a file, or create a new folder in the HFS or move a folder in the HFS or create a copy of the folder or delete the folder or move a file from a first folder to a second folder, etc. Each view area, such as the cover flow view area and the list display view area, may include scroll control user interface objects, such as a scroll bar and scroll arrows for allowing the user to scroll the views in each display area. The scrolling may be linked or not linked depending on the implementation.","According to another aspect of the inventions described, herein, a method of managing data in one exemplary embodiment includes displaying an icon of a folder, wherein the icon of the folder is at least partially transparent to show icons at least partially within the folder, and displaying a set of icons at least partially within the icon of the folder. In at least certain embodiments, the icons may rotate within the icon of the folder to display, after a sufficient amount of rotating, all viewable files in the folder, and wherein the folder represents a subdirectory in a hierarchical file system. In at least certain embodiments, the set of icons are animated to display at least a subset of the icons over a period of time. The set of icons may be animated by one of rotating, over time, the icons in the set of icons, or shuffling, over time, the icons in the set of icons, or displaying momentarily and sequentially each of the icons in the set of icons, etc. The icons in the set of icons in the folder may be at least one of graphical images or thumbnails of content of files represented by the icons.","Another method of managing data in one exemplary embodiment includes displaying an icon of a folder which includes files represented by the icons, the files being in a hierarchical file system and displaying automatically, without user interaction with the icon of the folder, an animation presenting a content or representation of each of the files, wherein a subset of the files is shown after a sufficient period of time. The animation may present the content or representation at least partially within the icon of the folder. The icon of the folder may or may not be transparent and the animation may present the content or representation on the face of the icon of the folder if the folder is not transparent. The animation may be one of rotating, over time, the content or representation of each of the files or shuffling, over time, the content or representation of each of the files or other mechanisms for displaying, over time, the various icons in the file.","According to another aspect of the inventions described herein, methods and software architectures provide previews of files, such as previews of content of the files without launching the applications which created those files. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a first call, through a first application programming interface (API), to obtain a preview of content of a file, the first call being made by a first application program and being received by a preview generator, such as a preview generator daemon which is provided by operating system software; and the method also includes generating a request (which may be a call through a second API) to obtain a first software routine, such as a first plug-in, from a set of software routines, such as a set of plug-ins which may be extensible, wherein the first plug-in is configured to process a file type of the file to produce content in a format which can be displayed by the first application program. This method allows, at least in certain embodiments, for previews of content to be provided to the first application program for a wide variety of different file types (e.g. PDF, HTML, Visio, AutoCAD, PPT, DOC, text, XLS (Excel), JPG, and other file types noted herein, etc.) without requiring that the applications which created these files be launched in order to view the content. The first application program may be one of a set of programs including at least one user level program which use this method to present previews of content; for example, the first application program may be a file management software program (e.g. the Finder from Apple Inc. or Windows Explorer from Microsoft) or a search software program (e.g. Spotlight from Apple Inc.) or an email software program or a calendar software program or an instant messaging software program or other software programs.","In at least certain embodiments, the first application program (e.g. the Finder or Spotlight) displays an initial preview of the file in a first view which is one of a list view or an icon view or a cover flow view and wherein the initial preview is not configured to be interactive, within the first view, in response to user inputs and wherein the content produced through the first plug-in is configured to interactively display content of the file (e.g. page through or scroll through or browse through the content or zoom or resize the content or playback the content, such as playback a movie) in response to user inputs. This interactive display of content may also occur in the first view or zoom out from the first view or be layered over the first view. The first application program may also display, while displaying the initial preview within the first view, other initial previews of other files and data (e.g. data within a file such as an address information within a contact\/address book database) within the first view. Further, the interactive content displayed through the first plug-in may be displayed in the first view while the other initial previews are also being displayed within the first view.","In at least certain embodiments, a method may further include generating a second call to a file system program to obtain an identifier of the file type of the file and receiving the identifier of the file type in response to the second call, wherein the identifier is used to select the first plug-in from the set of plug-ins.","In at least certain embodiments, the content produced through the first plug-in is displayable by the first application program without further conversion of data; in other embodiments, the content produced through the first plug-in may be in a standard format (e.g. HTML, text, PDF, JPG) which can be processed through the first application to generate displayed content.","Software architectures are also described, and these may include a preview generator daemon which interfaces with applications (e.g. Finder) which make calls to the preview generator daemon through a first application programming interface (API). The preview generator daemon may, in response to those calls, request plug-ins to provide the content of the files for a preview of that content without launching the applications which created those files.","Other aspects of the present inventions include various data processing systems which perform these methods and machine readable media which cause a data processing system to perform various methods described herein.","The subject invention will be described with reference to numerous details set forth below, and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the invention. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However, in certain instances, well known or conventional details are not described in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention in detail.","The present description includes material protected by copyrights, such as illustrations of graphical user interface images. The owners of the copyrights, including the assignee of the present invention, hereby reserve their rights, including copyright, in these materials. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever. Copyright Apple Inc. 2007.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"]},"As shown in , the computer system , which is a form of a data processing system, includes a bus  which is coupled to a microprocessor(s)  and a ROM (Read Only Memory)  and volatile RAM  and a non-volatile memory . The microprocessor  may be a microprocessor from Intel or a G3 or G4 microprocessor from Motorola, Inc. or one or more G5 microprocessors from IBM. The bus  interconnects these various components together and also interconnects these components , , , and  to a display controller and display device  and to peripheral devices such as input\/output (I\/O) devices which may be mice, keyboards, modems, network interfaces, printers and other devices which are well known in the art. Typically, the input\/output devices  are coupled to the system through input\/output controllers . The volatile RAM (Random Access Memory)  is typically implemented as dynamic RAM (DRAM) which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. The mass storage  is typically a magnetic hard drive or a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive or a DVD RAM or other types of memory systems which maintain data (e.g. large amounts of data) even after power is removed from the system. Typically, the mass storage  will also be a random access memory although this is not required. While  shows that the mass storage  is a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system, it will be appreciated that the present invention may utilize a non-volatile memory which is remote from the system, such as a network storage device which is coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface. The bus  may include one or more buses connected to each other through various bridges, controllers and\/or adapters as is well known in the art. In one embodiment the I\/O controller  includes a USB (Universal Serial Bus) adapter for controlling USB peripherals and an IEEE 1394 controller for IEEE 1394 compliant peripherals.","It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the present invention may be embodied, at least in part, in software. That is, the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor, such as a microprocessor, executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory, such as ROM , RAM , mass storage  or a remote storage device. In various embodiments, hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the present invention. Thus, the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system. In addition, throughout this description, various functions and operations are described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However, those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor, such as the microprocessor .","Capturing and Use of Metadata Across a Variety of Application Programs",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 5","FIG. 2"],"b":["201","203","205","207","207"]},"The method of  may be implemented for programs which do not store or provide metadata. In this circumstance, a portion of the operating system provides for the capture of the metadata from the variety of different programs even though the programs have not been designed to provide or capture metadata. For those programs which do allow a user to create metadata for a particular document, certain embodiments of the present invention may allow the exporting back of captured metadata back into data files for applications which maintain metadata about their data files.","The method of  allows information about a variety of different files created by a variety of different application programs to be accessible by a system wide searching facility, which is similar to the way in which prior art versions of the Finder or Windows Explorer can search for file names, dates of creation, etc. across a variety of different application programs. Thus, the metadata for a variety of different files created by a variety of different application programs can be accessed through an extension of an operating system, and an example of such an extension is shown in  as a metadata processing software which interacts with other components of the system and will be described further below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["301","331"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"11"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Copied",{}]},{"entry":["Item","Parent in",{},{},{},"Multi-",{},"User","Get-","with","App"]},{"entry":["name","hierarchy","Attribute name","Description\/Notes","CFType","value","Localized","settable","table","copy","viewable"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Item","n\/a","Authors","Who created or","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contributed to the",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contents of this item",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Comment","A free form text","CFString","No","No","Yes","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"comment",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ContentType","This is the type that is","CFString","No","?","No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"determined by UTI",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ContentTypes","This is the inheritance of","CFString","Yes","?","No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the UTI system",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CreatedDate","When was this item","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"created",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"DisplayName","The name of the item as","CFString","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Yes","Finder (or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the user would like to",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Launch"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"read it. Very well may",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Services)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"be the file name, but it",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"may also be the subject",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of an e-mail message or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the full name of a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"person, for example.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords","This is a list words set","CFString","Yes","System-","Yes","Yes","Ask",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"by the user to identify",{},{},"provided",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"arbitrary sets of",{},{},"keywords",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"organization. The scope",{},{},"(if any)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is determined by the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"user and can be flexibly",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"used for any kind of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"organization. For",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"example, Family,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Hawaii, Project X, etc.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Contact","A list of contacts that","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Ask","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords","are associated with this",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document, beyond what",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is captured as Author.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"This may be a person",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"who's in the picture or a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document about a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"person or contact",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(performance review,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contract)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ModifiedDate","When this item was last","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"modified",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Rating","A relative rating (0 to 5","CFNumber","No","n\/a","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"value) on how important",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a particular item is to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"you, whether it's a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"person, file or message",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"RelatedTos","A list of other items that","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"are arbitrarily grouped",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"together.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"TextContent","An indexed version of","CFString","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"any content text",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"UsedDates","Which days was the","CFDate","Yes","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"opened\/viewed\/played",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Content\/","Item","Copyright","Specifies the owner of","CFString","No","No","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":["Data",{},{},"this content, i.e.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Copyright Apple Inc.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CreatorApp","Keeps track of the","CFString","No","?","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"application that was used",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to create this document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(if it's known).",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Languages","The languages that this","CFString","Yes","Yes","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document is composed in",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(for either text or audio-",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"based media)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ParentalControl","A field that is used to","CFString","No","?","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"determine whether this is",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"kid-friendly content or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"not",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Publishers","The name or a person or","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"organization that",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"published this content.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PublishedDate","The original date that this","CFDate","No","No","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"content was published (if",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"it was), independent of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"created date.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Reviewers","A list of contacts who","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"have reviewed the",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contents of this file. This",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"would have to be set",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"explicitly by an",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"application.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Image","Data","ReviewStatus","Free form text that used","CFString","No","?","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to specify where the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document is in any",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"arbitrary review process",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"TimeEdited","Total time spent editing","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"WhereTos","Where did this go to, eg.","CFString","Yes","System-","?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"CD, printed, backedup",{},{},"provided",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"words",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"only (if",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"any)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"WhereFroms","Where did this come","CFString","Yes","System-","?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"from, e.g. camera, email,",{},{},"provided",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"web download, CD",{},{},"words",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"only (if",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"any)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"BitsPerSample","What is the bit depth of","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the image (8-bit, 16-bit,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"etc.)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ColorSpace","What color space model","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},"ColorSync"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is this document",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Utility?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"following",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ImageHeight","The height of the image","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in pixels",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ImageWidth","The width of the image","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in pixels",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ProfileName","The name of the color","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},"ColorSync"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"profile used with for",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Utility?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"image",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ResolutionWidth","Resolution width of this","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"image (i.e. dpi from a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"scanner)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ResolutionHeight","Resolution height of this","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"image (i.e. dpi from a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"scanner)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"LayerNames","For image formats that","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contain \u201cnamed\u201d layers",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(e.g. Photoshop files)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Aperture","The f-stop rating of the","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"camera when the image",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"was taken",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CameraMake","The make of the camera","CFString","No","Yes",{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"that was used to acquire",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"this image (e.g. Nikon)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CameraModel","The model of the camera","CFString","No","Yes",{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"used to acquire this",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"image (Coolpix 5700)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"DateTimeOriginal","Date\/time the picture","CFDate","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"was taken",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ExposureMode","Mode that was used for","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the exposure",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ExposureTime","Time that the lens was","CFDate","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"exposed while taking the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"picture",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Flash","This attribute is","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"overloaded with",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"information about red-",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"eye reduction. This is",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"not a binary value",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"GPS","Raw value received","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"from GPS device",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with photo",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"acquisition. It hasn't",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"necessarily been",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"translated to a user-",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"understandable location.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ISOSpeed","The ISO speed the","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"camera was set to when",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the image was acquired",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Orientation","The orientation of the","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"camera when the image",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"was acquired",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"WhiteBalance","The white balance","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"setting of the camera",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"when the picture was",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"taken",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"EXIFversion","The version of EXIF","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"that was used to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"generate the metadata",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"for the image",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Time-","Data","AcquisitionSources","The name or type of","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":["based",{},{},"device that used to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"acquire the media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Codecs","The codecs used to","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"encode\/decode the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"DeliveryType","FastStart or RTSP","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Duration","The length of time that","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the media lasts",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Streamable","Whether the content is","CFBoolean","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"prepared for purposes of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"streaming",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"TotalBitRate","The total bit rate (audio","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"& video combined) of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the media.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"AudioBitRate","The audio bit rate of the","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"AspectRatio","The aspect ratio of the","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video of the media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ColorSpace","The color space model","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"used for the video aspect",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"FrameHeight","The frame height in","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pixels of the video in the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"FrameWidth","The frame width in","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pixels of the video in the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ProfileName","The name of the color","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"profile used on the video",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"portion of the media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"VideoBitRate","The bit rate of the video","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"aspect of the media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Text","Data","Subject","The subject of the text.","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"This could be metadata",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"that's supplied with the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"text or something",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"automatically generated",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"with technologies like",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"VTWIN",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PageCount","The number of printable","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pages of the document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"LineCount","The number of lines in","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"WordCount","The number of words in","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"URL","The URL that will get","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"you to this document (or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"at least did at one time).",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Relevant for saved",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"HTML documents,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"bookmarks, RSS feeds,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"etc.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PageTitle","The title of a web page.","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Relevant to HTML or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"bookmark documents",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Google","Structure of where this","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Hierarchy","page can be found in the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Google hierarchy.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Relevant to HTML or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"bookmark documents",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Com-","Data","<Abstract>","There are no specific","n\/a","n\/a","n\/a","n\/a","n\/a","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["pound",{},{},"attributes assigned to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["document",{},{},"this item. This is to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"catch all app-specific",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"file formats that fall",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"within Data, but don't fit",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"into any of the other",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"types. Typically these",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"documents have",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"multiple types of media",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"embedded within them.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(e.g. P",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["PDF","Compound","NumberOfPages","The number of printable","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"document",{},"pages in the document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PageSize","The size of the page","CFNumber","No",{},"No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"stored as points",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFTitle","PDF-specific title","CFString","No",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFAuthor","PDF-specific author","CFString","No",{},"?","Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFSubject","PDF-specific subject","CFString","No",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFKeywords","PDF-specific keywords","CFString","Yes",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFCreated","PDF-specific created","CFDate","No",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFModified","PDF-specific modified","CFDate","No",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"PDFVersion","PDF-specific version","CFString","No",{},"?","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"metadata for the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"SecurityMethod","Method by which this","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"document is kept secure",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Presen-","Compound","SlideTitles","A collection of the titles","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":["tation","document",{},"on slides",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["(Keynote)",{},"SlideCount","The number of slides","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"SpeakerNotesContent","The content of all the","CFString","?",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"speaker notes from all of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the slides together",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Appli-","Item","Categories","The kind of application","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":["cation",{},{},"this is: productivity,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"games, utility, graphics,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"etc. A set list that",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Message","Item","Recipients","Maps to To and Cc:","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"addresses in a mail",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message.",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Priority","The priority of the","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message as set by the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sender",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"AttachmentNames","The list of filenames that","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"represent attachments in",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a particular message",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(should be actionable",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"within the Finder)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Authors","maps to From address in","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"mail message",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Comment","Not applicable to Mail","CFString","No","No","Yes","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"right now (should we",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"consider?)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ContentType",{},"CFString","No",{},"No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ContentTypes",{},"CFString","Yes",{},"No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CreatedDate","When was this message","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"was sent or received",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"DisplayName","Subject of the message","CFString","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords","There will be a way to","CFString","Yes","System-","Yes","Yes","Ask",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"set keywords within",{},{},"provided",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Mail",{},{},"keywords",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"(if any)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Contact","Could be where","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Ask","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords","recipients are held",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ModifiedDate","Not applicable","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Rating","A relative rating (0 to 5","CFNumber","No","n\/a","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"stars) on how important",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a particular message is",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to you (separate from a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message's Priority)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"RelatedTos","Potentially threaded","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"messages could be put",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"into this category",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"TextContent","An indexed version of","CFString","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the mail message",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"UsedDates","The day\/time in which","CFDate","Yes","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the mail message was",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"viewed\/read",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Company","The company that this","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contact is an employee",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"E-mails","A list of e-mail","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},"Mail"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"addresses that this",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contact has",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"IMs","A list of instant message","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},"iChat"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"handles this contact has",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Contact","Item","Phones","A list of phone numbers","CFString","Yes",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"that relate to this contact",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Addresses","A list of physical","CFString","Yes",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"addresses that relate to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"this person",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Authors","the name of the owner of","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the Address Book",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(current user name)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Comment",{},"CFString","No","No","Yes","Yes ","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Content Type",{},"CFString","No",{},"No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Content Types",{},"CFString","Yes",{},"No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"CreatedDate","date the user entered this","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"into his AddressBook",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(either through import or",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"direct entry)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"DisplayName","Composite name of","CFString","No","Yes","Yes","Yes","Yes",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contact (First Name,",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Last Name)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords","There will be a way to","CFString","Yes","System-","Yes","Yes","Ask",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"set keywords within",{},{},"provided",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Address Book",{},{},"keywords",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"(if any)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Contact",{},"CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes","Ask","Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Keywords",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ModifiedDate","Last time this contact","CFDate","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"entry was modified",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Rating","A relative rating (0 to 5","CFNumber","No","n\/a","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"stars) on how important",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a particular contact is to",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"you (separate from a",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message's Priority)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"RelatedTos","(potentially could be","CFString","Yes","No","Yes","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"used to associate people",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"from the same company",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or family)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"TextContent","An indexed version of","CFString","No","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the Notes section",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"UsedDates","The day\/time in which","CFDate","Yes","No","No","Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the contact entry was",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"viewed in Address Book",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Meeting","Item","Body","text, rich text or","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":["(TBD)",{},{},"document that represents",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the full content of the",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"event",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Description","text describing the event","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"EventTimes","time\/date the event starts","CFDate","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Duration","The length of time that","CFNumber","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the meeting lasts",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Invitees","The list of people who","CFString","Yes",{},{},"Yes",{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"are invited to the",{},{},{},{},{},{},"Book"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"meeting",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Location","The name of the location","CFString","No",{},{},"Yes",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"where the meeting is",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"taking place"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"One particular field which may be useful in the various metadata formats would be a field which includes an identifier of a plug-in or other software element which may be used to capture metadata from a data file and\/or export metadata back to the creator application.","Various different software architectures may be used to implement the functions and operations described herein. The following discussion provides one example of such an architecture, but it will be understood that alternative architectures may also be employed to achieve the same or similar results. The software architecture shown in  is an example which is based upon the Macintosh operating system. The architecture  includes a metadata processing software  and an operating system (OS) kernel  which is operatively coupled to the metadata processing software  for a notification mechanism which is described below. The metadata processing software  is also coupled to other software programs such as a file system graphical user interface software  (which may be the Finder), an email software , and other applications . These applications are coupled to the metadata processing software  through client application program interface  which provide a method for transferring data and commands between the metadata processing software  and the software , , and . These commands and data may include search parameters specified by a user as well as commands to perform searches from the user, which parameters and commands are passed to the metadata processing software  through the interface . The metadata processing software  is also coupled to a collection of importers  which extract data from various applications. In particular, in one exemplary embodiment, a text importer is used to extract text and other information from word processing or text processing files created by word processing programs such as Microsoft Word, etc. This extracted information is the metadata for a particular file. Other types of importers extract metadata from other types of files, such as image files or music files. In this particular embodiment, a particular importer is selected based upon the type of file which has been created and modified by an application program. For example, if the data file was created by PhotoShop, then an image importer for PhotoShop may be used to input the metadata from a PhotoShop data file into the metadata database  through the metadata processing software . On the other hand, if the data file is a word processing document, then an importer designed to extract metadata from a word processing document is called upon to extract the metadata from the word processing data file and place it into the metadata database  through the metadata processing software . Typically, a plurality of different importers may be required in order to handle the plurality of different application programs which are used in a typical computer system. The importers  may optionally include a plurality of exporters which are capable of exporting the extracted metadata for particular types of data files back to property sheets or other data components maintained by certain application programs. For example, certain application programs may maintain some metadata for each data file created by the program, but this metadata is only a subset of the metadata extracted by an importer from this type of data file. In this instance, the exporter may export back additional metadata or may simply insert metadata into blank fields of metadata maintained by the application program.","The software architecture  also includes a file system directory  for the metadata. This file system directory keeps track of the relationship between the data files and their metadata and keeps track of the location of the metadata object (e.g. a metadata file which corresponds to the data file from which it was extracted) created by each importer. In one exemplary embodiment, the metadata database is maintained as a flat file format as described below, and the file system directory  maintains this flat file format. One advantage of a flat file format is that the data is laid out on a storage device as a string of data without references between fields from one metadata file (corresponding to a particular data file) to another metadata file (corresponding to another data file). This arrangement of data will often result in faster retrieval of information from the metadata database .","The software architecture  of  also includes find by content software  which is operatively coupled to a database  which includes an index of files. The index of files represents at least a subset of the data files in a storage device and may include all of the data files in a particular storage device (or several storage devices), such as the main hard drive of a computer system. The index of files may be a conventional indexed representation of the content of each document. The find by content software  searches for words in that content by searching through the database  to see if a particular word exists in any of the data files which have been indexed. The find by content software functionality is available through the metadata processing software  which provides the advantage to the user that the user can search concurrently both the index of files in the database  (for the content within a file) as well as the metadata for the various data files being searched. The software architecture shown in  may be used to perform the method shown in  or alternative architectures may be used to perform the method of .","The method of  may begin in operation  in which a notification of a change for a file is received. This notification may come from the OS kernel  which notifies the metadata processing software  that a file has been changed. This notification may come from sniffer software elements which detect new or modified files and deletion of files. This change may be the creation of a new file or the modification of an existing file or the deletion of an existing file. The deletion of an existing file causes a special case of the processing method of  and is not shown in . In the case of a deletion, the metadata processing software , through the use of the file system directory , deletes the metadata file in the metadata database  which corresponds to the deleted file. The other types of operations, such as the creation of a new file or the modification of an existing file, causes the processing to proceed from operation  to operation  in which the type of file which is the subject of the notification is determined. The file may be an Acrobat PDF file or an RTF word processing file or a JPEG image file, etc. In any case, the type of the file is determined in operation . This may be performed by receiving from the OS kernel  the type of file along with the notification or the metadata processing software  may request an identification of the type of file from the file system graphical user interface software  or similar software which maintains information about the data file, such as the creator application or parent application of the data file. It will be understood that in one exemplary embodiment, the file system graphical user interface software  is the Finder program which operates on the Macintosh operating system. In alternative embodiments, the file system graphical user interface system may be Windows Explorer which operates on Microsoft's Windows operating system. After the type of file has been determined in operation , the appropriate capture software (e.g. one of the importers ) is activated for the determined file type. The importers may be a plug-in for the particular application which created the type of file about which notification is received in operation . Once activated, the importer or capture software imports the appropriate metadata (for the particular file type) into the metadata database, such as metadata database  as shown in operation . Then in operation , the metadata is stored in the database. In one exemplary embodiment, it may be stored in a flat file format. Then in operation , the metadata processing software  receives search parameter inputs and performs a search of the metadata database (and optionally also causes a search of non-metadata sources such as the index of files ) and causes the results of the search to be displayed in a user interface. This may be performed by exchanging information between one of the applications, such as the software  or the software  or the other applications  and the metadata processing software  through the interface . For example, the file system software  may present a graphical user interface, allowing a user to input search parameters and allowing the user to cause a search to be performed. This information is conveyed through the interface  to the metadata processing software  which causes a search through the metadata database  and also may cause a search through the database  of the indexed files in order to search for content within each data file which has been indexed. The results from these searches are provided by the metadata processing software  to the requesting application which, in the example given here, was the software , but it will be appreciated that other components of software, such as the email software , may be used to receive the search inputs and to provide a display of the search results. Various examples of the user interface for inputting search requests and for displaying search results are described herein and shown in the accompanying drawings.","It will be appreciated that the notification, if done through the OS kernel, is a global, system wide notification process such that changes to any file will cause a notification to be sent to the metadata processing software. It will also be appreciated that in alternative embodiments, each application program may itself generate the necessary metadata and provide the metadata directly to a metadata database without the requirement of a notification from an operating system kernel or from the intervention of importers, such as the importers . Alternatively, rather than using OS kernel notifications, an embodiment may use software calls from each application to a metadata processing software which receives these calls and then imports the metadata from each file in response to the call.","As noted above, the metadata database  may be stored in a flat file format in order to improve the speed of retrieval of information in most circumstances. The flat file format may be considered to be a non-B tree, non-hash tree format in which data is not attempted to be organized but is rather stored as a stream of data. Each metadata object or metadata file will itself contain fields, such as the fields shown in the examples of . However, there will typically be no relationship or reference or pointer from one field in one metadata file to the corresponding field (or another field) in the next metadata file or in another metadata file of the same file type.  shows an example of the layout in a flat file format of metadata. The format  includes a plurality of metadata files for a corresponding plurality of data files. As shown in , metadata file  is metadata from file  of application A and may be referred to as metadata file A. Similarly, metadata file  is metadata from file  of application B and may be referred to as metadata file B. Each of these metadata files typically would include fields which are not linked to other fields and which do not contain references or pointers to other fields in other metadata files. It can be seen from  that the metadata database of  includes metadata files from a plurality of different applications (applications A, B, and C) and different files created by each of those applications. Metadata files , , , and  are additional metadata files created by applications A, B, and C as shown in .","A flexible query language may be used to search the metadata database in the same way that such query languages are used to search other databases. The data within each metadata file may be packed or even compressed if desirable. As noted above, each metadata file, in certain embodiments, will include a persistent identifier which uniquely identifies its corresponding data file. This identifier remains the same even if the name of the file is changed or the file is modified. This allows for the persistent association between the particular data file and its metadata.","User Interface Aspects","Various different examples of user interfaces for inputting search parameters and for displaying search results are provided herein. It will be understood that some features from certain embodiments may be mixed with other embodiments such that hybrid embodiments may result from these combinations. It will be appreciated that certain features may be removed from each of these embodiments and still provide adequate functionality in many instances.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["701","703","703","701","705","701","707","713","715","717","701","709","711","701","729","701","734","735","736","701","731","701","732","733","701","705","705","721","722","723","701","721","721"]},"The combination of text entry region  and the search parameter menu bar allow a user to specify a search query or search parameters. Each of the configurable pull down menus presents a user with a list of options to select from when the user activates the pull down menu. As shown in , the user has already made a selection from the configurable pull down menu  to specify the location of the search, which in this case specifies that the search will occur on the local disks of the computer systems. Configurable pull down menu  has also been used by the user to specify the kind of document which is to be searched for, which in this case is an image document as indicated by the configurable pull down menu  which indicates \u201cimages\u201d as the selected configuration of this menu and hence the search parameter which it specifies. The configurable pull down menu , as shown in , represents an add search parameter pull down menu. This add search parameter pull down menu allows the user to add additional criteria to the search query to further limit the search results. In the embodiment shown in , each of the search parameters is logically ANDed in a Boolean manner. Thus the current search parameter specified by the user in the state shown in  searches all local disks for all images, and the user is in the middle of the process of selecting another search criteria by having selected the add search criteria pull down menu , resulting in the display of the pull down menu , which has a plurality of options which may be selected by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["701","719","719","719"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 7D","FIG. 7D","FIG. 7D","FIG. 7E","FIG. 7A-7E","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A-7E","FIG. 7D"],"b":["701","719","718","718","718","717","718","717","707","718","718","718","701","717","719","713","713","707","718","717"]},"It will also be appreciated that the various options in the pull down menus may depend upon the fields within a particular type of metadata file. For example, the selection of \u201cimages\u201d to be searched may cause the various fields present in the metadata for an image type file to appear in one or more pull down menus, allowing the user to search within one or more of those fields for that particular type of file. Other fields which do not apply to \u201cimages\u201d types of files may not appear in these menus in order reduce the complexity of the menus and to prevent user confusion.","Another feature of the present invention is shown in . In particular, the side bar region A, which is the user-configurable portion of the side bar, includes a representation of a folder  which represents the search results obtained from a particular search, which search results may be static or they may be dynamic in that, in certain instances, the search can be performed again to obtain results based on the current files in the system. The folder  in the example shown in  represents a search on a local disk for all images done on December 10. By selecting this folder in the side bar region A, the user may cause the display in the display region  of the results of that search. In this way, a user may retrieve a search result automatically by saving the search result into the side bar region A. One mechanism for causing a search result or a search query to be saved into the side bar region A is to select the add folder button  which appears in the bottom portion of the window . By selecting this button, the current search result or search query is saved as a list of files and other objects retrieved in the current search result. In the case where the search query is saved for later use rather than the saving of a search result, then the current search query is saved for re-use at a later time in order to find files which match the search query at that later time. The user may select between these two functionalities (saving a search result or saving a search query) by the selection of a command which is not shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8B"],"b":["801","805","807","809","811","803","801","802","801","815","817","819","821"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["901","905","903","903","903","903","927","901","929","937","934","935","936","901","909","905","917","919","919","921","909","911","913"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1001","1001","1005","1003","1003","1001","1021","1022","1021","1029","1037","1034","1035","1036","1015","1009","1007","1011","1007","1011","1012","1013"]},"The window  includes an additional feature which may be very useful while analyzing a search result. A user may select individual files from within the display region  and associate them together as one collection. Each file may be individually marked using a specific command (e.g. pressing the right button on a mouse and selecting a command from a menu which appears on the screen, which command may be \u201cadd selection to current group\u201d) or similar such commands. By individually selecting such files or by selecting a group of files at once, the user may associate this group of files into a selected group or a \u201cmarked\u201d group and this association may be used to perform a common action on all of the files in the group (e.g. print each file or view each file in a viewer window or move each file to a new or existing folder, etc.). A representation of this marked group appears as a folder in the user-configurable portion A. An example of such a folder is the folder  shown in the user-configurable portion A. By selecting this folder (e.g. by positioning a cursor over the folder  and pressing and releasing a mouse button or by pressing another button) the user, as a result of this selection, will cause the display within the display region  of the files which have been grouped together or marked. Alternatively, a separate window may appear showing only the items which have been marked or grouped. This association or grouping may be merely temporary or it may be made permanent by retaining a list of all the files which have been grouped and by keeping a folder  or other representations of the grouping within the user-configurable side bar, such as the side bar A. Certain embodiments may allow multiple, different groupings to exist at the same time, and each of these groupings or associations may be merely temporary (e.g. they exist only while the search results window is displayed), or they may be made permanent by retaining a list of all the files which have been grouped within each separate group. It will be appreciated that the files within each group may have been created from different applications. As noted above, one of the groupings may be selected and then a user may select a command which performs a common action (e.g. print or view or move or delete) on all of the files within the selected group.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIGS. 11A-11D"],"b":["11","11","11","1101","1103","1103","1101","1131","1121","1122","1123","1121","1121","1105","1129","1137","1134","1135","1136","1132","1101","1111","1112","1114","1112","1113","1112","1114","1105","1114","1137","1137"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 11B","FIG. 11B","FIG. 12A","FIG. 11C","FIG. 11C","FIG. 11C","FIG. 11C","FIG. 11D"],"b":["1112","1113","1112","1111","1113","1113","719","1214","1113","1113","1111","1111","1111","1111","1112","1109","1101","1112","1113","1113","1101","1115","1115","1116","1101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A","FIGS. 12A-12D","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12C"],"b":["12","12","12","1237","1201","1211","1205","1251","1257","1259","1255","1271","1277","1279","1275"]},"The window  shown in  includes a display region  which shows the results of a search; these results may be shown dynamically as the user enters search parameters or the results may be shown only after the user has instructed the system to perform the search (e.g. by selecting a \u201cperform search\u201d command). The window  includes conventional window controls, such as a resizing control , a scrolling control , a title bar  which may be used to move the window, a window close button, a window minimize button, and a window resize button , , and , respectively. The window  also includes a user-configurable side bar region A and a system specified side bar region B. It can be seen from  that a browse mode has been selected as indicated by the highlighted \u201cbrowse\u201d icon C in the system specified side bar region B. The window  also includes a text entry region , which a user may use to enter text for a search, and the window  also includes view selector buttons .","A column  of window  allows a user to select various search parameters by selecting one of the options which in turn causes the display of a submenu that corresponds to the selected option. In the case of , the user has selected the \u201ckind\u201d option  and then has used the submenu  to select the \u201cphotos\u201d option from the submenu, resulting in an indicator  (photos) to appear in the column  under the \u201ckind\u201d option as shown in . It can also be seen that the user has previously selected the \u201ctime\u201d option in the column  and has selected from a submenu brought up when the \u201ctime\u201d option was selected the \u201cpast week\u201d search parameter. When the user has finished making selections of the various options and suboptions from both the column  and any of the corresponding submenus which appear, then the display showed in  appears. Note that the submenus are no longer present and that the user has completed the selection of the various options and suboptions which specify the search parameters. Column  in  provides feedback to the user indicating the exact nature of the search query (in this case a search for all photos dated in the past week), and the results which match the search query are shown in the display region .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIGS. 12C and 12D","FIGS. 12A and 12B","FIG. 12D","FIG. 12D","FIG. 12D"],"b":["1259","1251","1214","1251","1214","1279","1271","1259","1251","1253","1253","1253","1254","1258","1271","1271","1273","1273","1274","1277","1283"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 13A","FIGS. 13A and 13B"],"b":["1301","1302","1301","1310","1305","1306","1303","1304","1301","1316","1302","1306","1302","1317","1315","1319","1307","1308","1307","1309","1303","1306","1307","1308"]},"The window  shown in  shows the activation of a menu by selecting the search button A, causing a display of a menu having two entries  and . Entry  displays recently performed searches so that a user may merely recall a prior search by selecting the prior search and cause the prior search to be run again. The menu selection  allows the user to clear the list of recent searches in the menu.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A","FIG. 14A","FIG. 14A"],"b":["14","14","1401","1403","1405","1406","1407","1409","1410","1411","1401","1415","1416","1417","1416","1419","1420","1418","1422","1421","1403","1417","1406","1405","1406","1403","1406","1403","1406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 14B","FIG. 14B","FIG. 14B"],"b":["1406","1425","1415","1406","1403","1425","1415","1403","1409"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 14C","b":["1401","1403","1406","1427","1427","1427","1417","1416","1401"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 14D","b":"1406"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIGS. 15A","FIG. 15A","FIG. 15A","FIG. 15B","FIG. 16A","FIG. 15C","FIG. 15D","FIG. 15D","FIG. 15D"],"b":["15","15","15","1507","1509","1502","1505","1505","1507","1509","1507","1511","1513","1503","1503","1511","1513","1503","1503","1503","1511","1509","1601","1502","1505","1502","1503","1507","1503","1520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A and 16B","FIG. 15A","FIGS. 16A and 16B","FIG. 16A","FIG. 16A","FIG. 17","FIG. 16A","FIG. 16A","FIG. 16B","FIG. 16B","FIG. 16A"],"b":["1509","15","1601","1601","1603","1605","1607","1609","1605","1605","1611","1613","1615","1617","1619","1621","1623","1607","1609","1627","1627","1635","1636","1637","1630","1631","1632","1628","1635","1614","1614"]},"The search results user interface shown in  presents only a limited number of matches or hits within each category. In the particular example of these figures, only the five top (most relevant or most highly sorted) hits are displayed. This can be seen by noticing the entry at the bottom of each list within a group which specifies how many more hits are within that group; these hits can be examined by selecting this indicator, such as indicator , which causes the display of all of the items in the documents category or kind for the search for \u201cbutton\u201d which was entered into the text entry region . Further examples of this behavior are described below and are shown in conjunction with . It will be appreciated that window  is a closeable and resizable and moveable window and includes a close button and a resizing control A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 16A","FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 18A","FIG. 18B","FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 16A","FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIGS. 18A and 18B"],"b":["1801","1601","1801","1803","1805","1807","1809","1605","1607","1609","1801","1827","1801","1801","1811","1813","1815","1817","1819","1821","1823","1814","1812","1801","1818","5","1832","1830","1831","1819","1817"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 19A","FIG. 19A","FIG. 19A","FIG. 19B","FIG. 19A","FIG. 19B"],"b":["1601","1901","1903","1905","1907","1908","1925","1925","1903","1901","1906","1911","1913","1915","1917","1905","1907","1901"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 19C","b":["1930","1903","1905","1907","1908","1926","1930","1932","1934","1936","1938","1940","1930","1942","1945","1946","1944"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 19D","FIG. 19D"],"b":["1950","1908","1952","1954","1956","1958"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 19E","FIG. 19E","FIG. 19E"],"b":["1970","1901","1905","1907","1926","1925","1925","1970","1972","1903","1973","1975","1977","1979"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 15A","FIG. 15B","FIG. 16A"],"b":["1505","15","15","2001","1505","2003","2005","2007","2009","2011","1601"]},"Another aspect of the present inventions relates to previews, displayed within search results windows, which are at least one of being resizeable, zoomable, or pageable through. For example, a first representation of a first file found by the search may be at least one of being resizeable or zoomable or scrollable or pageable through within a display region, such as a window, which contains the results of the search.  shows an exemplary method for performing at least some of the functionality of this aspect. In operation , a user's search input is received by a data processing system which, in turn, in operation , performs the search and then presents the search results based on the user's search input. In addition, the results are presented such that, for at least one file which was found by the search, the file is represented by a preview or other representation of the file, where the preview or other representation is either resizeable or zoomable or scrollable or pageable through or a combination of those capabilities. For example, if the file which is found is a picture file, then a thumbnail of the picture file may be the representation which is resizeable within the search results window, such that it can be enlarged in size or decreased in size on the display device within the search results window. Further, the picture, which is a thumbnail which represents the file, may be zoomable in that the content of the representation may be zoomed in (e.g. magnified) or out (e.g. demagnified) while maintaining the same area or size of the representation. In addition or alternatively, the content in the representation may be pageable in that multiple different pages of the content may be displayed either sequentially over time by paging through the multiple pages in sequence, as if one were flipping through pages in a book, or multiple pages may be spread out concurrently. One or more of these actions may be possible, depending upon the particular type of content. Images will typically be resizeable or zoomable or scrollable and may also be pageable, for example. In at least certain embodiments of the present invention, as shown in operation , the representation within the search results window may be resized or scrolled or zoomed or paged through without having to launch the application which created the content.","A preview, at least in certain embodiments, can apply to files or other objects (e.g. records, emails, messages, vCards, etc.). A single page preview can be used for a thumbnail or in any situation where a single image is needed to provide a preview of an item. Multiple items can be previewed at once and compared, or viewed in sequence. When multiple items are previewed at once, they can be of any file type including many different file types. The previews can be shown in the same window as the search results window or in a separate window or in a layer that is overlaid above the item, shown in a search result, which is being previewed in the layer above.","A preview may be presented using a variety of different implementations, such as a plug-in implementation which uses one or more plug-ins, such as a QuickTime plug-in, etc. Each of the previews may be formatted in one of several standard data\/file types (such as PDF, text, HTML, JPEG, a movie format, or a sound\/music format). The previews may be either generated by the application, which created the item or file represented by the preview, when the item or file is stored or may be generated dynamically when needed. A dynamically generated preview may be produced by invoking a generator plug-in that translates the native format of the item being previewed to one of the \u201cstandard\u201d data\/file types (e.g. PDF, text, HTML, JPEG, a standard movie format, or a standard sound\/music format). A preview generator plug-in may be loaded in a separate process to protect against failures and\/or security vulnerabilities. Alternatively, a trusted generator plug-in (e.g. QuickTime), or a set of such plug-ins may be loaded directly in the process of presenting the search results and such plug-ins may be used to present the previews. A preview generator may be capable of handling multiple preview requests concurrently and the preview generator and\/or the search software controlling the search results window may manage a queue of preview requests, and the search software can cancel or reorder the preview requests in the queue.","The following figures show examples of previews or other representations which are resizeable or zoomable or scrollable or pageable through.  shows an example of a preview  displayed on a display device, either within a search result window or as an overlay on the window. The preview  is scrollable and resizeable; it may be scrolled using any one of the scroll controls ,  and\/or . It may be resized using the resize control .  shows a preview  which can display multiple documents or items in a scrollable format. The view shown in  of the preview  shows only one document and another document can be selected for viewing using interface controls , , and . The view of preview  is scrollable using scroll controls , A and\/or B. The view of preview  is also resizeable using resize control . The user can also switch to display multiple documents or items at once in the view of preview  by selecting the user interface control  which will cause the preview shown in  to appear similar to the preview shown in  which shows multiple documents concurrently. The preview shown in  may also be scrollable.","Previews or other representations which are resizeable or scrollable or zoomable or pageable through may also be provided in other user interfaces which may include alternative types of views such as a cover flow view which is further described below.  provides an example of one method of using a cover flow view, such as the cover flow view area  shown in . In operation , a data processing system displays one or more windows containing a user interface of a file system, such as a hierarchical file system (HFS) or a user interface of a search software, such as the search software known as Spotlight from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif. The window  is an example of a window containing a user interface of a file system; in this case, the file system user interface is the program Finder from Apple Inc. Another example of a user interface for a file system is the user interface provided by the Windows Explorer computer program from Microsoft. An example of a window which contains a user interface of a search software, such as the search software Spotlight, is the window  shown in . These windows may be moveable, resizeable, closeable, and be able to overlap with other windows. For example, other windows may partially cover the window displayed in operation  or the window displayed in operation  may cover other windows. Moreover, the window may be moveable around the display device (e.g. by positioning a cursor over a portion of the window, such as the title bar of the window, and by then moving the cursor after the title bar has been selected by a user to thereby move the window) and the window may be resizeable, by using one or more user interface objects as is known in the art, or closeable or minimizeable. In operation , the data processing system may display user selectable view options for displaying files and folders. These view options may include an icon view, or a list view, or a column view, or a cover flow view. One or more of these view options may be selected by a user through a user interface object, such as the icon view user interface object  or the list view user interface object , or the column view user interface object , or the cover flow view user interface object  shown in . These selectable view options may be displayed within the window displayed in operation  or in another part of the user interface such as in a menu bar or other selectable menu object or a dock, such as dock . In operation , the data processing system may display scrolling user interface objects which may include arrow user interface objects, such as the up-scroll user interface object  and the down-scroll user interface object  shown in . These scrolling user interface objects may allow scrolling of one or more views either concurrently or separately as further described below. Each view may include its own set of scrolling user interface objects or a single set of scrolling user interface objects may be used to scroll both views if the scrolling is concurrent or linked as further described below. In operation , the data processing system may receive one or more user commands from the cover flow view area or from other view areas to perform file system operations, such as creating a new folder in the HFS, and the system responds by performing these operations. Commands may be received through various user interface objects, including pull-down menus on a menu bar, such as the menu bar  shown in , or a contextual command user interface object, such as the contextual command user interface object , or through a dragging and dropping manipulation on an icon representing the document or file from one window to another window or within the same window, etc. These user interface objects may be in the same window as the window displayed in operation  or in different or other portions of the user interface displayed on the display device of the data processing system. In addition to or instead of user commands to perform file system operations, the data processing system may receive user commands requesting a zoom or a scroll or a page through or a resizing of content displayed within the cover flow area as further described below. The data processing system may also, in operation , display user selectable options to sort a list or flow view either concurrently or separately. These user selectable options may include options to sort by the name of a file or the type\/kind of file or the date last used or other parameters which may be used to sort files in either a list view or other types of views, such as an icon view or column view or a cover flow view as described further below.","It will be understood that the method shown in  is one general example of a use of a cover flow view to display content within a file system and to receive commands for the file system through the cover flow view, such as through direct manipulation of icons representing documents in the cover flow view. Further, the method of  may also be used in the context of receiving search inputs and providing the search results through software which provides a user interface for searching for files in a file system, such as an HFS. It will be appreciated that the operations shown in , as in other flow charts described herein, may be performed in a different order and may include fewer operations than shown in  or may include more operations than shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 24A","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24A"],"b":["2311","2312","2315","2317","2324","2316","2324","2317","2316","2320","2316","2316","2316","2318","2319"]},"The window  also includes a search input field A into which a user may enter one or more search terms to cause the data processing system to perform a search, such as the searches described above, through metadata and\/or one or more indexes of the full content of files, such as text files. The user interface may also include a search input menu area B which may be activated by the user (e.g. by clicking in the area on an icon in the area) to cause the display of another search input field into which a user can enter one or more search terms to cause a search to also be performed as described above. The window may also include one or more icons which a user can select to select one or more views within the window . Examples of such icons are the icons , , , and  shown in the upper portion of the window . In particular, the icon view interface object  may be selected by a user to cause the display of files within a particular folder or group of folders in an icon view manner as is known in the art. The selection of the list view user interface object  will cause the display of files in a list, such as in a manner which is similar to the list display view area ; this list will typically include one or more columns, such as name, kind, and last used date as shown in  which can be used to sort the list in a variety of different ways as is described further below, in conjunction with, for example, . The column view user interface object  may be selected by the user to cause a column view as is known in the art. Lastly, the cover flow view user interface object  may be selected to cause a cover flow view which may be a view of the cover flow view area by itself or a view with the cover flow view area and the list display view area, such as the list display view area  as shown in . The window  may also include a close window user interface object  and a maximize window user interface object  which operate to close and maximize the window respectively as is known in the art. The window  may also include a back control user interface object  and a forward control user interface object  which operate to toggle the contents of the window back or forward through a history list of the window's previous displays as is known in the art. The window  may also include a contextual command user interface object  which, when activated or selected, presents a menu of options such as the menu shown as menu  or other menus from which a user can choose one or more commands depending on the context of the system. These commands may be commands to perform file system operations such as moving or copying files, or creating a folder or other operations, including search operations. The window  may also include one or more scroll control user interface objects for the side bar region , such as the scroll control user interface objects  which may be used to scroll up and down the side bar region . The window  may also include a resize control user interface object  which may be selected by a user and then dragged by the user to resize the window  as is known in the art.","The window  may have two sets of scroll control user interface objects. One set may control scrolling within the cover flow view area and the other set may control scrolling within the list display view area. The scrolling of one view area may be linked to the scrolling of the other view area, such that activation of a scroll control in one of the sets to cause scrolling in one view area will also cause a corresponding scrolling in the other view area. In alternative embodiments, the scrolling may not be linked, such that one area can be scrolled independently of the other area; for example, scrolling the list display view area does not cause scrolling in the cover flow view area in this alternative embodiment. The scroll controls for the cover flow view area include the scroll bar control object  which may be dragged or moved by a user, and it further includes the left scroll user interface object  which acts like a left scroll arrow, and the right scroll user interface object  which acts as a right scroll arrow. Together these three objects are part of the scroll control user interface object . The scroll controls for the list display view area include a scroll bar control object  and an up-scroll user interface object  and a down-scroll user interface object  to cause scrolling in a known manner. The cover flow view area includes a set of documents on one side of the selected document  in the cover flow view area and another set of documents or files on the other side of the selected document . In particular, document  and another document are on the left side of the selected document  and the documents  and  are on the right side of the selected document . As can be seen from , the density of documents on either side of the selected document is higher than the density of documents between the rightmost edge of document  and the leftmost edge of document . In other words, the selected document in the cover flow view is spaced apart from the collection of documents on either side of it. Furthermore, in the cover flow view, the documents on either side of the selected document are shown in perspective view such that the documents on the left side appear to face the selected document while the documents on the right side appear to face the selected document. Also, when several documents are on one side of the selected document, at least some of the documents are covered by other documents on that side; in other words, on that side, the documents are arranged in an overlapping manner. Further, when a document moves from one side of the selected document to the other side of the selected document, its content will appear to change the direction in which it faces. This can be seen by comparing document  in  with document  in . In the case of , the document  appears to face towards the right side, which is towards the selected document , while in , the document  appears to face towards the left, which is also towards the selected document  in . As the document moves across the selected document position in the middle of the cover flow area, the direction of its content appears to switch. This may again be due to the perspective view in which the document appears to be angled. This may also be due to the use of different lengths of sides for two parallel sides of a thumbnail or icon in the cover flow view. For example, document  appears to have two parallel sides which are vertical but which do not have an equal length even if the document represented by document , in fact, has two such sides which are of equal length. This can also be seen by comparing the two vertical sides of the thumbnail  in .","It will be appreciated that the files and items displayed in the cover flow view and in the list view  and , respectively, may include a variety of different documents of a variety of different types, such as text files, PDF files, picture files such as JPG files, web page (e.g. HTML) files, Microsoft Word or Excel files, movie files, other files and other file types noted herein, and folders or subdirectories as is commonly found in file management software such as the Finder or Windows Explorer. These folders may be containers for other documents in a hierarchical file system as is known in the art.","In addition to the use of a cover flow view for a view of files and folders in either or both of a file management software program (such as the Finder) or a search software program (such as Spotlight), a cover flow view may also be provided in \u201copen\u201d or \u201csave as\u201d windows which are presented\/displayed to a user to allow the user to open an existing file from within an application (such as a word processing or image processing or web browsing application) or to save a file from within such application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":["FIG. 24B","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24B","FIGS. 24A and 24B","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24B","FIG. 24A"],"b":["2319","2319","2318","2319","2319","2318"]},"The user interface shown in  shows how the user or the system can change the selected document  within the list display view area  and thereby cause the change in the selected document shown in the cover flow view area. In the case of , the user or the system has selected as the selected document the document entitled \u201cSales Help,\u201d thereby causing this document to also appear as the selected document  in the cover flow view area . In the case of the user interface shown in , the user or the system has selected the document \u201cMaxServ\u201d as the selected document  which has, in turn, caused the selected document to appear as document  in the cover flow view area . In some embodiments, the selected document may be selected by selecting a document (e.g. document ) in the cover flow view to change the selected document in both views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIGS. 24D and 24E","FIG. 24D","FIGS. 24D and 24E","FIG. 24E"],"b":["2355","2316","2355","2316","2322","2325","2327","2328","2330","2333","2326","2355","2357","2316","2355","2359","2330","2355","2314","2316","2355","2316","2319","2359","2355","2355","2318","2316","2319","2316","2355","2335","2335","2365","2363","2315","2312"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIGS. 24F and 24G","FIG. 24G","FIG. 24G"],"b":["2373","2330","2371","2316","2319","2318","2375","2376","2377","2378","2375","2379","2375","2318","2320","2375","2318","2320","2313","2471","2377","2379","2377","2318","2377","2377","2319","2346","2347"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":["FIGS. 25A and 25B","FIGS. 25A and 25B","FIG. 25B"],"b":["2314","2319","2318","2318","2405","2407","2409","2411","2403","2407","2318","2407","2318","2319"]},"An example of the use of the manipulation of a document or file from within the cover flow view area will now be provided relative to the method shown in  in conjunction with , C, D, E, F, G, H, and I. The method shown in  may begin in operation  in which a window is displayed by the data processing system. The window may have a user interface of a cover flow view and optionally may also display a list view within the same window. An example of this operation is shown in  in which the window  includes a cover flow view area  and a list display view area  in the same window . In operation , the data processing system receives a user's command to zoom or page through or scroll through a document shown in or selected from the cover flow view area. This command may be through the user's selection of a user interface object or a direct manipulation or a variety of other techniques described herein. For example, the user may desire to page through a multiple page document by selecting arrow icons such as the arrow icons  or . In other embodiments, the user command may be the selection of a scroll control, such as one or more of the scroll controls  or  or  shown in  in order to cause scrolling through the document. In other embodiments, the user interface object may, when selected, cause zooming of the object from one size to another size, such as the zoomed view shown in  or F. The system, in operation , responds to the user's command to zoom or page through or scroll through the document in or selected from the cover flow view area. Examples of the response of such a system are shown in , and E, and I, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":["FIG. 26B","FIG. 26C","FIG. 26C","FIGS. 26D","FIG. 26D","FIG. 26D","FIG. 26E","FIG. 25C","FIGS. 26F and 26G","FIG. 26F","FIG. 26G","FIGS. 26H and 26I","FIGS. 26F and 26G","FIG. 26H","FIG. 26I"],"b":["2511","2512","2314","2314","2319","2318","2514","2515","2318","2318","2517","2516","2518","2519","2515","2521","2523","2515","2523","2515","26","26","26","26","26","2318","2515","2515","2515","2521","2523","2515","2515","2531","2532","2533","2515","2515","2318","2319","2318","2516","2516","2546","2547","2545","2516","2516","2516"]},"As described above, these previews or thumbnails may be shown by a set of software routines such as a set of plug-ins which are separate from a file management software program, such as the Finder or Windows Explorer. This separation between the plug-ins which renders the content and the Finder or other file management software provides security and stability because, for example, if the plug-in crashes, the Finder will not. These plug-ins may be a standard set of plug-ins that translate the native format of an item being previewed into one of a standard data\/file type, such as PDF, text, HTML, JPG, a standard movie format or a standard sound\/music format or into fully rendered content (e.g. a bit map). The set of plug-ins may be an extensible set of plug-ins and may interact with the file management software, such as the Finder or Windows Explorer, through a set of APIs in which the file management software makes a call to a plug-in management daemon which receives the call or API from the file management software (or other software program) and which, in turn, asks for the file type (e.g. UTI) from a file system kernel and matches one of the plug-ins in the standard set of plug-ins, which may be extensible, with the file type and which then calls the matched plug-in to cause the plug-in to load and return the content of the file (either in an immediately displayable form or in a standard format) as a preview to the file management software which, in turn, causes the preview to be displayed in, for example, the cover flow view area. This may occur in response to merely browsing the files through the use of the file management software, such as the Finder, or through the use of a search software program, such as Spotlight, to find files and then display previews or thumbnails of files retrieved by the search. As noted above, the preview or thumbnail may be generated dynamically upon request rather than when the item or file is stored or created by the application. This dynamic generation may be through an API. It will be understood that a dynamic generation of a preview or thumbnail may be provided without invoking or launching the application which created the file or document. Examples of software architectures to dynamically generate previews are discussed in conjunction with . In addition to a file management software program or a search software program, such as Spotlight, other software application programs may provide or use application programming interfaces (API) to request the preview generator or preview daemon to provide a preview or thumbnail of the content of a document within their windows. For example, an email program or a calendar program or a video conferencing application or an instant messaging application program or other application programs may also make a call to the preview generator or preview generator daemon to provide the content of a particular file in the manner described herein. In response to the call through an API from the email program or the calendar program or other program, the preview generator or preview generator daemon asks the file system for the file type and matches the file type with a plug-in having an ability to process that file type and causes that plug-in to be loaded (for example, by calling the plug-in through another optional API). The plug-in, in turn, processes the content of the file to generate the preview or thumbnail and provides that content to the original application which requested the content, such as the email program or a calendar program or, as noted above, a file management software. A preview or thumbnail may be provided in an inline preview manner in the cover flow view area or in an icon view or in an inline preview manner within a list view, such as the list view shown in  (which includes a preview or thumbnail view) or in a \u201cget information\u201d or \u201cproperties\u201d panel or window or in other uses.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIGS. 24B","FIGS. 26B","FIG. 26D","FIG. 24B","FIG. 24B","FIG. 26B","FIG. 26H","FIG. 26B","FIG. 26H"],"b":["26","26","26","26","2516","2516"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":["FIG. 27A","FIG. 27A","FIG. 27C","FIG. 24A","FIG. 19E","FIG. 14B","FIGS. 27C-27G","FIGS. 27B and 27C","FIG. 27C","FIG. 16B","FIG. 17"],"b":["2401","2403","2403","2405","2509","2407","2509","2509","1627","2407","2409"]},"One embodiment of the method shown in  includes presenting a first initial preview of a first item and a second initial preview of a second item in a list and presenting a first enhanced preview of the first item which replaces or supplements (e.g. displayed in addition to) the first initial preview and presenting, in response to a scroll or move command, a second enhanced preview of the second item which replaces or supplements the second initial preview. The move or scroll command, in one embodiment, appears to cause, from a user's perspective, the first enhanced preview to be replaced with the first initial preview and to cause the second initial preview to be replaced (or supplemented with) the second enhanced preview. The first item and the second item may be adjacent to each other in the list, and the scroll or move command appears to move a focus of an enhanced preview feature through the list from the first item to the second item and, if further scroll or move commands are received, through at least a portion of the rest of the list. The scroll or move commands may be caused by a user's interaction of an arrow icon (e.g. up or down scroll arrow icon) or the activation of an up arrow key or a down arrow key on a keyboard or the activation of other user interface components known in the art and the like.","The following figures are an exemplary embodiment of an aspect of previews related to the method described in .  provide examples of user interfaces in which the list view area is used in the context of a search software program, such as Spotlight from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif. In other embodiments, the list may be an icon view or list view in a Finder window.  shows an embodiment of a search result window shown as a user interface . The particular list of files may have been a result of a user entering a search phrase into the search input field A and caused the data processing system to perform the search as described in . The search results may be grouped by a category selected by a user. User interface  can be scrollable using scroll controls , , and . Each item in the search result list  includes an information button  which may be selected to produce the display of additional information , such as an icon  and additional information , as an enhanced preview which may be available from the system. The additional information may include such information as file name, file type, date of creation, date of modification, date of last use, file size, and other relevant information related to the particular file or folder. An example of such additional information is shown in  in which a user has selected the information button  for item  resulting in the display  of additional information  and icon . The user may close the enhanced preview display by selecting the close button  which causes the display of the information for items to revert to the appearance shown in . In one embodiment, while the enhanced preview display  of the selected item remains open, an input to scroll or move, such as a user's input on an arrow key or icon, may be received and the system, in response to the user input, directionally moves the enhanced previews along the list of items, concurrently displaying and directionally moving the enhanced previews to the next item on the list of items. In effect, enhanced previews of the files and folders or other items in the list can be viewed by scrolling while the enhanced preview display remains open rather than reverting back to  and  to open and close the enhanced preview display for every instance that an enhanced preview is desired. In this context, directional movement may refer to scrolling or paging depending upon the type of view (e.g., list view, icon view, cover flow view, etc.). Also, the enhanced preview display may be fixed within the perimeter of the initial preview or may be zoomable or resizable or interactive (e.g. a movie or music).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIGS. 27B-27G","FIGS. 27C-27G","FIG. 27G","FIG. 27G"],"b":"2503"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIGS. 27H-27M","FIG. 27M","FIG. 27M"],"b":["2509","2519","2503"]},"It will be appreciated that these embodiments, shown and described relative to , can be used in combination with other embodiments described herein, such embodiments having a cover flow view or icon view in addition to the list view as indicated by the user interface objects ,  and , or embodiments having zoomable or resizable views or embodiments having items being pageable as well as scrollable. Although these figures have been provided for in the context of a list view, it is appreciated that these aspects of previews can be applied to other views (e.g., cover flow view or icon view).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["3001","3011","3012","3011","3003","3007","3007","3011","3003","3005","3010","3009","3003","3011"]},"In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A-11D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A-12D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A","b":["14","14","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A","b":["15","15","15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A and 16B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIGS. 18A and 18B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIGS. 19A","b":["19","19","19","19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIGS. 22A","b":["22","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIGS. 24A-24G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 25A and 25B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 26A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIGS. 26B-26I"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 27A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIGS. 27B-27M"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 28"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
