---
title: Federated search
abstract: Various techniques are disclosed to permit searching several locations with one query. Locations may include web search sites, subscription-only sites, line of business applications, or other searchable data repositories. The query may be modified to provide the required format or other information for each location to perform a search.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321444&OS=08321444&RS=08321444
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08321444
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["In the course of day-to-day work, users often need to access information stored in various content repositories such as line of business applications, on-line newspapers, and web-based research sites. Finding the information stored in these content repositories involves searching multiple applications and sites, generally by loading a web page or an application associated with the desired information, performing a search, and then repeating this process for each content repository.","Web search sites index web pages to facilitate searching, but not all sites can be indexed with this method. For example, subscription sites may allow queries but not indexing, and many on-line stores that dynamically build product information pages from information in databases cannot be indexed, although they may be searched.","The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key\/critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","In accordance with one implementation presented herein, software such as an operating system-based search application (herein known as \u201coriginating software\u201d) running on a client computer allows a selection from a set of content repositories, or \u201clocations,\u201d to be searched. The originating software parses a query, may modify the content and syntax of the query to match the requirements for each of the selected locations, and submit queries to each of the locations through an appropriate programmatic interface, such as WebDAV, adding a query to a URL, or the like. Each of the locations then performs a search and returns the results to the originating software. A user interface is provided, allowing the returned results from each of the locations to be displayed. Some implementations allow for any number of different search applications to send queries to any number of locations.","Not all locations may allow all originating software to query them directly. For example, to enhance security, an enterprise may only allow certain servers and services, such as a particular intranet search portal, access to an authorization and authentication server that grants access to a particular location, such as a human resources database search engine. In an example, an intranet search portal may be allowed to search a particular location, but an operating system-based search application may not be allowed to search the particular location.","Some implementations described herein provide solutions to let the originating software send queries to the particular location via an internet search portal. In this example, the originating software would submit a query and a user's security credentials to the intranet search portal. The intranet search portal would access an authorization and authentication server, and obtain appropriate security credentials to access the human resources database search engine. The internet search portal would then submit the search with the appropriate credentials to the human resources database search engine, obtain results, and return the results to the originating software.","In some implementations a location B may, in response to a request from a location A, give information about other locations it can access, herein called \u201cself-description.\u201d Some implementation may also allow \u201cnesting,\u201d where, using the previous example, location B may request further request from a location C, that location B can access, a list of other locations that C can access, and return this list of location to location A. This nesting may be repeated for any or all of the locations accessible directly or indirectly, i.e. through another location, from location A.","The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of example implementations and is not intended to represent the only forms in federated search may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of example implementations and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the examples. However, the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by alternate implementations. Like numerals refer to like parts in the accompanying drawings.","Described herein are, among other things, examples of various technologies and techniques that allow federated search. Although the examples are described and illustrated herein as being implemented in a personal computer system, the system described is provided as an example and not a limitation. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, the present examples are suitable for application in a variety of different types of systems.","In some implementations of systems containing a query federator module (QFM), a user interface is provided, allowing an original query to be entered. Such a user interface may contain one area to enter an original query, one or more areas to display returned results, and a way to select which locations should be queried, herein known as \u201cselected locations\u201d out of a set of possible locations. The set of locations may be determined in a number of manners including but not limited to what an end-user selects and configures, or by what an administrator may configure via an administrative user interface.","The original query is processed and analyzed by the QFM, and queries appropriate for each of the selected resources, or \u201cprocessed queries\u201d are created. A processed query may be an unmodified copy of the original query, or it may be modified in syntax or content. For example, an original query may contain a clause to find a result where a property called \u201ctitle\u201d contains the word \u201ccloud.\u201d If a selected location has a property semantically equivalent to \u201ctitle\u201d but called \u201ccaption,\u201d the QFM may change the processed query to reference the property \u201ccaption\u201d instead of \u201ctitle\u201d. In another example, if an original query was entered using one syntax, and a selected location requires a different syntax, the QFM may provide a processed query matching the semantics of the original query but using the syntax of the selected location instead of the original query.","A processed query for each selected location is submitted to the respective selected location, and results are returned to the QFM. The results are then mapped back so that the metadata in them is consistent with what the original system expects. For example, if the results have properties with names of \u201cSubject\u201d and \u201cFilename\u201d, they might be mapped to \u201cTitle\u201d and \u201cURL\u201d so that the original system knows how to display these properties. The results are returned to and displayed in the user interface. The user interface may be divided into areas or sections corresponding to the selected location. In an alternate embodiment, all of the results may be displayed in one section of the user interface. Any interaction in the returned result portion of the user interface, such as a mouse click, is passed through to the location that provided that returned result. This allows, for example, a web search location to receive a click on a web page title and open the corresponding web page, or for a payroll application to receive a click on a name and open the corresponding payroll information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","110","105","110","120"]},"Server computer  provides access to server computers , , and  through wide area network . Server computers ,, host locations , ,  respectively.","Client computer  includes web browser software  (not shown). Web browser software  is accessing QFM . QFM  accesses locations ,,  to provide search results.","While this example shows client computer  as being connected to other locations through server computer , in other implementations client computer  may be connected to any number of locations directly, through a local area network, through a wide area network, a combination of both local area networks and wide area networks, or through any other type of connection that may be available. QFM may also be implemented directly on client computer , removing the need for server computer  in this example. Those skilled in the art will recognize that there are many other configurations capable of supporting a federated search.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220","230","220","240","250","220","210","240","250","240","250","220","210","250","260","270","280","210"]},"In some implementations, processing of queries to prepare them for execution by other locations may happen in a location passing a query to a next location. In other implementations, processing of queries may happen in client computer . In yet other implementations, one location may process queries for all other locations. Other implementations may centralize or distribute query processing in various ways.","In at least one implementation, user credentials will be passed along with a query, while in some other implementations, user credentials may not be used at all. In some implementations, user credentials may be used to obtain other security credentials that may be required for access to some locations. One skilled in the art will recognize that any security requirements may be handled in many different ways in different implementations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","321","322","323","324","1","2","3","320","340"]},"An administrative object manager  provides location information  to QFM. This location information  is used to determine if a location , , ,  should be searched (or called) based on triggers module . Triggers module  may include criteria such as whether the query  language can be matched to what a location (, , , ) requires, whether certain keywords or patterns are contained in query , whether a location provides high confidence results for the type of data being queried, or any other criterion or combination of criteria that is implemented.","Once a location to be called has been determined, the query  is mapped by map query module  to provide a processed query to match the location's requirements. For example, if the original query had referred to a field named \u201cauthor\u201d and the location had a similar field but it was named \u201cname,\u201d the map query module  would provide a processed query referring to \u201cname\u201d rather than \u201cauthor.\u201d In another example, if the original query used a different syntax for a query than the location did, map query module  would provide a processed query with an appropriate syntax for the location. In yet another example, map query module may update authentication information to allow access to the location. One skilled in the art will recognize that there are many ways that a query may need to be mapped to match a location's requirements. Once mapped, the processed query is submitted to the location. The triggers module and query map module are implemented for each of the selected locations.","In this example, location , location , location , and location n (, , , ) each receive processed queries. There may be any number of locations in other implementations. While this implementation shows the triggers module and query map module residing in the QFM, the function provided by these modules could be performed outside QFM, on other devices, or in different orders than those described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","1","350","351","352","353","320","120","410","410","340","321","322","323","324"]},"While the flowcharts described below show a particular ordering of steps, in other implementations steps may be performed in different orders than those shown, while in some implementations some steps may be performed simultaneously with other steps.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","520","120","530","530","120","330","540","550","560","540","550","560","560","570"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","530","610","620","120","630","410","640"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},"Although not required, embodiments of the invention will be described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","700","702","704","704","706"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement embodiments of the invention may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allow device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency, infrared, Near Field Communication (NFC), and other wireless media.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments of the invention. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device . Those skilled in the art will also realize that all or a portion of the computer readable instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit, such as a Digital Signal Processor (DSP), programmable logic array, and the like."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present description will be better understood from the following detailed description read in light of the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
