---
title: Method and system for providing a graphical workflow monitor
abstract: A browser based workflow monitor uses a graphical user interface (GUI) to display workflow status information and to create log information. The monitor presents the log information to a user in a format that is easily understood. Workflow information is accessed from a user workstation via a data network and displayed within a browser application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204851&OS=08204851&RS=08204851
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08204851
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070402
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Automation of organizational activities poses a tremendous challenge in that routine tasks associated with a particular service or product involve complex interactions between technology resources and human resources. Although communications technologies have assisted with increasing productivity, such technologies, traditionally, have been deployed in an ad hoc manner, resulting in inefficiencies with respect to resource utilization. Therefore, workflow management systems have been deployed; however, these systems constitute a significant investment above other infrastructure costs.","There is presently no simple, cost-effective way for a user to determine the precise point in a multi-step workflow process. Traditionally, workflow management tools require users to parse through workflow status logs in order to determine the process history and the current status of the workflow. To address this, users can install client software on their desktops; unfortunately, these software packages are vendor-specific and implementation-dependent. Furthermore, different workflow management products require installation of different software packages to view a particular workflow process.","Based on the foregoing, there is a clear need for approaches that enable a user to quickly and efficiently access information about a workflow process, avoiding manually intensive tasks and reliance on vendor-specific\/implementation-dependent software packages.","An apparatus, method, and software for providing workflow monitoring are described. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various exemplary embodiments. It is apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the various exemplary embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the exemplary embodiments.","Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to browser application, it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to any graphical user interface (GUI).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","103","105","101","105","103","103","107"]},"The workflow engine , in one embodiment, manages and executes modeled business processes. In addition, the workflow engine  may interpret the process definitions, and interact with workflow participants. In this example, workflows and associated activities are related to the service provider . A workflow relates to executing one task following another in accordance with specific business rules and conditions. Such workflow activities are processed by the workflow management system . The workflow engine  logs, for example, status information associated with the workflows; this process is more fully explained below. The resultant information from the analysis accessible by a browser application  (e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer\u2122, or Netscape\u2122, etc.), which is resident on a computing device . In this instance, the computing device  is a desktop personal computer; however, it is contemplated that the device  can include any device capable of supporting a browser application\u2014e.g., Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), web appliance, cellular phone, laptop, etc. The device  communicates with the workflow management system  via a data network ; this network  can include a public data network, such as the global Internet, as well as a private intranet. For example, a flow diagram, indicative of workflow history and\/or current status of the workflow associated with the activities of the service provider , can be displayed by the browser .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["103","201","105","107","103","201","103","105"]},"As seen, the workflow engine  provides workflow status information to the workflow monitor . An analysis module  receives such status information and creates a workflow log. The created workflow log is stored in a workflow log database  within the workflow monitor . Alternatively, the workflow log database  can be external to the workflow monitor . A workflow log interface  permits access to the workflow log database . The workflow log interface  also enables communication among the workflow engine  and the workflow instance database  via the workflow engine interface .","The workflow log database  passes the retrieved data, indicative of workflow status, along to a workflow monitor graphic engine . The workflow monitor graphic engine , receives, in addition to the workflow status from the workflow log interface , a workflow template from the workflow engine interface . The workflow status provides data indicative of the status of the workflow, while the workflow template provides formatting information\u2014i.e., in the form of tables and\/or diagrams\u2014to be used in displaying the workflow information. For example, the template can organize a detailed workflow process history by way of a tree-table (hierarchy) data structure and graphic presentation. In addition, the template can specify displaying the current running status of all tasks within a workflow via tables and diagrams.","A presentation interface  outputs the workflow information to the browser . In this manner, the flow diagrams and\/or tables may be displayed to the user, without requiring installation of any graphic display software packages at the user's computing device.","Additionally, if the workflow pauses for whatever reason (as, for example, manual work is needed, or an error condition has occurred, or the system is waiting for an external system to respond before proceeding, etc.), the workflow monitor  allows the user to view the current status and to manually intervene and perform tasks from the workflow monitor without the need to go through a conventional workflow task assignment user interface or to wait for a backend system to return in order to resume workflow based on the specific business requirement. This capability provides a substantial improvement over conventional systems, when dealing with flow recovery in a production environment.","The operation of the workflow monitor  is further detailed in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["301","105","303","305","205","205"]},"In step , workflow status information is generated from the data corresponding to the pertinent workflow within the workflow log database . Additionally, a template (e.g., graph, table, diagram, etc.) is generated or selected from a library of templates, as in step ; the particular template can depend on the type of workflow and corresponding activities. In step , presentation data is created by combining the template and the workflow status data. The presentation data, which may include, for example, historical data presented in a hierarchical data structure or current status of the workflow process presented in a diagram, is then made available to the user for display using a graphical user interface (GUI) , per step .","The display of the presentation data within a browser eliminates the need for users to install \u201cspecial\u201d software on their computing devices. Traditionally, a client machine required specific software installed thereon; such software package is vendor-specific and implementation dependent. In other words, a vendor would be provided with certain specifications regarding the user's system and the specific job the user wishes to be performed, and the vendor would design particular software specific to that system and to those needs. Furthermore, traditional workflow management systems provide no generic monitor that would enable a user to determine the process history and\/or current status of the workflow of a system without depending on a workflow management product from a particular vendor.","By contrast, with the workflow management system  of , a user may view operations regarding a particular workflow process by accessing the information through a ubiquitous browser-type application, thereby eliminating the need for any special, vendor-specific and implementation-dependent software packages.","Exemplary GUI screens are next described with respect to . For the purposes of explanation, these screens, which can be displayed by the browser , pertain to a service provisioning workflow for the service provider .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["400","401","403","403","405","407"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 5 and 6","FIGS. 5 and 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","500","501","503"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","601"]},"As can be appreciated, these flow diagrams for display to the user can become rather large and complicated. Therefore, in order to better view certain portions of the process diagrams, Zoom-in and Zoom-out buttons  and , respectively, are provided.","While the billing inquiry diagram example of  is relatively simple, certain processes may become very complicated and the need for the zoom-in and zoom-out feature becomes readily apparent. It should be understood that the zoom feature is applicable to both diagram displays of the current status of the workflow process, and historical graphical presentations, e.g., tree-tables, of the workflow process and\/or combinations of such diagrams and graphical presentations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 6 and 7"],"b":["700","701","703","705","707","709","711"]},"In the example shown in , a user right clicks on an instance and a pop-up menu is displayed. From this pop-up menu, a user may select, at , Instance Status or Instance History. Assuming Instance Status is selected, a Workflow Instance Status diagram as in  is displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","801","803","801"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["901","900","903","901"]},"Should a user click on the \u201cView\/Edit Application and Flow State\u201d link  shown in , the user is brought to a screen depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 7","FIG. 11"],"b":["1000","1001","713"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1101"]},"The processes described herein for providing workflow monitoring may be implemented via software, hardware (e.g., general processor, Digital Signal Processing (DSP) chip, an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), etc.), firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1200","1201","1203","1201","1200","1205","1201","1203","1205","1203","1200","1207","1201","1203","1209","1201"]},"The computer system  may be coupled via the bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display, active matrix display, or plasma display, for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys, for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor  and for controlling cursor movement on the display .","According to one embodiment contemplated herein, the processes described are performed by the computer system , in response to the processor  executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory  causes the processor  to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement certain embodiments. Thus, the exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  connected to a local network . For example, the communication interface  may be a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or modem, an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, a cable modem, a telephone modem, or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card (e.g. for Ethernet\u2122 or an Asynchronous Transfer Model (ATM) network) to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further, the communication interface  can include peripheral interface devices, such as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, a PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) interface, etc. Although a single communication interface  is depicted in , multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.","The network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, the network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer , which has connectivity to a network  (e.g. a wide area network (WAN) or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d) or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network  and the network  both use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link  and through the communication interface , which communicate digital data with the computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.","The computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), the network link , and the communication interface . In the Internet example, a server (not shown) might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an exemplary embodiment through the network , the local network  and the communication interface . The processor  may execute the transmitted code while being received and\/or store the code in the storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, the computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic, optical, or electromagnetic waves, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer-readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example, the instructions for carrying out various embodiments may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario, the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA) or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory, from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.","In the preceding specification, various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto, and additional embodiments may be implemented, without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that flow. The specification and the drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 and 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
