---
title: Universal gates for ising TQFT via time-tilted interferometry
abstract: Experiments suggest that the mathematically weakest non-abelian TQFT may be physically the most robust. Such TQFT's—the v=5/2 FQHE state in particular—have discrete braid group representations, so one cannot build a universal quantum computer from these alone. Time tilted interferometry provides an extension of the computational power (to universal) within the context of topological protection. A known set of universal gates has been realized by topologically protected methods using “time-tilted interferometry” as an adjunct to the more familiar method of braiding quasi-particles. The method is “time-tilted interferometry by quasi-particles.” The system is its use to construct the gates {g1, g2, g3}.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07427771&OS=07427771&RS=07427771
owner: Mircosoft Corporation
number: 07427771
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071119
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/245,964, filed Oct. 7, 2005.","In Quantum invariants of 3-manifolds and quantum computation (\u201cBK\u201d), Bravyi and Kitaev constructed a universal set of gates {g, g, g} for the Ising TQFT, the principle component of the Moore Read model for",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["5","2"]},"mo":"-","mi":"FQHE"}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 ","3"]},"For a laboratory device, the relevant space-time should embed in R\u00d7R. It seems almost certain that simply adding this constraint to the Bravyi\/Kitaev context prevents the construction of a complete gate set. However, if a certain assumption is added to their model\u2014i.e., that the topological changes 1, \u03c3 and \u03b5 can be distinguished on a simple (framed) loop \u03b3 in space-time\u2014then {g, g, g} may be realized in 2+1 dimensions. Projecting to the charge sectors 1, \u03c3 and \u03b5 extends the discussion of Topologically-Protected Qubits from a Possible Non-Abelian Fractional Quantum Hall State, by Das Sarma, Freedman, and Nayak (\u201cDFN\u201d), in which interferometry was proposed to distinguish the 1 and \u03b5 changes. By an extension of DFN, an interferometry measurement should be able to resolve the identity into the sum of three projectors: 1d={circumflex over (1)}\u2295{circumflex over (\u03c3)}\u2295{circumflex over (\u03b5)}. A further generalization, however, is needed.","A logical gate for a quantum computer can be achieved by forming a Polyakov loop in the space-time of a fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE) fluid, and determining a charge on the Polyakov loop. Time-tilted interferometry provides a mechanism by which to measure charge on Polyakov loops, which extend over time and cannot be deformed into a single time slice. Measuring charge on Polyakov loops is equivalent to using exotic topologies as in BK. The jump from the physically-impossible world of BK to the physically possible world is the recognition that measuring the charge on the Polyakov loops is the equivalent of BK's exotic topologies. Thus, a probabilistic realization of BK's gates can be achieved with enough fidelity to be tantamount to a realization of BK's gates.","To break the fluid, a current may be injected at the first antidot at a first time. The voltage may be turned on at a later time to create a gap (thus beginning the formation of a Polyakov loop). The voltage may be removed at a still later time to heal the gap (thus closing the Polyakov loop). The current may then be removed to ground and measured. Measurement of the output current will cause the \u201cparticle\u201d to converge to an eigenstate (i.e., |1> or |\u03b5>). If the measured current is relatively high, then the Polyakov loop is in a first state (e.g., |1> or |\u03b5>). If the measured current is relatively low, then the Polyakov loop is in a second state (e.g., |1> or |\u03b5>, respectively).","By adding gammas, one can determine whether a |1> or |\u03b5> particle is in the Polyakov loop. It should be understood that there may never really be an epsilon particle in the Polyakov loop, but it behaves as if there is. Using time-tilted interferometry, one can determine whether the Polyakov loop is in a |1> state or and |\u03b5> state.","There is no tunneling path when the fluid is broken. The fluid may be broken by increasing the voltage on a gate to separate the Hall bar into two smaller bars. It should be understood that an actual break in the fluid is not necessary. Any separation of the anti-dots (e.g., electrically or spatially) so that no tunneling can occur is sufficient.","A particle can start to tunnel before the bar is broken, linger between the antidots while the gap is present, and get across to the other antidot after the gap is repaired. Likewise, a particle can start to tunnel before the bar is broken, and get past the area where the Polyakov loop is formed, but have an amplitude such that it lingers on the other side of the loop until the gap is closed before getting to the second antidot.","It should be understood that there might be a classical electromagnetic contribution that needs to be calibrated out. That is, classical phase shifts must be calibrated away. To calibrate, the bar is not broken (equivalent to having |1> particle, which is no particle at all). The current drawn out to ground can be measured in the absence of a break in the fluid. Then, the fluid can be broken, a determination can be made as to whether anything changed as a result. If nothing changes, then the particle is in a |1> state. If the current changes, then the particle is in an |\u03b5> state. Accordingly, in operation, if the measured current is the same as the calibrated current, then the particle is in a |1> state. Otherwise, the particle is in an |\u03b5> state.","To realize gates gand gone must measure interference between paths \u03b3and \u03b3, which cannot simultaneously be projected into any (planar) space-time-slice. The techniques described herein are analogous to a \u201ctwinkling\u201d double slit experiment where the two slits rapidly open and close and though never simultaneously open, produce an interference pattern. Such a technique may be referred to as \u201ctilted interferometry\u201d since the loop \u03b3=\u03b3\u222a\u03b3may have the property that it cannot be deformed into any single time-slice and so is tilted in space-time. It has been suggested that \u201ctilted interferometry\u201d is analogous to the second, electric Arharonov-Bohm effect, where case A, must vary in time as the particle passes. As described below, the domain of the FQHE fluid will vary in time. It should be understood that interferometry may not be possible along any knotted loop \u03b3, but only fairly simple \u03b3s are necessary. To build the gates gand g, the link along which interferometry is done has only one local max (min) per component, i.e., is the \u201cplat of a pure braid.\u201d The third gate, g, is a simple braid generator and requires no discussion here.","For reference:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"\u2148","mo":"\/","mn":"4"}}}}]}]}}},{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}}],"mo":[",",",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"and"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002-2","num":"00002.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"i"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mi":"i"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"i"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"i"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}}}}],"br":{}},"In this section, we briefly describe model experiments in the context of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["5","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"FQHE"}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["5","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"FQHE"}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 2"]},"We ignore the U(1)-semion charges and the classical B\u00b7A phase to concentrate our attention on the more interesting nonabelian Ising charges:\n\n1=, \u03c3=|, and \u03b5=\n\nthat is, trivial, spin=\u00bd, and spin=1. Using the Kauffman rules:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"A","mo":"\u2062"},{"msup":{"mi":"A","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mi":"A","mo":"=","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","\u2148"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mn":"8"}}}],"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"8.55mm","wi":"25.40mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"A","mn":"2"},{"mi":"A","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"="}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"d"},"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"-"}},{"mi":"d","mo":"=","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}],"mo":","}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 2","sub":["1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["For","x"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mtext":":"}}],"mo":"="}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007-2","num":"00007.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["Tunneling","current"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"]}},{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"]}}],"mo":"+"},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007-3","num":"00007.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["in","units","charge"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c3"}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"e","mn":"4"},"mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"For"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"x"},{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mtext":":"}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007-4","num":"00007.4"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["Tunneling","current"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"mi":"t","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"]}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}}}],"br":[{},{},{}],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00003","he":"3.13mm","wi":"7.03mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00003.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00004","he":"3.13mm","wi":"4.23mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00004.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00005","he":"3.56mm","wi":"8.81mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00005.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00006","he":"3.56mm","wi":"8.81mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00006.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00007","he":"3.56mm","wi":"8.81mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00006.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"e","sup":"\u2212i\u03c0\/4"},"For x=\u03b5:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["Tunneling","current"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"-"},"mo":"=","mn":"0."}}}}]}}}},"Formally these three outcomes for x=1, \u03c3, \u03b5 are quite distinct. Up to now, we have here only considered the \u03c3-tunneling current. One would also expect a smaller temperature dependent contribution from \u03b5-tunneling which would have to be added to the calculations above. There would be terms:\n\ncase 1:\u2032, \u2003\u20031.\n\ncase \u2032, and \u2003\u20032.\n\ncase \u2032=0 \u2003\u20033.\n\nrespectively. In any case there is ample independence to expect a relatively simple interferometry measurement around x to project into one of the three sectors 1, \u03c3, or \u03b5.\n","If a simple loop \u03b3 lies in a FQHE liquid at time =t we may project onto particle states 1, \u03c3, or \u03b5 along \u03c3 by an experiment which is a geometric distortion of, but topologically identical to, .  depicts a plane filled with FQHE fluid except for two distorted anti-dots Dand D. The asterisks represent quasi-particles. If we could measure the tunneling current between them (and vary area A as we do so), we project to a collective charge 1, \u03c3, or \u03b5 along \u03b3. The experiment suggested by  is not tilted but describable within a time slice.","Let us now take up tilted interferometry with \u03c3 particles. The basic ideas is that we expect technological limitations to confine us to planar puddles of FQHE fluids at any times slice (i.e., no \u201coverpasses\u201d). Just as with MOSFET technology, planarity can be a severe constraint. But suppose a band of material (e.g., FQHE fluid) A is blocking a new band B which we wish to construct, might we break A, allow B to pass, use B for whatever purpose, break B, and then reconstitute A? If we could measure the charge around the resulting time-like hole \u03b3 in A (see ) and if we found charge =1, it would be, as far as SU(2)\u2014Chern-Simons theory were concerned, as if A were never broken.","In this vein, consider the resistance between anti-dots Dand Dcontained in A over a period of time in which A is broken and rejoined. If this time A is broken is comparable to the tunneling time between Dand D(and various delays such as tortuous contours of the FQHE fluid might be employed to achieve this) then the resistance should depend on differences between the upper \u03b3and lower \u03b3tunneling trajectories as in . We suppose, here, that the experimental set-up is such that current is injected into Dnear tthen withdrawn from Dnear time t.","We turn to the types of measurement needed to yield gates gand g. In designing a gate, \u03b3 might become complicated, needing to avoid some regions of space-time and pass through others. In principle \u03b3 might be a knotted in (2+1)\u2014space-time. Fortunately, we only will need to measure the topological charge on a loop \u03b3 with one max and one min in space-time (or a multi-loop where each component simultaneously shares this property).","For a simple loop on the boundary of (2+1)\u2014space-time the projection into change super selection sectors",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mover":{"mn":"1","mo":"^"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2297","mrow":{"mi":["charges","a"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":"a","mo":"^"}}}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B","sub":["1 ","2"]},"Let us consider the physical meaning of the framings on the Polyakov loop is and how it might be dictated. First, how do we think of a tunneling particle? As a Brownian path or a smooth arc? In the former case it might be impossible to assign a framing number, but energy considerations and the finite size of quasi-particles suggest that we should think that most of the amplitude across a tunneling junction is concentrated on the isotopy class of the obvious straight (and zero framed) arc across the junction. We assume that the quasi-particles do not carry angular momentum while they tunnel.","A similar issue arises if we transport a quasi-particle on a moving anti-dot. How do we control the rotation of the quasi-particle on the dot? This question is crucial, for without an answer, there is no distinction between doing (titled) interferometry on \u03b6with framing=\u22121(\u03b6\u22121) and interferometry on (\u03b6, 0). We will need to control the framing of the space-time arcs along which we transport antidots. A possible answer is to create an asymmetry: e.g., a \u201ctear drop\u201d shaped anti-dot so that it has a natural base point to record rotation. Whether this is another gimmick, such as using an impurity on an edge to serve as a base point, can control framing seems to depend on the detailed local physics and not be accessible from the effective low energy description, so lies outside the scope of this description. However, exercising experimental control of the framing along the legs of the interferometer appears to be an essential requirement.","Interferometry depends on maintaining a superposition among possible tunneling events. It will be challenging to avoid \u201cmeasurement\u201d as the geometry and\/or position of Din the FQHE fluid is changed, but we see no fundamental reason that this should not be possible. It has been suggested that a \u201cbucket brigade\u201d of anti-dots may be easier to implement than electro-statically moving an anti-dot. These approaches should be functionally equivalent.","The qubits to be manipulated are spanned by the two fusion channels in the Ising CFT:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00002","num":"00002"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00002","he":"11.77mm","wi":"27.69mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-C00002.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sup":"2 ","figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"]},"The representation depicted in  follows from the braiding rules of the Ising TQFT. This gate requires no interferometry of any kind, it is simply a braid matrix. Unfortunately the braid matrices in the Ising TQFT define discrete subgroups of PSU(N) so we are forced to use interferometry (or forbidden topology) to complete the gate set.","The next gate we consider",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},"mo":"."}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["x ","z","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\u201c","\u201d"],"mrow":{"mi":["controlled","NOT"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}}},"br":{},"sub":"2"},"First we recapitulate in a geometric language the BK description which involves time slices with \u201coverpasses,\u201d i.e., FQHE fluids which cannot lie in the plane. Then we will rearrange the time coordinate and otherwise adjust the protocol so as we use only planar fluids in each time-slice. The price will be the need to use \u201ctitled interferometry\u201d to project onto SU(2)\u2014charge sectors along loops \u03b3 which are titled in space-time.","The sum of the charges on the two resulting boundary components \u03b4 and \u03c8 () is 1 or \u03b5 according to whether the charge along the overpass (dotted loop, \u03b1) is 1\u2212\u03b5 or \u03c3. This follows from the S-matrices of the theory:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","ij"],"mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}}]}]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"\u03c3,\u03c3","sup":["\u03b5","i\u03c0\/4 "]},"Ordinary, untilted, interferometry along \u03c8 projects into one of the states 1 or \u03b5. We hope to be in the sector charge \u03c8=1 and the probability of this is 0.5, because 1 and \u03b5 have equal quantum dimensions and therefore equal entropy. If we are disappointed, we simply break the overpass and then reconstitute it. Breaking the overpass returns the qubit to its original state. This follows from a general principle, which is described in the Appendix below, that adding quantum media is reversible simply by deleting what was added (whereas deleting quantum media is generally irreversible). Reconstituting the band yields an independent 0.5 chance of getting the desired trivial charge on \u03c8. We repeat as necessary until charge (\u03c8)=1 is observed. Now charge (\u03b4) and charge (\u03b1) are perfectly correlated; charge (\u03b1)=\u03c3 charge (\u03b4)=\u03b5 and charge (\u03b1)=1 or \u03b5 charge (\u03b4)=1.","So far we have been manipulating the pants P supporting the control qubit. Now take the \u201ccontrolled\u201d qubit and pass it, as a body, around \u03b1 (see ). The skein relations shown in  tell us that the controlled qubit picks up a phase of \u22121 if it is in state |\u03b5 and is unchanged if it is in state |1. Finally, cut the overpass to return the two pants to their original position. The effect is g.  summarizes our reorganization of g. For clarity,  is reproduced (expect for the detour through (\u03be)) in the slices in . To avoid clutter, we omitted an additional boundary component made from the space-time histories of the edges of an anti-dot D that divides into Dand D, which moves and later merges back into D as shown in .","In , we do ordinary interferometry along the \u03be curves and tilted interferometry along \u03b3=D\u00d7 time \u222aD\u00d7 time \u222at\u222at. In other words, we begin forming the \u201coverpass\u201d band B, but now in space-time, and send the controlled qubit, q, down the \u201cband\u201d B as it is found. After a time, the right puncture of the pants supporting the control qubit, qsplits and we measure the SU(2)-charge along \u03be, hoping to observe 1. This would mean that the channel (diagonal in ) through which the band B is traveling does not disturb the structure of q.","There are four (equally likely if we neglect energetics associated to electric charge) topological charge splittings",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00003","num":"00003"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00003","he":"11.35mm","wi":"31.58mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-C00003.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","1","i","i","1 ","2 "],"figref":"FIG. 14"},"First, it is clear that the abortive attempts at building the band, \u03be, . . . \u03be, to not affect the qubit q(except possibly by an irrelevant overall phase): splitting a into b{circle around (x)}c and then re-fusing results in the original particle type,  is a multiple of the ideality. The \u201ccontrol\u201d qubit qis clearly unaffected since the phase of the operator represent by the insert drawing is independent, by locality, of the state, 1 or \u03b5, of the overall qubit q.","As before, qwill control a phase gate",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["2 ","1 ","2 ","1 ","2","i"],"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},"mo":"."}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and"}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},"mo":"."}}},"br":{}},"Perhaps more serious is the fact that the anti-dots Dand Dmust be threaded, along with q, through the band B. Dand Dshould be kept outside tunneling range and the two \u03c3 charges inside the pants Pcarrying qmust not be fused. This implies some geometric constraints. Clearly the size of the pants Psupporting qmust be enlarged, relative to the pants Psupporting qbefore qcan be used to control the phase of q. This will be only one of many technological challenges.","With this example of a gate implementation in hand, it makes sense to discuss the general strategy and fundamental principles involved. The general 3-manifold M with boundary does not imbed in R=R\u00d7R but after puncturing M by removing a collection of proper arcs M\u2032=M\\arcs will imbed. If the linking circle to a puncturing arc is measured to have charge=1 then the puncture is irrelevant (at least within an SU(2)-Chem-Simons theory). Thus, the strategy is to find some protocol of puncturing and measuring which reduces the topologically intricate gates of BK to a sequence of planar time-slices.","Note that, in calculating the SU(2)-CS partition function Z for the space-time history of a puddle of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["5","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"FQHE"}}}},"br":{},"sup":"3"},"Suppose a pair of \u03c3's is pulled out of the vacuum and then fused. They will annihilate. If, however, after their births, the fluid is cut to separate them, all correlation is lost. If the fluid is then rejoined and the \u03c3's fused the results will be 1 with probability \u00bd and \u03b5 with probability \/ (see ). Similarly since the S-matrix entry S=0 two simply linked \u03c3 trajectories cannot occur in a box of space-time fluid, but can occur if only part of the box is filled with 5\/2's fluid (see ).","The preceding discussion applies only to the SU(2)-sector of the theory. We have been suppressing the fact that CFT modeling",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":["5","2"]}}}},"br":{}},"We turn now to the final gate",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0\u2148","mo":"\/","mn":"4"}}}]}]}},"mo":"."}}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 11","sup":["2","2","2","2","2 ","2","i\u03c0\/8","2","\u03c0i\/4 ","2"],"b":["1","2","3"],"sub":["1","1","\u03b5","1","\u03b5","\u03c3"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00019","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00020","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mi":"\u025b"}},"mo":"."}}}}},"Our proposed implementation of gclosely follows this 3-step description. To understand the protocol, refer back to . Most of the figure depicts activity on P with the second pants Pbeing threaded through a passage roughly from southeast to northwest. Since gis a 1-qubit gate, we dispense entirely with P; instead we thread two unlinked loops, with framing \u22121, \u03b6and \u03b6through this channel as sketch  (to be \u201coverlain\u201d on ). We will need to use tilted interferometry to measure \u03c8, \u03b6, and \u03b6. Thus each \u03b6, i=1,2, consists of a moving anti-dot Dcarrying a \u03c3-particle accompanied by companion anti-dots D\u2032 and D\u2033 (moving or in \u201cbucket-brigade\u201d) with a well defined base point determining framing (\u03b6\u22121). The role of Dis to carry a meridional \u03c3-charge while tunneling |t\u2212t| is measured between D\u2032 and D\u2033.","We have added a new feature, we have assumed that in preparing the anti-dots D, that we can pull out of the vacuum and later annihilate at\u00b1pair of \u03c3 s these have an electrostatic",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"charge","mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"e","mn":"4"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i"],"sup":["\u22121","31 1"],"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00021","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"S","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}}]}]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["and","T"]},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":"\u2148\u03c0","mo":"\/","mn":"8"}}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":{},"sup":["\u22121","\u22121"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00022","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00023","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00024","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-P00014.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"Ignoring the measurements \u03be. . . \u03bewhich create the |1-labeled passage between the inner punctures of P as in , we must execute three titled measurements along \u03c8, \u03be, and \u03be. We have just shown that in all cases the outcomes for charge (\u03be) and charge (\u03be) are independent and either 1 or \u03b5. We previously verified charge (\u03c8)=1 or \u03b5. From this it will follow that the protocol produces",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"g","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"\u00b1","mi":"\u03c0\u2148"},"mo":"\/","mn":"4"}}}]}]}},"mo":"\u2003"}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msup":{"mi":"e","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"\u00b1","mi":"\u03c0\u2148"},"mo":"\/","mn":"4"}}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","1","2","1 ","1","1"],"sup":"\u22121"},"It should be understood that, in terms of BK, measuring charge \u03c8 as in , corresponds to measuring the charge on \u03c8 of . Measuring the charges on \u03b6and \u03b6correspond to the double Dehn twist in a manner which will now be described.","As described above, projection to charge sectors on a loop \u03b3 does not become well-defined (or even the eigenspaces themselves) until \u03b3 has a normal framing. If the physical Hilbert space V(T) for a torus T is V=span {1, \u03c3, \u03b5} in the longitudinal basis L if we wish to transform to the framing=k basis, L+kM=longitude+k(meridian), we must compute as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00004","num":"00004"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00004","he":"4.57mm","wi":"75.61mm","file":"US07427771-20080923-C00004.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sup":["\u22121","k"]},"The curves \u03b6and \u03b6have been described as having framing=\u22121 this means the tip of the frame vector links \u22121 with its base as it moves around the loop and that k, above is \u22121. It is a fundamental identity of the \u201cKirby calculus\u201d that \u22121\u2014framed surgery on a simple linking circle imparts a +1-Dehn twist, as depicted in .","The meaning of \u201csurgery,\u201d as that term is used herein, is that a tubular neighborhood of the loop is deleted and then glued back so that the meridian disk is glued to the circle defined by the tip of the frame vector. Obviously, we can neither twist nor surger Gallium Arsenide, but if we measure the particle content of a (framed) loop \u03b3 in the interior of a 2+1-dimensional space-time, and the result is 1, we have (up to an overall normalization factor, corresponding to capping a 2-sphere) accomplished surgery on \u03b3 as far as Chern-Simons theory is concerned. Similarly, if we measure a nontrivial particle \u03c3 or \u03b5 we have still done a kind of surgery but now the reglued solid torus has a particle \u201cPolyakov loop\u201d (\u03c3 or \u03b5 resp.) running along its core. This is \u03c3(\u03b5)=Z (solid torus, Polyakov loop) \u03b5V(T) expressed in meridinal basis.","From the S-matrices, we know that (w.r.t., the labeling in ) charge (\u03b1)=1\u2212\u03b5iff charge (\u03c8)\u00b7charge (\u03b4)=1 and charge (\u03b1)=\u03c3iff charge (\u03c8)\u00b7charge (\u03b4)=\u03b5. Thus the nontrivial phase arises in the upper left or lower right entry of our gate-matrix according to whether charge (\u03c8)=1 or \u03b5.","In translating between , \u03b1 corresponds to untwisted copies of the \u03b6's, (\u03b6,0) and (\u03b6,0). Measuring (\u03b6,\u22121) and (\u03b6,\u22121) results in a squared Dehn twist around a with two Polyakov loops appearing, labeled by some particle type 1 or \u03b5, (but not \u03c3!) parallel to \u03b1, say at \u03b1\u00d7\u2153 and \u03b1\u00d7\u2154 in a product structure.","The Polyakov loops cannot carry \u03c3 since STS|\u03c3=\u221a{square root over (2)}\/2|1+\u221a{square root over (2)}\/2|\u03b5. Because two \u03b5's must fuse to 1, only the total charge, charge (\u03b6,\u22121)\u00b7charge (\u03b6,\u22121)=1 or \u03b5 is relevant to the action of the gate. There are two cases: when charge (\u03b4)\u00b7charge (\u03b5)=1, then charge (\u03b1)=1\u2212\u03b5, and the effect of an \u03b5-Polyakov loop can be localized as that of a \u03b5-core circle\u00d7\u00bd in annulus\u00d7[0, 1], where the boundaries of the annulus are labeled by |1 (or |\u03b5). With either labeling, the \u03b5-Polyakov loop contributes no additional phase. In contrast, in the second case when charge (\u03b4)\u00b7charge (\u03c8)=\u03b5 and charge (\u03b1)=\u03c3, the localized model is an \u03b5-Polyakov loop at level \u00bd in annulus\u00d7[0, 1] with boundaries labeled by \u03c3 (see ). In this case the Polyakov loop contributes a phase-1. The phase which the \u03b5-Polyakov loop adds to the identity (product) morphism is:\n\n=11;=\u22121,=\u03c3;and=1,\n\nThus it has been shown that our protocol implements gor gaccording to whether charge (\u03c8)\u00b7charge (\u03b6, \u22121)\u00b7charge (\u03b6,\u22121)=1 or \u03b5.\n\nThe Effect of Adding or Deleting 1-Handles to Pants \u00d7I.\n","The time history of adding and then breaking a band between the inner boundary components \u03b2,\u03c9 or a twice punctured disk P is topologically the addition of a 1-handle (D\u00d7D,\u2202D\u00d7D) to P\u00d7I; call the result W=P\u00d7I\u222a1-handle (see ). As shown in , W is drawn with time \u2260 Z-coordinate since the add\/break procedure for the band B does not imbed in (2+1)-dimensions.","While it is axiomatic that products correspond in a TQFT to identity morphisms, it is a small calculation that W induces the identity (rather than say a phase gate) on the qubit supported on P. The general principle is that if a surface which bounds a 3-manifold is broken up into sub-surfaces by (particle) labeled loops, then the 3-manifold canonically specifies a vector in the tensor product of the (relative) physical Hilbert spaces.","Letting x=1 or \u03b5 for the outer label, W specifies a vector \u03c8 in: V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V* {circle around (x)}V, where the factors come from subsurfaces , . . . ,  in . The zero label in the first three factors is dictated by the presence of the disks in W capping the boundary of the first component (a cylinder). The gluing axion [W] or [T] tells us that removing the 1 -handle determines a canonical isomorphism to Z(P\u00d7I) carrying \u03c8to \u03c8in V*{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V{circle around (x)}V*{circle around (x)}V. After supplying the canonical base vectors \u03b2*\u03b5V*, \u03b2\u03b5V and \u03b2\u03b5V,\u03c8is canonically identified with id\u03b5. Hom (V)\u2245V*{circle around (x)}V. Note that no x-dependent phase has entered the calculation. Thus we have proved, in the abstract language of TQFTs, that adding and then breaking a band induces the identity operator on the qubit supported in P.","The situation is rather different if, instead we cut out a band to join the internal punctures and then restore it. In other words, fuse the internal punctures and then separate them. We will even assume that we can use the electric charge of the \u03c3, which we take to be",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"+","mfrac":{"mi":"e","mn":"4"}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027","num":"00027"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"+","mfrac":{"mi":"e","mn":"4"}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00028","num":"00028"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":["\u2245","\u2245"],"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},"mo":"+","mi":"\u03b2"},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 22"},"In particle flight (Feynmann diagram) notation  is either  or , according to the charge of \u03b3.  certainly represents the identity acting on the P-qubit. The operator given by  is clearly diagonal in the (1,\u03b5)basis. To compute the phases of the diagonal entries we pair with the orthonormal exterior basis, (, \u221a{square root over (2)}) and use the Kauffman relations to extract expectation values. In case a we get:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00029","num":"00029"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":",","mi":"and"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00029-2","num":"00029.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062"}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"-","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"."},"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}],"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00030","num":"00030"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062"},{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062"}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"--"},"msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"="}}},"mo":",","mi":"and"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00030-2","num":"00030.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":["-","-","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062"},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062"},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062"}]}}},{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mo":"-","mrow":{"msqrt":{"mn":"2"},"mo":"."}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}],"br":[{},{}],"sub":["00","\u03b5\u03b5","xx "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},"Although not required, the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface (API), for use by a developer or tester, and\/or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by one or more computers (e.g., client workstations, servers, or other devices). Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers (PCs), automated teller machines, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based systems, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. An embodiment of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"With reference to , an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus (also known as Mezzanine bus).","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), Electrically-Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, compact disc read-only memory (CDROM), digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared, and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as ROM  and RAM . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . RAM  may contain other data and\/or program modules.","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk , such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in  provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device , commonly referred to as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit -through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus , but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB).","A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to monitor , computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer  or other client devices can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard, the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units, and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. An embodiment of the present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment, having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device, having programming language functionality, interpretation and execution capabilities.","Though the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments depicted in the various figures, it should be understood that other similar embodiments may be used, and that modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiments for practicing the invention without deviating therefrom. The invention, therefore, should not be limited to any single embodiment, but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A and 16B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18","sub":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 23A and 23B","FIG. 22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
