---
title: MEMS type thermally actuated out-of-plane lever
abstract: A MEMS apparatus includes a substrate; electrical contacts disposed on the substrate; a thermal arch beam supported by and connected between the contacts, the thermal arch beam including a midpoint and a protrusion located at about the midpoint; a lever having an axis of rotation and a bearing surface upon which the protrusion is operable to bear, a pair of lever supports disposed on the substrate for rotatably supporting the lever about the axis of rotation, an area of contact between the protrusion and the bearing surface being positioned vertically between the axis of rotation and the plane of the substrate. A voltage difference between the electrical contacts causes the thermal arch beam to move horizontally in the plane and the protrusion to bear against the lever causing rotation of the lever out of the plane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07692127&OS=07692127&RS=07692127
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07692127
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070326
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereof.","The invention relates in general to microelectromechanical (MEMS) devices and in particular to MEMS devices that provide deflection out of the plane of the MEMS substrate.","Conventional systems for guiding missiles or projectiles in flight use canards, or small wing-like structures, to steer the projectile. These structures are large (approximately 3\u2033 in length) and require motors to actuate. The stabilizing fins on the projectile have to be increased in size to counteract the effect the canards have of moving the center of pressure forward.","A MEMS control surface can reduce drag and hence increase the range of projectiles by eliminating the drag associated with canards and reducing the drag of the fins. In addition, MEMS control surfaces may reduce volume, weight, and power requirements, further increasing the projectile's range. Another added benefit of the MEMS control surface is the reduction of cost associated with batch fabrication techniques.","Known MEMS devices for producing a mechanical deflection include various types of thermally actuated beams, including cantilever and arch beams. These beams have proven successful in producing a deflection in the plane of the MEMS substrate. Devices such as projectile control surfaces, however, require a deflection out of the plane of the MEMS substrate, that is, in a direction perpendicular to the MEMS substrate.","One MEMS type apparatus that provides out-of-plane deflection is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5,824,910 issued on Oct. 20, 1998 and entitled \u201cMiniature Hydrostat Fabricated Using Multiple Microelectromechanical Processes.\u201d Another MEMS type apparatus that provides out-of-plane deflection is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6,069,392 issued on May 30, 2000 and entitled \u201cMicrobellows Apparatus.\u201d These two U.S. patents are expressly incorporated by reference. A third MEMS type apparatus that provides out-of-plane deflection is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6,474,593 issued on Nov. 5, 2002 and entitled \u201cGuided Bullet.\u201d","The vertical deflection of a single diaphragm apparatus, like the hydrostat mentioned above, is limited by the diameter of the diaphragm and its thickness. A micro bellows apparatus is able to deliver much greater vertical deflections for a similar sized device. However, the deflections required to make an effective control surface are many times greater than a micro bellows alone can provide. The electrostatically actuated curved beam shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6,474,593 cannot withstand high-speed flow forces. A suitable control surface can be realized by combining a thermal arch beam apparatus with a lever that is rotatable out of plane.","It is an aspect of the invention to provide a MEMS apparatus that can provide vertical deflection, out of the plane of the MEMS substrate.","It is another aspect of the invention to provide a MEMS apparatus that can provide vertical deflections larger than known MEMS apparatus.","Yet another aspect of the invention is to provide a MEMS apparatus that is operable as a control surface for high-speed projectiles","One aspect of the invention is a MEMS apparatus including a substrate defining a plane; a pair of electrical contacts disposed on the substrate; a thermal arch beam supported by and connected between the contacts, the thermal arch beam including a midpoint and a protrusion located at about the midpoint; a lever having an axis of rotation and a bearing surface upon which the protrusion is operable to bear; and a pair of lever supports disposed on the substrate for rotatably supporting the lever about the axis of rotation, an area of contact between the protrusion and the bearing surface being positioned vertically between the axis of rotation and the plane of the substrate; where a voltage difference between the pair of electrical contacts causes the thermal arch beam to move horizontally in the plane and the protrusion to bear against the lever causing rotation of the lever out of the plane. In an alternative embodiment, the lever further includes an opening formed in one end for receiving the protrusion of the thermal arch beam.","An embodiment of the MEMS apparatus includes openings in each of the pair of lever supports, a through hole in the lever and an axle disposed in the through hole and the openings in the lever supports, the axle being free to rotate with respect to the lever and the lever supports.","A second embodiment of the MEMS apparatus includes openings in each of the pair of lever supports and an axle fixed to the lever, the axle being disposed in the openings in the lever supports and free to rotate with respect to the lever supports.","A third embodiment of the MEMS apparatus includes a through hole in the lever and an axle fixed to the pair of lever supports, the axle being disposed in the through hole in the lever and free to rotate with respect to the lever.","A fourth embodiment of the MEMS apparatus includes an axle fixed to the lever and the pair of lever supports, the axle comprising a torsion spring operable to twist as the ramp rotates.","Another aspect of the invention is a projectile including a flow surface; and at least one MEMS apparatus including a substrate defining a plane; a pair of electrical contacts disposed on the substrate; a thermal arch beam supported by and connected between the contacts, the thermal arch beam including a midpoint and a protrusion located at about the midpoint; a lever having an axis of rotation and a bearing surface upon which the protrusion is operable to bear; and a pair of lever supports disposed on the substrate for rotatably supporting the lever about the axis of rotation, an area of contact between the protrusion and the bearing surface being positioned vertically between the axis of rotation and the plane of the substrate; where a voltage difference between the pair of electrical contacts causes the thermal arch beam to move horizontally in the plane and the protrusion to bear against the lever causing rotation of the lever out of the plane; the MEMS apparatus being disposed at the flow surface such that, in an off position of the MEMS apparatus the lever is substantially flush with the flow surface and in an on position of the MEMS apparatus the lever extends out of a plane of the flow surface.","An embodiment of the projectile includes openings in each of the pair of lever supports, a through hole in the lever and an axle disposed in the through hole and the openings in the lever supports, the axle being free to rotate with respect to the lever and the lever supports.","A second embodiment of the projectile includes openings in each of the pair of lever supports and an axle fixed to the lever, the axle being disposed in the openings in the lever supports and free to rotate with respect to the lever supports.","A third embodiment of the projectile includes a through hole in the lever and an axle fixed to the pair of lever supports, the axle being disposed in the through hole in the lever and free to rotate with respect to the lever.","A fourth embodiment of the projectile includes an axle fixed to the lever and the pair of lever supports, the axle comprising a torsion spring operable to twist as the ramp rotates.","In an exemplary embodiment, the projectile includes a plurality of the MEMS apparatus disposed at the flow surface.","One application of the invention is as a micro control surface to steer high-speed projectiles. The invention is command actuated to create lift on a projectile body or fin. The device offers the advantage of simple electrical actuation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","10","12","14","16","12","18","14","16","14","16","18"]},"Thermal arch beam  includes a midpoint  and a protrusion  () located at about the midpoint . A lever  includes a bearing surface  upon which the protrusion  may bear. A pair of lever supports ,  are disposed on the substrate  for rotatably supporting the lever  around an axis of rotation R-R (). When beam  deflects in the X direction () due to the voltage difference between contacts , , the beam protrusion  pushes against the bearing surface  of lever  causing rotation of the lever  in the Z direction out of the XY plane. The area of contact between the protrusion  and the bearing surface  is positioned vertically between the axis of rotation R-R and the plane of the substrate , as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4","FIG. 4A","FIG. 2"],"b":["62","4","4","62","10","64","66","26","18","18","68","26","70","64","64","14","16","18","64","10","26","70","64","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["5","5","24","24","38","20","22","40","42","36","40","42","38","30","24","20","22"]},"Of course, other means may be used to rotatably support the lever . For example, the axle  may be fixed to or integral with the lever  and rotatable with respect to the lever supports , . Or, the axle  may be fixed to or integral with the lever supports ,  and rotatable with respect to the lever . Or, axle  may be fixed to or integral with both lever  and lever supports , . In that case, the portions of the axle  extending between the lever  and the lever supports ,  include torsion beams or torsion springs that twist when lever  rotates.","The MEMS apparatus  may also be used to steer a projectile.  shows a projectile . As used herein, a projectile  may be a missile, rocket or any type of projectile, with or without fins, that is launched in air or water.  shows a portion of a flow surface  of a projectile . The flow surface  may be the external surface of the projectile  or it may be the surface of a fin, wing, rudder, etc. A plurality of MEMS apparatus  (or apparatus ) are disposed in an array on the flow surface . The MEMS apparatus  may be arrayed in any manner and number required to steer the projectile . When the levers  of the apparatus  are extended upward into the flow stream around surface , the ramps will influence the flow stream and alter the path of the projectile .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["10","46","10","10","46","24","46","24","46","14","16","48"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof.","Finally, any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations (for example, by using the term \u201cabout\u201d) that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
