---
title: Systems and methods for storing and searching data in a customer center environment
abstract: Systems and methods for storing data in a customer center environment are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: generating data from workforce applications, at least one of the workforce applications including at least one of forecasting, scheduling, recording, and monitoring functionalities; and storing the data from the at least one of the workforce applications in a storage area network (SAN), the SAN being operable to connect the at least one of the workforce applications to computer storage devices. The method can further include keeping recorded contacts in a long term storage device such as the SAN or an operational data store (ODS) and transparently searching in both the ODS and the SAN simultaneously. With a concept of moving data on to a file system SAN which is cheaper as compared to a database technology such as ODS, the method facilitates predictable performance from the ODS and easier manageability with constant cost from SAN.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953750&OS=07953750&RS=07953750
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 07953750
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of copending U.S. provisional application entitled, \u201cSystems and Methods for Searching Data in a Customer Center Environment,\u201d having Ser. No. 60\/847,872, filed Sep. 28, 2006, which is entirely incorporated herein by reference, and is related to U.S. utility application entitled, \u201cSystems and Methods For Storing And Searching Data in a Customer Center Environment,\u201d Ser. No. 11\/693,899, filed on Mar. 30, 2007, which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.","The present disclosure is generally related to storing and searching data in a customer center environment.","The business of a call center, also known as a customer center, is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers (or prospective customers). Existing solutions require the purchase of multiple hardware and software components, typically from different vendors, to achieve the business goals of the customer center. The use of separate systems of components leads to a variety of problems. For instance, each system typically has its own method of configuration and its own user interface. Thus, exchanging data between the systems typically requires additional work by someone at the customer center.","Furthermore, customer centers are continually tasked with striking a balance between service quality, efficiency, effectiveness, revenue generation, cost cutting, and profitability, among others. As a result, today's customer center agents are charged with mastering multiple data sources and systems, delivering consistent service across customer touch points, up-selling, cross-selling, and saving at-risk customers, while winning new ones.","Data in the data sources and systems is typically stored in a structured database. The structured database is continually changing and growing due to the technological changes and development of customer centers. Because of compliance regulations, the structured database typically stores data for the recorded contacts for a long duration, such as seven (7) to ten (10) years. Thus, the structured database is increasingly large in size of storage and complicated to use, which may result in the increase of maintenance and licensing costs, the addition of more hardware, and the unreliable predictability in performance in querying the structured database.","Systems and methods for searching in a customer center environment are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: generating data from a plurality of workforce applications, at least one of the plurality of workforce applications including at least one of forecasting, scheduling, recording, and monitoring functionalities; storing the data in a plurality of unstructured databases, at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases being operative to communicate with one of the plurality of workforce applications, the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases including a plurality of unstructured data that does not have a data structure; receiving search parameters that are used to search the data in the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases; searching the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases according to the search parameters; and displaying search results on a displaying device.","An exemplary system for storing data in a customer center system comprises workforce applications that include at least one of forecasting, scheduling, recording, and monitoring functionalities, at least one of the workforce applications being operative to generate data related to customer center functionalities. The system further includes an operational data store operable to integrate data from the at least one of the workforce applications to facilitate operations, analysis and reporting and a storage area network operable to connect the at least one of the workforce applications to computer storage devices via the operational data store, the storage area network of which is operable to store the data from the at least one of the workforce applications. At least one of the workface applications is operable to search in both the operational data store and storage area network.","Other systems, methods, features, and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features, and advantages be included within this description, be within the scope of the present disclosure, and be protected by the accompanying claims.","Disclosed herein are systems and methods for storing and searching data in a customer center environment. A customer center can include, but is not limited to, outsourced contact centers, outsourced customer relationship management, customer relationship management, voice of the customer, customer interaction, contact center, multi-media contact center, remote office, distributed enterprise, work-at-home agents, remote agents, branch office, back office, performance optimization, workforce optimization, hosted contact centers, payroll systems, and speech analytics, for example.","Additionally, included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms, as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/359,356, filed on Feb. 22, 2006, entitled \u201cSystems and Methods for Workforce Optimization,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates: (1) Quality Monitoring\/Call Recording\u2014voice of the customer; the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points; (2) Workforce Management\u2014strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence, aids in planning, and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels; (3) Performance Management\u2014key performance indicators (KPIs) and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies, opportunities and improvement areas; (4) e-Learning\u2014training, new information and protocol disseminated to staff, leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development; and\/or (5) Analytics\u2014deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example, the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals\u2014from both an enterprise and center perspective\u2014to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized, leveraging quality monitoring\/call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.","Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail, they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described, examples of flow diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which data can be stored and searched.","Referring now in more detail to the figures,  illustrates an embodiment of a customer center environment . The customer center environment  is staffed by agents who handle incoming and\/or outgoing contacts. Although the traditional and most common form of contact is by phone, other types of contacts are becoming more common (e.g., text chat, web collaboration, email, and fax, among others). An agent workspace can include an agent phone  and a workstation computer . A network  connects one or more of the workstations .","A contact router  distributes incoming contacts to available agents. For example, when the contacts are made by traditional phone lines, the contact router  operates by connecting outside trunk lines  to agent trunk lines . In this environment, the contact router  may be implemented by an automatic call distributor (ACD), which queues calls until a suitable agent is available. Other types of contacts, such as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls and computer-based contacts (e.g., chat and email), are routed over one or more data networks. These contacts are distributed over network  to one of the agent workstations . Alternatively or additionally, the contact router  can include, but is not limited to, an instant messenger (IM) server, an e-mail server, and a computer telephony integration (CTI) server, among others.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210"]},"Typical use of the agent workforce related applications results in data being provided to one or more databases. The data can be extracted, transformed, and loaded in an enterprise data mart . The data processing  can access the data to provide parameter reports, ad-hoc reports, custom reports, scorecards, an on-line analytical processing (OLAP) browser, and predictive analytics, among others.","Alternatively or additionally, data generated from the applications, such as quality monitoring, forecasting and scheduling, compliance recording, adherence, learning, and voice recognition, can be stored in the data source  in multiple respective databases (not shown). The operation of the applications is further described in relation to .","The subject matter related to the data source , data mart  and data processing  is related to the subject matter disclosed in a pending U.S. patent application, which is entitled \u201cSystems and Methods For Contact Center Analysis,\u201d U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/479,267, filed on Jun. 30, 2006, and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","The search engine  can be deployed at a centralized location, e.g., within a customer center, and\/or embedded into a network as a service on the network and\/or as intelligence in the network infrastructure. The search engine  communicates with the data source , data mart , and data processing  to search and retrieve data based on search parameters. The data source , data mart  and data processing  store data in either a structured database or unstructured database, or both. The structured database includes structured data, which are generally information that has been broken down and categorized. The structured database is further described in relation to .","The unstructured database includes a plurality of unstructured data, which are generally information that do not have a data structure. Examples of unstructured data may include, but is not limited to, audio, video, recorded contacts meta-data, such as, but not limited to, start-time and end-time of the call, agentID, customerID, and location of audio file, among others, and unstructured text, such as, but not limited to, the body of an email or word processor document. The unstructured database is further described in relation to .","The search engine  receives a query from a user and processes the query using a search algorithm. The search engine  searches either the structured database or unstructured database, or both, based on the query. The search engine  provides a search result in text format. The operation of the search engine  is further described in relation to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["310","325","325","333","333","335","345"]},"If the data is to be stored in the structured database , then at least some portions of the data are transmitted to the structured database . For example, the data compilation manager  can determine if the data includes, by way of example, but is not limited to, agent ID, date of CTI event, talkover start time, talkover end time, ring time, and number of transfers, among others. Responsive to the determination, at least some portions of the data are transmitted, stored and categorized in the structured database .","If the data compilation manager  makes a determination to store the data in the unstructured database , then at least some portions of the data are transmitted to the data-to-text converter . For example, the data compilation manager  can be configured to transmit the data that is not stored in the structured database to the unstructured database . Alternatively or additionally, the data compilation manager  can be configured to transmit all data from the quality monitoring to the unstructured database, including data that is stored in the structured database.","The data-to-text converter  receives the data from the data compilation manager  and converts the data to a text format, such as an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) or HyperText Markup Language (HTML) format. The converted data is transmitted and stored in the unstructured database . Alternatively or additionally, the data being stored in the databases ,  can also be stored in an enterprise data mart . The enterprise data mart  can be used as a long-term storage whereas the databases ,  can be used as a short-term storage.","Metadata can be included in the converted data that can facilitate indexing. For example, the metadata includes specified key words and concepts under which the data can be indexed. This can be helpful, especially in cases in which the words in the data might have multiple meanings. The metadata can guide the search engine in choosing which of the meanings for these words is correct. The search engine  can confirm whether the metadata is correct by correlating metadata with content and rejecting the metadata that does not match the words in the data.","The search engine  includes a search parameter input , which receives search parameters (or a query) from a user. The parameters are then used by a search algorithm  to search the databases , , . The search parameters can involve one or more words with the use of Boolean operators that allow the user to refine and extend the terms of the search. The Boolean operators most often seen are:\n\n","Alternatively or additionally, the search engine  includes a feature of a conditional search with conditional expressions, such as ten (10) instances of transferred calls found in a document for a particular contact. Alternatively or additionally, the search algorithm  can define the search parameter as literal searches. That is, the search algorithm  searches for the words or phrases exactly as the words are entered in the search parameter input .","Alternatively or additionally, the search algorithm  can define the search parameters as concept-based searches that use statistical analysis on the data containing the words or phrases defined in the search parameters. Alternatively or additionally, the search algorithm  can define the search parameters as natural-language queries. The search parameters in the natural-language queries are in the form of a question in the same way a person would ask another person.","The search results of the search algorithm  are then indexed by a search index . The search index  can highlight the words in the search results that were used in the search parameter and prioritize the search results. The search index  can include the number of times that the word appears in the search results. The search index  can assign a \u201cweight\u201d to each entry, with increasing values assigned to the words as the words appear near the top of the document, in sub-headings, in links, in the metadata or in the title of the document, among others.","The search index  allows information to be found quickly. An example of the index is a hash table. When using a hash table (or \u201chashing\u201d), a formula is applied to attach a numerical value (or hash value) to each word. The formula is designed to evenly distribute the entries across a predetermined number of divisions. This numerical distribution is different from the distribution of words across the alphabet.","For example, in the English vocabulary, there are more words that begin with some letters than other letters. For instance, there are more words that begin with the letter \u201cM\u201d than the letter \u201cX\u201d. This means that finding a word beginning with the letter \u201cM\u201d could take much longer than finding a word that begins with letter \u201cX\u201d. The hash table contains a hash value along with a pointer to the actual data, which can be sorted in a way that allows the data to be stored most efficiently. The combination of efficient indexing and effective storage facilitates getting results quickly, even when the user creates a complicated search. Another example related to a contact center is searching for calls with a customer ID=\u201cX\u201d, called on Jan. 1, 1997, and associated with Agent=\u201cBob\u201d on Campaign=\u201cSell Shares\u201d.","The search results are then sent to a data encoding\/conversion , which determines whether to convert the search result to a text format. If the search result is to be converted, the encoding\/conversion  converts the search results to a text format, such as an XML or HTML format. If the data of the search results is in the text format, the data is then transmitted and stored in a search result database .","Alternatively or additionally, the search engine  can be configured to search in the structured database  for specific contact attribute search criteria. The search engine  can include a specific graphical user interface (not shown) and specific query composition (not shown) that enables the search engine  to communicate with the structured database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","420","403","425","403","405","410","415","403","420","425","420","425","420","403","420","403","425","420","425"]},"The SAN  can further communicate with the data source  directly without receiving data from the ODS . The SAN  is generally a network that connects a computing device, such as those in the data source , to computer storage devices, such as, disk array controllers and tape libraries. Generally, the SAN has two variations. The first variation of SAN is a network, the primary purpose of which is the transfer of data between computer systems and storage elements. The SAN can include a communication infrastructure, which provides physical connections, and a management layer, which organizes lie connections, storage elements, and computer systems so that data transfer is secure and robust.","The second variation of SAN is a storage network that can include storage elements, storage devices, computer systems, and\/or appliances, plus all control software, communicating over a network. In a storage network, a server issues a request for specific blocks, or data segments, from specific disk drives. The storage networks can use a small computer system interface (SCSI) protocol for communication between servers and devices. SAN physical interfaces can include, but are not limited to, 1 Gbit Fibre Channel, 2 Gbit Fibre Channel, 4 Gbit Fibre Channel, and (in limited cases) 1 Gbit iSCSI. The SCSI protocol information can be carried over a lower level protocol via a mapping layer.","Some SANs allow duplication functionality such as \u201ccloning\u201d and \u201csnapshotting,\u201d which allows for real-time duplication of a logical unit number (LUN), for the purposes of backup, disaster recovery, or system duplication. Cloning creates a complete replica of the LUN in the background (consuming I\/O resources in the process), while snapshotting stores the original states of any blocks that get changed after the \u201csnapshot\u201d from the original LUN, and does not significantly slow the system.","The SAN  can include a file system  that can store and organize computer files. Such files can contain data to facilitate finding and accessing the files. The file system  can use a storage device such as a hard disk or CD-ROM. The file system  can be involved in maintaining the physical location of the files. The file system  can provide access to data on a file server by acting as clients for a network protocol (e.g., network file system (NFS), server message block (SMB), or plan 9 filesystem protocol (9P) clients). The file system  can be virtual and exist as an access method for virtual data.","In general, the file system  is a set of abstract data types that are implemented for the storage, hierarchical organization, manipulation, navigation, access, and retrieval of data. The file system  can make use of an underlying data storage device that offers access to an array of fixed-size blocks, generally 512 bytes each, for example. The file system  includes software that facilitates organizing the blocks into files and directories, and keeping tack of which sectors belong to which file and which are not being used. Alternatively or additionally, the file system  can operate with a storage device. The file system  can be used to organize and provide access to any data, whether it be stored or dynamically generated (e.g., from a network connection).","With or without the use of storage devices, the file system  generally has directories that associate file names with files, usually by connecting the file name to an index into a file allocation table of some sort, such as the file allocation table (FAT) in an MS-DOS file system or in any other type of operating system which use file systems to store files. Directory structures may be flat, or allow hierarchies where directories may contain subdirectories. In some file systems, file names are structured, with special syntax for filename extensions and version numbers. In others, file names are simple strings, and per-file metadata is stored elsewhere.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","400","500","520","503","525","500","535","520","503","535","535","540"]},"In general, the data warehouse is a computer system that archives and analyzes an organization's historical data, such as sales, salaries, or other information from day-to-day operations. The data warehouse can use a \u201cdimensional\u201d approach to organize the stored data. The dimensional approach stores data as \u201cfacts,\u201d which are numeric or text data that capture specific data about a single transaction or event, and \u201cdimensions\u201d which contain reference information, that allow each transaction or event to be classified in various ways.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"],"b":["635","603","606","609","613","616","619"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"],"b":["745","703","706","703"]},"Alternatively or additionally, at least one application of the data source can capture and store the data related to an interaction in a text format. For example, quality monitoring of the data source can store information corresponding to the interaction in the unstructured database  in which the information is floating around in a text format. The search engine can search for key words in the text, such as contact ID, start time, end time, DNIS, talk over start time, talk over end time, and competitor's name, for example. The unstructured database  may include characters, integers, float, character large object (clob) and binary large object (blob).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","805","810","815"]},"Based on the search results, step  determines whether the data is to be encoded and converted. If the data is to be converted, step  encodes and converts the data in, for example, either an XML format or HTML format, or both. Step  stores the data in a search result database. If the data is already in an XML or HTML format and does not need data encoding and\/or conversion, then the data is stored in the search result database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","905","910","920","930","935"]},"If the data is determined to be stored in a structured database, step  extracts, transforms, and loads the data in a structured database. Step  provides communication between the databases and the search engine in a secure connection such that the search engine can search the databases. Alternatively or additionally, the data in the unstructured and\/or structured databases can be transmitted to a data mart, such as that shown in , such that the search engine can search the data mart.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1005","1010","1015","1020"]},"If the data is not to be encoded and\/or converted, then step  stores the data associated with the search result in a search result database of the search engine. If the data is to be encoded and\/or converted, then step  encodes and converts the data in either the XML format or HTML format, or both. Step  stores the encoded\/converted data in the search result database. Step  displays the search result on a display device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1010","1015","1020","1125","1130","1135","1140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1200","1200","1210","1220","1230","1240","1250","1230","1210","1200"]},"The systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the system and\/or method is implemented in software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable microprocessor (\u03bcP) situated in a computing device. However, the systems and methods can be embodied in any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. Such instruction execution systems include any computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions from the instruction execution system. In the context of this disclosure, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by, or in connection with, the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can be, for example but not limited to, a system or propagation medium that is based on electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor technology.","Specific examples of a computer-readable medium using electronic technology would include (but are not limited to) the following: an electrical connection (electronic) having one or more wires; a random access memory (RAM); a read-only memory (ROM); an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory). A specific example using magnetic technology includes (but is not limited to) a portable computer diskette. Specific examples using optical technology include (but are not limited to) optical fiber and compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM).","The scope of certain embodiments of the present disclosure includes embodying the functionality of the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure in logic embodied in hardware and\/or software-configured media.","It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture, functionality and\/or operation of implementations. In this regard, each block can be interpreted to represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example, two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations, merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views. While several embodiments are described in connection with these drawings, there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed herein. On the contrary, the intent is to cover all alternatives, modifications and equivalents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
