---
title: Numerical modeling of six-degree-freedom ship motion
abstract: The present invention's new calculative methodology models the motion of a seagoing vessel in six dimensions, uniquely employing a total velocity potential as the sole parameterization for taking into consideration all linear and nonlinear dynamical effects involved in interaction between the vessel and environmental water. The solid-body rotational motion of the vessel about the vessel's center of mass is determined in three dimensions (roll, pitch, yaw) by calculating the pressure torque and the buoyancy torque. The solid-body translational motion of the vessel's center of mass is determined in three dimensions (heave, surge, sway) by calculating the pressure force and the buoyancy force. The pressure torque and the pressure force are each associated with pressure (e.g., non-hydrostatic pressure) of water on the vessel's surface. The buoyancy torque and the buoyancy force are each associated with the displacement of the vessel with respect to the vessel's equilibrium position in the water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07756689&OS=07756689&RS=07756689
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07756689
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION","Mathematical Model","Benchmark Results","Roll Damping","Example","CONCLUDING REMARKS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, filing date 1 Sep. 2006, hereby incorporated herein by reference, entitled \u201cNumerical Modeling of Nonlinear Ship-Wave Interactions,\u201d joint inventors Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang, which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/778,166, filing date 28 Feb. 2006, hereby incorporated herein by reference, entitled \u201cNumerical Modeling of Nonlinear Interactions between Ships and Surface Gravity Waves,\u201d joint inventors Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang.","This application claims the benefit of aforesaid U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/778,166, filing date 28 Feb. 2006, hereby incorporated herein by reference, entitled \u201cNumerical Modeling of Nonlinear Interactions between Ships and Surface Gravity Waves,\u201d joint inventors Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang.","This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application no. 60\/847,396, filing date 15 Sep. 2006, hereby incorporated herein by reference, entitled \u201cOn the Impact of Above Waterline Ship Geometry on Roll Motion,\u201d joint inventors Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention relates to motions of marine vessels while interacting with environmental waves, more particularly to methodologies for modeling such motions.","A seagoing ship is characterized by motion describable in terms of six degrees of freedom, viz., heave, surge, sway, roll, pitch, and yaw. More generally, the term \u201csix degrees of freedom\u201d is conventionally used to describe both translational motion and rotational motion of a body with respect to three perpendicular axes in three-dimensional space. Regarding motion of ships, the three kinds of translational ship motion are commonly referred to as heave (linear movement along a vertical axis), surge (linear movement along a horizontal fore-and-aft axis), and sway (linear movement along a horizontal port-and-starboard axis); the three kinds of rotational ship motion are commonly referred to as roll (rotational movement about a horizontal fore-and-aft axis), pitch (rotational movement about a horizontal port-and-starboard axis), and yaw (rotational movement about a vertical axis).","Ship motion at sea has always been among the most important problems for naval architects and engineers. Accurate prediction of the ship motions in real time can be critical for preventing large amplitude ship motions or the capsizing of vessels. This is particularly so for some modern day marine vessels such as fast passenger ferries, high-powered naval vessels, and high-powered cargo ships.","The history of ship motion research can be traced back more than a half century. In 1953, St. Denis and Pierson first proposed a statistical ship response in a realistic seaway by approximating ship motion in a linear system. Their work provided a respected tool to naval architects for estimating ship motions. Peters and Stoker (1957) then developed the first analytical prediction theory; see A. S. Peters and J. J. Stoker, \u201cThe Motion of a Ship, As a Floating Rigid Body, in a Seaway,\u201d 10: 399-490, 1957. Because in their theory the ship's beam and unsteady motions are assumed comparable and small, Peters and Stokers' theory is called a first-order theory. Later Newman (1961) improved the first-order theory by introducing a set of small parameters and better body boundary conditions; see J. N. Newman, \u201cA Linearized Theory for the Motion of a Thin Ship in Regular Waves,\u201d 3(1): 1-9, 1961.","Ogilvie and Tuck (1969) developed a \u201cstrip theory\u201d in which the linear ship motion coefficients are introduced based on the slender-body assumption, such as added masses and damping coefficients for heave and pitch motions; see T. F. Ogilvie and O. Tuck, \u201cA Rational Strip Theory of Ship Motions: Part I,\u201d Report-13, Dept. of the Navy, ., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, pages 92+, 1969. Since Ogilvie and Tuck's strip theory includes terms containing some surface integration over the free surface, it is very difficult to implement computationally. There is an inconsistency in the strip theory: the formulation is applicable in the short wavelength domains, while the slender-body approximation works in long wavelength domains. Improvements in strip theory were developed to reconcile the difference existing within Tuck's strip theory. Notably, Maruo (1970) developed an interpolation theory, and later Newman (1978) developed a unified theory, so that the first-order theory approach can be applied over wider frequency domains; see H. Maruo, \u201cAn Improvement of the Slender Body Theory for Oscillating Ships with Zero Forward Speed,\u201d 19: 45-56, 1970; J. N. Newman, \u201cThe Theory of Ship Motions,\u201d 18: 221-83, 1978.","As faster and more powerful computers have become available, the Neumann-Kelvin approach (which basically involves strip theory) has been adopted in numerical modeling, such as disclosed by Beck and Magee (1990), Magee (1994), and Shin et al. (1997); see R. F. Beck, R. F. and A. R. Magee, \u201cTime-Domain Analysis for Predicting Ship Motions,\u201d , W. G. Price, P. Temarel & A. J. Keane, Eds., Elvesier Sciences Publishers B. V., pages 49-64, 1990; A. Magee, \u201cSeakeeping Applications using a Time-Domain Method,\u201d 20., Santa Barbara, Calif., 19 pages, 1994; Y.-S. Shin, J. S. Chung, W. M. Lin, S. Zhang and A. Engle, \u201cDynamic Loadings for Structural Analysis of Fine Form Container Ship Based on a Non-Linear Large Amplitude Motions and Loads Method,\u201d 105: 127-54, 1997. Although Neumann-Kelvin is a linear theory, it has been a great success in ship motion research because it can be applied to arbitrary exact ship surfaces, and because the hull boundary conditions can be satisfied on the exact wetted surface of the ship body with the linearized free-surface boundary conditions.","Nevertheless, the Neumann-Kelvin theory has its own problems, such as in solving a forward-speed Green function in finite water depth; see R. F. Beck and A. M. Reed, \u201cModern Seakeeping Computations for Ships,\u201d 23, Val-de-Reuil, France, National Academy of Sciences, pages 1-43, 2000. Still, as pointed out by Beck and Reed, probably about eighty percent of design related to ship motion calculation is based on the strip theory because, compared to other theories, it is fast, reliable, and able to accommodate various hull forms. In fact, all linear theories are ultimately beset with limitations; in particular, they cannot model any nonlinear processes. In many cases, the nonlinear processes dominate the linear effects in determining ship motions. To address this limitation, several \u201cblending methods\u201d were developed. For a detailed discussion, the reader is referred to the ISSC report on \u201cExtreme Hull Girder Loading,\u201d 1 142000, Nagasaki, Japan, 59 pages, 2000.","More recently, Wilson et al. (1998) and Gentaz et al. (1999) attempted to solve the Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes equations in time domain (RANS); see R. Wilson, E. Paterson and F. Stern, \u201cUnsteady RANS CFD Method for Naval Combatants in Waves,\u201d 22nd, Washington, D.C., Washington, D.C.: Natl. Acad. Press, pages 532-49, 1998; L. Gentaz, P. E. Guillermo, B. Alessandrini and G. Delhommeau, \u201cThree-dimensional Free-Surface Viscous Flow around a Ship in Forced Motion,\u201d 7., Paris, France, 12 pages. Wilson et al. and Gentaz et al. applied iterative methods for steady solutions, and time-stepping methods for unsteady solutions. Their approaches are by far inconclusive, partly due to insufficient numerical results. In general, Wilson et al. and Gentaz et al. have convergence problems when the sea environment is rough and the ship forward speed is high.","According to traditional ship motion analysis, the translational and rotational solid-body motions (six degrees of freedom) of ships are approximated with parameterized forces. The traditional formulation is straightforward but is dynamically inconsistent because the forces involved are very complicated and correspond to each other in accordance with the dynamics of the ship motion. These complex forces are associated with interactions between the ship and surface waves and with departures of the ship from its equilibrium position. In principle, appropriate parameterization of such complicated dynamical forces is impossible. Consequently, it is common in conventional practice to introduce additional parameters lacking solid physics foundations in order to emulate real ship solid-body motions. An unwanted side effect of this approach is that the introductions of additional but unnecessary variables hamper computational efficiencies.","Many studies have been made on the nonlinearity of ship motion. For example, Y. Liu et al., \u201cA High-Order Spectral Method for Nonlinear Wave-Body Interactions,\u201d 245:115-136 (1992), uses a high-order spectral method to study nonlinear interactions between the ship and the water surface. See also, W. M. Lin et al., \u201cNumerical Solution for Large-Amplitude Ship Motions in the Time-Domain,\u201d 18., U. Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. (1990); W. M. Lin et al., \u201cLarge-Amplitude Motions and Wave Loads for Ship Design,\u201d 20, Santa Barbara, Calif. (1994); Y. Liu et al., \u201cComputations of Fully Nonlinear Three-Dimensional Wave-Wave Wave-Body Interactions, Part 2. Nonlinear Waves And Forces,\u201d 438:41-66 (2000); M. H. Xue et al., \u201cComputations of Full Nonlinear Three-Dimensional Wave-Wave and Wave-Body Interactions, Part I. Dynamics of Steep Three-Dimensional Waves,\u201d 438:11-39 (2001).","Unfortunately, there are still empirical or linear parameters used in modeling six-degree-freedom ship motions, e.g., added mass and damping mass for each degree of motion. The intrinsic limitations of these parameters can potentially affect the accuracy of the nonlinear ship motion models. For example, the added mass and the damping mass are often determined from the ship's geometry below the waterline in calm water; see A. R. Magee and R. F. Beck, -, Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of Engineering University of Michigan (1988), e.g., page 192. However, the ship's geometry below the waterline when the ship is underway in waves is very different from that in calm water, and is continually changing due to speed and wave action.","It is therefore desirable to develop a new ship motion model: that maintains similar advantages of the strip theory but also efficiently models all nonlinear processes in ship motions; that is based on the fundamental laws of physics and precise mathematical formulations; that is consistent with variations of water environments and ship properties; and, that is capable of simulating ship position variations due to ship-wave interactions.","In view of the foregoing, it is an object of the present invention to provide a robust numerical model that can be used to study the motions of ships traveling through environmental waves.","Another object of the present invention is to provide such a model that is sufficiently flexible for arbitrary single-hull and multi-hull ships.","A further object of the present invention is to provide such a model that is sufficiently flexible for extreme environmental conditions.","It is a another object of the present invention to provide such a model that is computationally efficient.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide such a model that is capable of real-time or near-real-time applications.","The present inventors' afore-noted nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 filed 1 Sep. 2006 discloses, inter alia, their inventive numerical model of nonlinear ship-wave interactions. Application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 is largely concerned with the hydrodynamics of interactions between ships and surface waves\u2014e.g., surface wave modifications due to ship motions. In contrast, the instant application is largely concerned with the motions of ships in the context of interactions between ships and surface waves\u2014e.g., ship position variations due to ship-wave interactions. The present invention's numerical model evaluates time variation of ship solid body motion (translational and rotational motion) under the forces arising from arbitrary ship-surface wave interactions and ship underwater positions.","According to the inventive hydrodynamics model of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, filed on 1 Sep. 2006, the spectral method is used to solve surface waves in the numerical domain, taking mathematical advantage of similarities between surface wave solutions and the basic functions of the spectral expansion. The spectral method is found by the present inventors to be inappropriate for the ship body, however. Ship dimensions are, in general, much smaller than those of the numerical domain, and the ship body geometries can be very complicated, often with corners and sharp edges. If spectral method were used to solve for the ship body, then the truncation order would be extremely high and special effort would be required to avoid \u201cGibbs effects\u201d caused by sharp edges. Instead, the inventive hydrodynamics model uses finite element method in ship boundary and pseudo-spectral method in global domain. A quasi-linear method is used in each time step to transform the information between the ship boundary and global domain. The inventive hydrodynamics model thus enables efficient study of complicated ship geometry in steep incident waves. It succeeds in evaluating physical quantities in different numerical meshes. Also disclosed in U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 is a ship surface pressure correction method to calculate pressure. According to the inventive pressure determination method, any singularity characterizing pressure distribution is eliminated, and a smooth function permits efficient and accurate calculation of pressure.","The present inventors' U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 discloses a fully nonlinear, computationally efficient, hydrodynamics model characterized by steady ship motion. The term \u201csteady ship motion\u201d as used by the present inventors implies that the response of the ship to all exerting forces (arising from ship-wave, wave-wave interactions) is not included. In effect, the instant application adds the ship response (in the form of six-degree solid-body motion) to the corresponding effect on surface waves (with which U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 is concerned). By the instant disclosure the present inventors incorporate ship solid-body motion dynamics into their hybrid model. The present invention involves \u201csolid body motion\u201d instead of \u201crigid body motion\u201d because the bending effects on the ship are not taken into consideration.","Speaking generally in the fields of fluid dynamics and fluid mechanics, a \u201cvelocity potential\u201d is a scalar function for the flow of a fluid (e.g., an irrotational fluid), wherein the gradient of the scalar function is equal to the velocity of the fluid. According to typical practice of the present invention's solid-body ship motion model, disclosed herein, the three-dimensional ship rotation is governed by the Louisville (solid-body rotation) equation, whereby: (i) the dynamic torque from the pressure acts on the ship body surface; and, (ii) the buoyancy torque arises from the displacement of the ship from the equilibrium position in water. Similarly, the three-dimensional ship translation motion is governed by the solid-body translation equation, whereby: (i) the dynamic force from the pressure acts on the ship body surface; and, (ii) the buoyancy force arises from the displacement of the ship from the equilibrium position in water. In the inventive ship motion model, a total velocity potential is used to include all linear and nonlinear effects in the dynamical process. No other parameterization, such as the added mass and the damping coefficient, is employed in the inventive ship motion model. All interactions, and thus all forces and torques on the ship body, are continuously updated and are used to determine six-degree ship motions. With all interactions included, the inventive ship motion model can be used for accurately and efficiently evaluating solid-body ship motion for very high Froude numbers and very steep incident waves.","The present invention's ship motion model is a fully nonlinear, dynamically consistent, time-varying numerical model that determines six-degrees-of-freedom ship motion (fully three-dimensional translational and rotational motions) under arbitrary ship-surface wave interactions. The inventive ship motion model: is computationally efficient; can be applied to ship design, ship construction and ship operation (e.g., real-time operation); can be applied to single-hull and multi-hull marine vessels in arbitrary water environment; calculates forces on ship bodies from the first principles; determines ship positions consistently with respect to the environmental surface waves; involves mathematical and numerical procedures to accurately and efficiently evaluate the forces and ship positions; does not require parameterization on the forces to ship bodies; is easily coupled to the present inventors' nonlinear steady ship motion model to establish a new framework for ship design engineering and ship operations.","In order to correctly model the ship solid body motion, the present invention correctly evaluates various forces on the ship body. Two major forces are determined accurately in accordance with the present invention, viz: (1) the surface force arising from the non-hydrostatic water pressure on ship surface; and, (2) the buoyancy force arising from ship position departure from the equilibrium state. The translational motion of the ship center of mass and the solid-body rotation of the ship about the center of mass are then determined by the net force and the net torque relative to the center of mass. In the present invention's ship motion model, all forces and ship positions are evaluated from the first principles; no approximation is made in any aspect of modeling except for approximations due to numerical discretization.","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 focuses upon nonlinear interactions between incident waves and ship bodies. The instant application focuses upon motions of ship bodies considered as solid ship bodies. Unlike other ship motion models, the present invention's ship motion model as typically practiced uses one total velocity potential instead of eight velocity potentials. In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention, ship motion under various nonlinear forces is calculated exactly (e.g., without any \u201cblending\u201d) from first principles. The inventive ship motion model can determine, with consistency, the transformations between the ship reference frame (centered at the ship mass center and attached to the ship) and the surface wave reference frame (moving horizontally with the ship translation velocity and centered on the mean surface of the water); hence, the inventive ship motion model can determine, with consistency, the ship solid body motion. Provided by the inventive ship motion model is a systematic, generic formulation of ship positions (including equilibrium state, underwater ship surface and volume), founded in part on its recognition that accurate force evaluation can best be achieved in the ship reference frame. The inventive ship motion model is capable of correctly modeling ship solid body six-degree-freedom motions with respect to specified incoming surface waves.","The present inventors' two unique models\u2014viz., (i) their ship motion model (presently disclosed) and (ii) their ship hydrodynamics model (disclosed in their application Ser. No. 11\/518,740)\u2014can be coupled so as to together constitute a comprehensive framework that is capable of simulating, in arbitrary water environment, both (i) ship motion and (ii) ship-wave interaction. The present inventors' combination of their presently disclosed ship motion model (which simulates ship motions) and their previously disclosed ship-wave hydrodynamics model (which simulates the effects of ship motions, e.g., specified steady ship motions, on surface waves) thus represents a complete framework\u2014an inventive \u201chybrid\u201d model\u2014for simulating all dynamical processes of ships in arbitrary water environment. This inventive framework can be a very useful tool for assisting ship design engineering and real time ship operation. The present invention's fully nonlinear \u201cfour-dimensional\u201d (three spatial dimensions plus the temporal dimension) hybrid ship model includes all nonlinear interactions between the ship and surface waves (incident waves and ship generated waves) and between the waves themselves.","Typical practice of either or both of the present inventors' numerical modeling methodologies implements a computer processing unit and succeeds in finding superior solutions in shorter CPU durations. The present inventors have developed a prototypical computer program product that they have named \u201cDigital, Self-consistent, Ship Experimental Laboratory,\u201d abbreviated \u201cDiSSEL.\u201d DiSSEL is a prototypical embodiment of the present inventors' hybrid model, which addresses both ship-wave interaction and ship motion. The inventive hybrid model represents a hybridization of their presently disclosed ship motion model (which simulates ship motions) and their previously disclosed ship-wave interaction hydrodynamics model (which simulates the effects of ship motions, e.g., specified steady ship motions, on surface waves). Essentially, according to the present inventors' DiSSEL model, a hybrid algorithm based on spectral, finite difference and finite element methods is used to solve the fundamental nonlinear equations that govern the dynamics of surface waves and ship motions. Parameterization that had been assumed in the previous studies on ship motion modeling has been minimized in this inventive model. The DiSSEL model combines two main components, viz., (ii) a fully nonlinear ship-wave interaction model (\u201cDiSSEL_SW\u201d) and, coupled therewith, (ii) a six-degree, ship solid body motion model (\u201cDiSSEL_SB\u201d).","According to the DiSSEL_SW component of the DiSSEL model, the physical processes are described in the reference frame moving horizontally with the mass center of the ship. The corresponding equations in this reference frame are the incompressibility condition,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mo":"\u2207","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},"mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mo":"\u2202","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","msup":{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}}]}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","H"],"mo":["\u2062","-"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":["z","\u03b7"]}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"h "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},{"mi":["p","\u03c1"]}],"mo":["+","+","+","+","-"],"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\u2207","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03c6"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["u","s"]}}},{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"\u03c6"}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mi":["g","\u03b7"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["u","s"]}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"\u00b7","mi":"x"},{"mi":"v","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"}}]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03b7"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03b7"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["u","s"]}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"z"}]}}],"mo":[",","\u2062",","],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"z"}]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"H"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["u","s"]}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},{"mrow":[{"mn":"0.","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":["at","z"]},{"mo":"-","mi":"H"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["{circumflex over (n)}\u00b7","u"],"sub":"t"},"where {circumflex over (n)} is the unit vector of \u0393, and uis the total ship speed (translational and rotational motion speed). It should be pointed out here that we introduce some dissipation in (2) to model wave-breaking mechanisms.","The equations are also solved with the radiation boundary conditions to ensure that the ship-generated waves are left behind the ship. They are implemented as open boundary conditions away from the ship (the far field). In computational applications, the far-field boundary conditions are defined at a finite distance from the ship (instead of the asymptotic limit x\u2192\u221e):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["\u03c6","e"]}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["u","sx"]}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b7","mo":"=","msub":{"mi":["\u03b7","e"]}},"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["at","x"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"mo":"=","mi":"b"}}]}}}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"sub":["e","s","s","e","s"],"o":["\u2207\u03c6","\u03b7"],"i":["u","x=c "]},"where b is the forward boundary, c are the side and aft boundaries, \u03c6and \u03b7are the velocity potential and the surface elevation of the environmental waves, \u03c6and \u03b7are those associated with the ship (e.g. ship-generated waves and the waves arising from ship-environmental wave interactions). The horizontal over-bar signifies the spatial average of the quantities. It is pointed out that the boundary conditions are consistent with the mass conservation; in calm water, \u03c6and \u03b7, vanish.","The fully nonlinear equations are solved in the computational domain with a pseudo-spectral method; however, on the ship boundary, a finite element or a finite difference method is applied. At every time step, physical quantities are transferred, via a quasi-linear method, between the ship boundary grids and the spectral collocation points. This inventive approach can achieve computational efficiencies for arbitrary ship hulls.","According to the DiSSEL_SB component of the DiSSEL model, the six-degree-of-freedom ship solid body motion is divided into (i) a three-degree translational motion of the mass center of the ship and (ii) a three-degree rotation about the mass center of the ship.","The present invention's translational motion equation is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["m","ship"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}},{"msub":{"mi":["D","trans"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"v"}],"mo":"+"},{"msub":{"mi":["F","trans"]},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mi":["F","trans","restore"]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":["trans ","trans","trans","\u0393","trans","ship","water","wet","water ","wet ","trans ","wet "],"sup":["restore ","restore"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["F","n\u00b7Pds, ","F","=m","g+g\u03c1","V"]},"The present invention's rotational motion equation, also referred to herein as the \u201cLouisville\u201d equation, is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u00b7","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03a9"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}},{"mi":"\u03a9","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","\u03a9"],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["D","rotat"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03a9"}],"mo":["+","+"]},{"msubsup":[{"mi":["\u0393","rotat"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","D","R"],"mo":["+","+"]}},{"mi":["\u0393","rotat","restore"]}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","ij"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["V","ship"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"V"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"i","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03b4","ij"]}},{"msub":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"i"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"j"}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["rotat","rotat"],"sup":["I+D+R ","restore "]},"According to the present inventors' DiSSEL, the wet surface torque and the body restoring torque are evaluated at each time step via",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u0393","rotat"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","D","R"],"mo":["+","+"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"s"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["x","s"]},{"mi":["x","c"]}],"mo":"-"}}}},"mo":"\u00d7","mi":"nP"}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"sub":["rotat","wet","c","water","wet"],"sup":"restore","i":["x","\u2212x","V","g, "]},"where xis the geometric center of the underwater ship volume V, and \u03a3are the wetted surfaces with i=4, 5, 6 for roll, pitch and yaw motions, respectively. It is pointed out that the fluid viscosity is not included in the present inventors' DiSSEL system.","Incorporated herein by reference are the following five papers, each of which is co-authored by the present inventors: Ray-Qing Lin, Weijia Kuang, and Arthur M. Reed, \u201cNumerical Modeling of Nonlinear Interactions between Ships and Surface Gravity Waves, Part 1: Ship Waves in Calm Water,\u201d , Vol. 49, No. 1, March 2005, pages 1-11; Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang, \u201cNonlinear Ship-Wave Interaction Model, Part 2: Ship Boundary Condition,\u201d , Vol. 50, No. 2, June 2006, pages 181-186; Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang, \u201cNonlinear Waves of a Steadily Moving Ship in Environmental Waves,\u201d , Vol. 8, January 2004, pages 109-116; Ray-Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang, \u201cOn the Impact of Above Waterline Ship Geometry on Roll Motion,\u201d International Conference on Marine Research and Transportation (ICMRT) 2005, the Island of Ischia (Gulf of Naples, Italy), 19-21 Sep. 2005.","Other objects, advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Mathematics and discussion of the inventive ship motion model are presented hereinbelow. The present invention's mathematical formulation is set forth in the section entitled \u201cMathematical Model,\u201d which contains four subsections respectively entitled \u201cModel Reference Frame,\u201d \u201cFluid Hydrodynamic Equations,\u201d \u201cSolid Body Motion Equations,\u201d and \u201cCoordinate Transformation.\u201d The present invention's numerical results, particularly as compared with those of experiments for selected cases, are treated in the section entitled \u201cBenchmark Results.\u201d A specific technical example of the present invention is described in the section entitled \u201cRoll Damping (Example),\u201d which contains three subsections respectively entitled \u201cRelationship between Ship Geometry and Ship Motion,\u201d \u201cRoll Damping Function,\u201d and \u201cRoll Damping Results.\u201d Concluding discussion of the present invention is contained in the section entitled \u201cConcluding Remarks.\u201d","(i) Model Reference Frame","From general solid body motion theory, a ship's movement can be decoupled into: a three-dimensional translational motion (u+v) of the mass center xof the ship; and, a three-dimensional rotation \u03a9 about x. In this description, uis the ship velocity moving in the calm water, and vis the wave induced translational ship motion,\n\n{circumflex over (z)},\n\nwhere v, v, and vare surge, sway, and heave motions, respectively.\n","Generally speaking, there are different choices of reference frames. In the inventive ship motion model, the reference frame is determined as follows: The origin of the reference frame is on the mean water surface, shifted vertically from the ship's center of mass. Therefore, the mass center is located at (0, 0, z) in this reference frame. The x-axis passes from the stern to the bow. In addition, the reference frame moves horizontally with the ship, i.e., with the speed\n\n\u2261()\n\nThe y-coordinate points to the port, and the z-coordinate is upward.\n\n(ii) Fluid Hydrodynamic Equations\n","The fluid flows at the surface and inside the water, \u2212H\u2266z\u2266\u03b7, are governed by the following equations:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mo":"\u2207","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},"mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mo":"\u2202","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","msup":{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2261"},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":","}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"^"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mstyle":{"mtext":"\/"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]},{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"^"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mstyle":{"mtext":"\/"}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"y"}]}],"mo":"+"}}}},"mo":","}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},{"mi":["p","\u03c1"]}],"mo":["+","+","+","-","-"],"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"\u03c6"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["u","s"]},{"mi":["v","h"]}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"-"}},{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"\u03c6"}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["u","s"]},{"mi":["v","h"]}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"\u00b7","mi":"x"},{"mi":"v","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"}}],"mi":"gz"},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03b7"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03b7"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"h"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["u","s"]},{"mi":["v","h"]}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"-"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Because the reference frame moves horizontally with the ship, and because ship horizontal motion is not assumed steady in our model, the acceleration effect is then given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["u","s"]},{"mi":["v","h"]}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"\u00b7","mi":"x"}}},"br":{}},"The boundary conditions are:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"z"}]},"mo":"=","mn":"0."}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["{circumflex over (n)}\u00b7\u2207\u03c6={circumflex over (n)}\u00b7[u","+v","x","\u2212x"],"sub":["s","s","c","c","s "],"sup":["\u03a3","\u03a3"]},"In the inventive ship motion model, the far-field radiation conditions (as x\u2192\u221e) are approximated on the borders of the computational domain, bounded by the forward boundary \u03a3, the side and the aft boundaries \u03a3. Thus,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03c6"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":["\u03c6","e"]}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["u","s"]},{"mi":["v","h"]}],"mo":"+"}}}},{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"=","msub":{"mi":["\u03b6","e"]}}],"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["f","a ","s","h"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"o":["\u2207\u03c6","\u03c6","\u03b6","\u03b6","(*)"],"i":["u","+v"]},"As disclosed by their U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, in order to study arbitrary ships in steep incident waves, the present inventors use a finite element method on the ship surface boundary, and a pseudo-spectral method in the global domain. A bi-linear interpolation is applied to transfer the information between the finite-element meshes and the collocation points. It is emphasized that evaluation of the boundary condition (See Equation (5)) is a most challenging problem for the present inventors' numerical modeling. The ship boundary \u03a3 itself is specified in a different mesh description, thus requiring appropriate interpolation for numerical modeling. Further, much higher resolution is required to resolve complicated boundary geometries and small-scale flow near the boundary \u03a3. The latter is particular important for accurately modeling interactions between the ship and the surrounding waves. As disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, a pressure correction is introduced on the ship boundary \u03a3 so that the flow satisfies the boundary condition Equation (5) and does so without any of the mathematical drawbacks confronting other methodologies.","(iii) Solid Body Motion Equations","In any given reference frame, the mass center of an object is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["r","c"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":["m","ship"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["V","ship"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c1","ship"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"r","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"V"}}}}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["ship ","ship ","c ","c","c","c "],"i":["Classical Mechanics, ","x",",d"],"sup":"rd ","in-line-formulae":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"^"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"^"},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["v","s"]}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}}},"In the inventive ship motion model's reference frame, the three-dimensional rotation about xis denoted by the angular velocity \u03a9,\n\n\u03a9\u2261(\u03a9,\u03a9,\u03a9).\n\nIts (x, y, z) components are also called roll, pitch and yaw, respectively. Temporal variation of any point xon the ship boundary is governed by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2211"},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}}},{"mi":"\u03a9","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2211"},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["m","ship"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["v","s"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}},{"msub":[{"mi":["D","trans"]},{"mi":["v","s"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"},{"msup":[{"mi":["F","p"]},{"mi":["F","g"]}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"trans ","sup":["p ","g "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","p"]},"mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"wet"},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"n","mo":"^"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"p","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03a3"}}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["F","V","\u2212m","g, "],"sup":"g","sub":["water","wet","ship"]},"where \u03c1is the water density, g is the gravity acceleration vector, \u03a3and Vare the wetted surface and underwater volume of the ship, respectively.","The solid body rotation is governed by the Louisville equation (defined in the reference frame attached to the solid body, also referred to herein as the \u201cship reference frame\u201d):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u00b7","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03a9"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}},{"mi":"\u03a9","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","\u03a9"],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["D","rotat"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03a9"}],"mo":["+","+"]},{"msup":[{"mi":["\u0393","p"]},{"mi":["\u0393","g"]}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"rotat "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","ij"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["V","ship"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"V"},{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"i","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03b4","ij"]}},{"msub":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"i"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}},"mi":"j"}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"-"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sup":["p ","g "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["\u0393","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"wet"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2211"},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["x","c"]}}}}},"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062"],"mover":{"mi":"n","mo":"^"},"mi":"p"}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"sup":"g","i":["x","\u2212x","V","g, "],"sub":["wet","c","water","wet"]},"where xis the geometric center of the underwater ship volume V. The dissipative coefficients Dand Dare dependent upon ship geometry, mass characteristics, Froude number, incident wavelength, etc.","In the inventive ship motion model, the forces Fand F, and the torques \u0393and \u0393on the ship are from the interactions between the ship and the waves. They are calculated from the total pressure p on the ship surface and the variation of the ship underwater position. The pressure p is given by Equation (2). In other words, it is determined by the total velocity potential \u03c6. No parameterization (such as added mass or damping coefficients) is employed for the inventive calculation. The effect of the ship solid body motion on waves is described by the ship translational velocities u+vin Equation (2), Equation (5), Equation (6), and Equation (7); the ship angular velocity \u03a9 is described in Equation (5). Therefore, interactions between the ship and the waves affect not only ship motion, but also the surface waves in the domain(s) of interest.","(iv) Coordinate Transformation","In order to retain computational efficiency and local resolution near the ship boundary, it is often convenient inventive practice to solve the equations of the system in the ship reference frame (centered at x). In this reference frame, the position vectors are described by\n\n=(),\n\nwhere the superscript T means the transpose of the vector. Therefore, the relationship between the position vector x in the model reference frame and xis given by\n\n,\n\n\u00b7().\u2003\u2003(13)\n\nwhere A is the transformation matrix, which can be represented by three Euler angles (\u03b8, \u03b8, \u03b8) about the (x, y, z) axes, respectively:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"A","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","z"]}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","z"]}}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","z"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","z"]}}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","y"]}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","y"]}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","y"]}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","y"]}}}]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","x"]}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","x"]}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","x"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","x"]}}}]}]}}}]}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}}}}},"In general, other sets of Euler angles can be used for A, as long as no two consecutive angles are defined relative to the same axis; see Goldstein et al., supra. Since A is the rotational transformation matrix, A=A. In the ship reference frame, the ship boundary does not vary with time. Therefore, time variation of the ship position in the model reference frame is governed by that of the transformation matrix A, which, by Equation (10) and Equation (13), is of the form",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["A","ij"]}},{"msub":[{"mi":["\u025b","ikl"]},{"mi":["\u03a9","k"]},{"mi":["A","lj"]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["ijk ","x","y","z"]},"In the inventive ship motion model, the time integration of the ship position is carried out as follows: Given the Euler angle vector \u03b8(t) and the angular velocity \u03a9(t) at time t, the new transformation matrix A(t+\u0394t) is obtained via Equation (15). The new ship boundary in the model reference frame is then determined by Equation (13),\n\n()()=()\u00b7,\n\n()=(),\u2003\u2003(16)\n\nAll forces and torques are then evaluated with the updated ship boundary in the inventive model reference frame.\n","For benchmarking of their inventive ship motion model, the present inventors selected a ship\/boat test model, viz., Delft Catamaran No. 372. It was designed at Delft University for Army Theater Support Vessel. The specific parameters can be found in Vessel Response (VERES) Program Users Manual; see R. V. Veer, Jr., \u201cExperimental Results of Motions and Structural Loads on the 372 Catamaran Model in Head and Oblique Waves,\u201d Report 1130, U.S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Va. 22161, 1998, page 117. Some of the dimensions of the Delft Catamaran model are as follows: the overall length is 3.11 m; the length between perpendiculars is 3 m; the overall beam is 0.94 m; the beam of a demi-hull is 0.24 m; the draught, Ap and Fp are each equal to 0.15 m; the displacement is 87.07 kg.","First are examined the properties of various forces and torques in Equation (11) and Equation (12).  shows, by way of example, the (non-dimensional) vertical components of the forces governing the ship heave motion for Delft Catamaran 372 at a Froude number F=0.3. The solid line is the pressure force F, and the dashed linear is the buoyancy force F. From  one could observe that the two forces tend to offset each other. However, due to the phase difference (that arises from the delay in the ship response to the incident waves) between the two forces, they do not cancel exactly each other at any given time. The oscillatory net force induces the ship heave motion oscillation, as shown in . Similar properties can be also found in the torques acting on the ship body. Shown in  are the (non-dimensional) torques \u0393(solid line) and \u0393(dashed line) for the Delft model Catamaran 372 at F=0.6. The corresponding pitch motion is shown in . In these two examples, the incident wave length \u03bb is 1.6 times the ship length L.","The present inventors benchmark the inventive ship motion model with respect to experimentation and some existing ship models. For this purpose, the ship Catamaran No. 372 is selected for various Froude numbers and incident wave lengths. As shown in  through , the inventive ship motion model results are indicated by the solid lines, the VERES model results are indicated by the dashed lines, the experimental results from the MARIN Model test are indicated by the triangular dotted lines, and the Delft Model test results are indicated by the circular dotted lines.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"sub":"r"},"The benchmarking results for F=0.45 are shown in  and . The results for the heave motions, shown in , agree well. Some discrepancies are found, however, in the results of the pitch motion, shown in . In particular, when the wavelength of the incident waves is comparable to the ship length, the pitch motion amplitude from VERES is 30 percent greater than that measured in the experiment. Nevertheless, the results from the inventive ship motion model agree well with the experiment.","The benchmarking tests illustrated in  through  more manifestly demonstrate superiority of the inventive ship motion model as compared with the VERES implementation of existing ship motion models.  and  show the results for F=0.6. In this case, one clearly observes the significant differences between the VERES results and the experimental data. Notwithstanding the coupling of the pitch and heave motions, the differences between the numerical model results and experimental data for these two motions may not match. It is therefore appropriate to separately address the errors of these two motions. For the heave motion, the VERES results are generally about 15-20 percent different from the experiments. The difference for the pitch motion is generally even larger; that is, the amplitude from VERES is approximately 45 percent larger than that from the experiments. In contrast, the difference between the inventive ship motion model results and the experimental results are seen to be negligible in both  and .","For larger Froude numbers, the differences between VERES and the experiments increase with the Froude number F. When Froude numbers are larger one also begins to observe differences between the inventive ship motion model results and the experimental data. Nevertheless, even when the inventive ship motion model results and the experimental measurements appreciably differ, the difference between the inventive ship motion model results and the experimental measurements is much smaller than that between the VERES results and the experimental results. This is clearly demonstrated for F=0.75, as shown in  and . From  one observes that the relative difference between the VERES results and the experimental results for the pitch motion is approximately 70 percent; in contrast, the relative difference of the inventive ship motion model results is approximately 10-15 percent.","Roll motion is one of the most important ship responses to waves, and is very difficult to predict due to the complexity of ship-wave interaction and the sensitivity thereof to ship bilge keels and appendages. This sensitivity needs special attention, both in modeling corresponding physical processes and in numerical treatment. One important process in this regard is the roll damping. Without an appropriate roll damping model, accurate prediction of ship roll motion is inconceivable.","There have been several theoretical and experimental attempts to model the roll damping in the past. G. H. Bryan (1900) was perhaps one of the first researchers to study the bilge keel's effect. Forty years later, R. W. L. Gawn (1940) made a significant contribution with his studies on roll damping in still water. Later, T. Hishida (1952, 1954, 1955) provided a theoretical model on the roll damping for ship hulls in simple oscillatory waves. M. Martin (1958), N. Tanaka (1957, 1958, 1959, 1961), H. Kato (1965), C. G. Moody (1961), L. E. Motter (1967), and H. Jones (1978, 1979) provided experimental results on the bilge keels' effect. Several efforts tried to address the effect of ship speed on roll damping. Y. Watanabe and S. Inoue (1957) first tested the roll damping effect at zero ship speed. Later, Y. Yamanouchi (1961), W. E. Bolton (1972) and R. F. Lofft (1973) tested the damping with finite forward ship speed. Their findings, as well as many others, showed that there are considerable differences between the experimental data and the existing theoretical results. With the linear strip theory, Y. Himeno (1981) improved the theoretical model with his roll damping coefficients which have, to date, been widely used. However, as Himeno himself acknowledged, the roll damping process is still not fully understood. One reason that understanding of the roll damping effect is hindered is the nonlinear interaction between ship body and surrounding fluid (including waves). This nonlinear interaction affects not only ship motion, but also (and perhaps more importantly, as discussed hereinbelow) the underwater ship volume.","Appropriate modeling of roll damping is one of the key issues in accurately predicting ship roll motion. The difficulties in modeling roll damping arise mainly from the nonlinear nature of the phenomenon. Roll damping depends strongly on the nonlinear waves (incident waves and ship motion generated waves), and on the interactions among the waves and between the waves and the ship body. In addition, roll damping depends strongly on the underwater geometry of the ship. The underwater geometry changes over time because a ship water line (defined in calm water) does not apply to a moving ship; rather, its underwater volume depends on ship motion speed and on the interactions between the ship body and surrounding waves.","The present inventors have derived a better roll damping model from the basic equations of fluid motions. Their new, dynamically consistent, bilge keels roll damping function reduces the effect of the empirical or linear parameters. In a general context, a flow passing by a solid object is different from that without the object, as can be observed from different streamlines of flow. This difference is often called, by geophysicists, the \u201cblocking effect\u201d of the object on the flow. There is a long history of studying blocking mechanisms in a wide variety of fluid systems. In this study, the present inventors use the term \u201cblocking effect\u201d for the net pressure force on the surface. The inventive approach in this regard is based on the studies of the blocking mechanisms of an object in potential flow. The interaction of a ship body with the surrounding flow possesses similar physical characteristics; however, this situation is much more challenging because the underwater ship geometry\u2014e.g., the solid object interacting with the flow\u2014changes in time. This change depends on the interaction, as well. Still, the potential benefit of this inventive approach is great, as the derived damping function is independent of the ship hull. According to this inventive approach, the hull geometry effect is described explicitly by a variable in the function; so are other environmental conditions, such as sheep motion state, incident waves, and wave breaking mechanisms.","(i) Roll Damping: Relationship between Ship Geometry and Ship Motion","In a linear parameterized model, the underwater ship geometry is assumed unchanged in determining ship responding motion; see A. R. Magee and R. F. Beck, -1988, page 192. In reality, the underwater geometry does change according to the ship's solid body motion. In accordance with the present inventors' modeling methodology, such change is naturally incorporated; its effect on ship motion and on ship-wave interaction can be identified in the inventive numerical results. The impact of time-varying underwater ship geometry on ship motion is isolated as explained hereinbelow.","It is well known that the response of a solid body to external forcing is strongest when the forcing frequency resonates with the intrinsic or natural frequency of the solid body. The ship intrinsic frequencies in water can be determined similarly as for a pendulum. Given an initial ship position in calm water that is away from its equilibrium position, it will oscillate (rotate or move vertically) according to the buoyancy force, e.g., the restoring forces in Equation (11) and Equation (12). In numerical simulation, the responses are described by a time series of related quantities (e.g. velocity potential, or rotating angles). The intrinsic frequency can be obtained from the time series via Fourier transform.","The whole ship geometry, not only the part below the water line, is necessary to correctly determine the natural frequencies of the ship under consideration. To demonstrate this numerically, the present inventors selected two ship hulls, viz., the ONR tumblehome hull () and the ONR flared hull (). The respective geometries of the two hulls under the calm water line are identical, but their respective geometries above water are different. Above the calm water line, the sidewall of the tumblehome hull tilts 10\u00b0 inward as depicted in , and the sidewall of the flared hull tilts 10\u00b0 outward as depicted in .","Linearized ship motion models would yield the same intrinsic frequencies for the tumblehome hull and the flared hull, as the underwater line geometries are identical. However, the inventive ship motion model results indicate otherwise, since the inventive ship motion takes the entire ship geometry into consideration. The intrinsic roll frequencies of the two hulls are shown in  (tumblehome hull) and  (flared hull). From  and  one can observe clearly that the intrinsic frequency of the tumblehome hull is lower than that of the flared hull. Without correct intrinsic frequencies, one would not be able to correctly determine ship responses to external forcing on the ship. These numerical results hence demonstrate that the complete ship geometry is important for correct modeling ship motion, in particular near the resonant conditions.","(ii) Roll Damping: Roll Damping Function","Real and experimental ship hulls often include appendages, such as bilge keels, rudders, etc. The appendages produce roll damping that can reduce ship roll motions by as much as 10-20%. It is thus important that roll damping be implemented into numerical models. See Y. Himeno, , Report No. 239, Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., September 1981.","To balance numerical accuracy and efficiency, naval architects have developed many simple, parameterized roll damping models. For example, Himeno (1981) suggested the following linearized roll damping coefficient:\n\n({dot over (\u03c6)})={dot over (\u03c6)}\u2003\u2003(17)\n\nThe roll damping function B({dot over (\u03c6)}) is linearly proportional to the rotation rate {dot over (\u03c6)} with a constant damping coefficient B. Himeno (1981) also suggested a more sophisticated coefficient for simple oscillation with a frequency \u03c9,\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["B","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"B","mn":"1"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"8","mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c9","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","A"]},{"mi":"B","mn":"2"}]},{"mfrac":{"mn":["3","4"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"},"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03d5","A"],"mn":"2"},"msub":{"mi":"B","mn":"3"}}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1,2,3 ","A ","e ","A"]},"According to an earlier approach by the present inventors, the roll damping coefficient is determined by the difference of the two adjacent wave peaks (or valleys) of the free roll oscillation (with a finite initial departing angle) in calm water. An example of such oscillation is shown in . Nevertheless, this approach, though simple and nonlinear in nature (and thus better than linearized results), is itself limited in its failure to account for possible dependencies of the coefficient on roll oscillation frequency. This could create serious problems when ships are not in calm water. In more realistic situations, ships roll with a wide spectrum of frequencies. The damping coefficient derived from a single (intrinsic) frequency is simply not sufficient.","This has prompted the present inventors to search for a more realistic approach to model roll damping effect. Various aspects of existing methodologies are incorporated into the present invention's approach. For instance, the inventive approach borrows a notion from the classical analysis of blocking effect of a solid object in a flow; see L. D. Landau and E. M. Lifshitz, , Butterworth and Heinemann, Ch. 6, page 539 (1999). This approach has been applied to many fluid systems, e.g., an object in stratified fluid (D. D. Freund and R. E. Meyer, \u201cOn the Mechanism of Blocking in a Stratified Fluid,\u201d ., Vol. 54, pp 719-744, 1972), wind past a two-dimensional terrain (S. T. Garner, \u201cBlocking and Frontogenesis by Two-Dimensional Terrain in Baroclinic Flow. Part II: Analysis of Flow Stagnation Mechanisms,\u201d 56, pp 1509-1523, 1998), and current past seamount (Ray-Qing Lin and W. L. Thomas III, \u201cShip Stability Study in the Coastal Region: New Coastal Wave Model Coupled with a Dynamic Stability Model,\u201d Twenty-Third Symposium on Naval Hydrodynamics, Val De Reuil, France, 17-22 Sep. 2000, National Academy of Sciences Press, 2001). Bilge keels on ship hulls play a role similar to a seamount in the ocean. This suggests to the present inventors the importation of elements for the problem being addressed by the present invention. However, the present problem differs from the seamount problem insofar as, in the present problem, the underwater parts of the bilge keels (e.g., two bilge keels) vary in time as the ship moves in water.","The inventive approach does not solve the present problem directly via numerical model (for the fundamental equations of the fluid mechanics). Instead, the inventive approach is \u201cquasi-analytical\u201d in nature in that certain simplified mathematical formulations are used to derive the damping function. The price paid by the inventive approach, as it is frequently embodied, is that not all nonlinear damping effects are included. To include the fully nonlinear effects of the appendages according to inventive practice, one could use a coupled system, such as the present invention's nonlinear ship motion model coupled with a fully nonlinear viscous flow model (e.g. RANS); however, this can be, computationally, very time consuming or even impractical.","According to the inventive approach, generally, the roll damping can be evaluated from the torque arising from the pressure acting on the blocking area \u0100,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","block"]}},"mi":"i"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c1"},{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["A","_"]},"mi":"block"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","n"],"mo":"\u00d7"}},"mi":"i"},{"mi":"P","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"s"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"D","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","i"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"To avoid such difficulties, the present inventors borrow the following idea from previous studies of blocking mechanisms: The blocking effect can be included by deducting an effective blocking area A[not \u0100in Equation (19)] from the ship wet surface \u03a3in the integral for the torques on the ship body:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027","num":"00027"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u0393","msub":{"mi":["rotat","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":["l","D","R"],"mo":["+","+"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["A","block"]}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["x","s"]},{"mi":["x","c"]}],"mo":"-"}}}},"mo":"\u00d7","mi":"nP"}}}}},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"4"}],"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"20"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":["block","block(t)","block","bk","bk","bk ","bk ","bk ","bk "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["A","=W","*H","L","t"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00028","num":"00028"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["L","bk"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["J","l"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["l","j"]},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","j"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","2 ","j ","j","j","block ","bk "]},"There is no existing result on modeling W. Therefore, the present inventors start from the physical intuition and typical approaches in nonlinear theory. Intuitively, one could argue that the larger the rolling angle and the faster the oscillation, the larger the effective blocking area. This implies that, in the simplest form:\n\nW=c\u03b8\u03c9\u2003\u2003(23)\n\nwhere \u03b8is the rolling angle magnitude and \u03c9 is the rolling frequency. On the other hand, general multi-scale analysis (C. M. Bender and S. A. Orzag, , Chapter 1, starting page 593, \u201cAsymptotic Methods and Perturbation Theory,\u201d Springer, N.Y., 1972) demonstrates that nonlinear effects can be modeled by adding higher order terms (as the power of 2n) in Equation (23):\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00029","num":"00029"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["W","block"]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["c","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c9"}}},{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["+","+","+","+"],"msup":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c9"}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c9"}}},"mn":"4"},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","mn":"3"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c9"}}},"mn":"6"}],"mi":"\u2026"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c9"}}},{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}]}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Since the roll motions are in general more complicated than a simple oscillation, there is a wide spectrum of oscillating frequencies. These frequencies are often related to those of external forcing. In this application of the present invention, the external forcing is provided by incident waves. To properly account for the contributions from individual oscillating modes, the present inventors replace the single frequency \u03c9 in Equation (24) with a weighted distribution over the incident wave frequency domain:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00030","num":"00030"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"->","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mi":"A"}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"25"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"i"},"In the present inventors' analysis, K=3 is chosen. Of course, K can be chosen differently in other applications. Generally, the principle is that K should be larger for stronger nonlinearity, but there is no established theory for selecting an optimal K. The coefficients cin the expansion Equation (23) depend on the nonlinearity of the physical problem (e.g., the nonlinear equations of the system). It decreases as k increases.","From Equation (24) we can observe that the coefficient cdescribes the nonlinear effect of the mode (\u03b8\u03c9), which is proportional to \u03b1(\u03b1 is the typical magnitude of \u03b8\u03c9). However, we set the coefficients to be normalized in our study, i.e.,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00031","num":"00031"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"c","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":"2k+1","sup":"\u2212(k+1)"},"The formulation Equation (24) of Ais generic; that is, it is derived without any assumption on ship and environment properties. Therefore, it can be applied to arbitrary ships in arbitrary environment. The coefficients care constants because of our normalization assumption. Therefore, the rolling angle \u03b8in Equation (24) depends on the ship body characteristics, the ship motion state (e.g., speed, rotation), and the environment (e.g., incident waves, ship motion-generated waves, kinematics dissipation, and wave breaking processes).","It is pointed out again that, since it depends on many characteristics, \u03b8must be determined via solving a coupled ship motion-surface wave system. This is what the present inventors accomplish in their experimental numerical simulations that they style \u201cDiSSEL,\u201d previously discussed herein. DiSSEL represents a synthesis of their inventive ship models. The \u201cDiSSEL_SW\u201d component of DiSSEL models fully nonlinear ship-wave interactions. The \u201cDiSSEL_SB\u201d component of DiSSEL models six-degree, ship solid body motions. In terms of its computations, the DiSSEL prototype can be summarized as follows: First, an initial state is estimated from the peak of the incident wave (in the ship coordinate). Then, the full system (without the bilge keels) is solved from the initial state via numerical time integration. The simulation stops when the system reaches to a well-developed, dynamically stable state. The rolling angle amplitude \u03b8is then determined from the stable state.","The effective blocking area Ais in general larger than the real blocking area \u0100. In the inventive model, the additional area is added in the down-stream side of the bilge keels. Since the roll motion is oscillating with time, therefore the down-stream is oscillating with time. Therefore, both the size and the location of Aare well defined. The expansion Equation (17) is consistent in format with other approaches in modeling solid body motion with damping effects; see E. Kreyszig, , John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1983, p 988.","It is pointed out that the roll damping is strongly associated with the time-varying underwater geometry. For example, Wdecreases as the bilge keels rise above the water; an extreme case is that W=0 when the bilge keels are completely above water.","(iii) Roll Damping: Roll Damping Results","To examine the present inventors' damping function model, described hereinabove, the present inventors used their DiSSEL ship motion model to study roll motion of two ONR-form ship hulls, viz., tumblehome hull and flared hull. As previously described herein, the present inventors' DiSSEL ship motion model includes two components, viz., \u201cDiSSEL_SW\u201d and \u201cDiSSEL_SB.\u201d The ship-wave interaction is modeled in the DiSSEL_SW component. Ship solid body motion under the influence of the interaction is modeled in the DiSSEL_SB component.","The tumblehome hull and the flared hull were selected by the present inventors for these studies because these two hulls have different above-waterline geometries (the waterline being defined in calm water), and because of the availability of experimental data in the David Taylor Model Basin (DTMB) laboratory (West Bethesda, Md.) to use for benchmarking the present invention's numerical results. The two problems that the present inventors focused upon in these studies of the bilge keels roll damping effect were (i) the impact of above-calm-water-line ship hull geometry on roll motion and (ii) the blocking effect of the bilge keel. The present inventors used their DiSSEL ship motion model to test the significance of their roll damping function in predicting ship roll motion. Their numerical experiment demonstrates clearly that the implementation of this roll damping component improves significantly the accuracy of numerical model results, as compared with the ship experiment data from the NSWCCD Maneuvering and Seakeeping Facility.","Illustrated in  through  are the numerical results of the tumblehome hull roll motion in a regular beam sea impinging on the starboard side of the ship. In  and , respectively, the wave amplitude is 2.23 m and 6.5 m. In both cases, the incident wavelength Lis twice the ship length L, i.e., \u03bb\u2261L\/L=2. The other parameters are the same, as well: Fn=0.066, h=1.25 m, L=102.67 m (the full length). The present inventors calculated the roll motion with (dashed lines) and without (solid lines) the bilge keels. As demonstrated in the numerical results, the bilge keel's blocking effect on the roll motion is very significant. It is clearly observed from  that the roll amplitude is reduced by as much as 20% when the bilge keels' blocking effects are included. The reduction increases significantly with the incident wave amplitude, as shown in . This implies that the bilge keels' overall blocking effect is stronger for larger incident wave amplitudes. It is clearly seen in  that the blocking effect changes the roll motion frequencies, as well.","This finding in rolling wave frequency change prompted the present inventors to investigate further the blocking effect with different incident wavelengths. In  are the roll motion results for \u03bb=2.5. The wave amplitude is 2.845 m, slightly larger than that in . The other parameters remain the same. The present inventors' numerical results show that the reduction in  is obviously smaller than that shown in . This result\u2014that the reduction is smaller with larger wave amplitudes\u2014seemed contradictory to our earlier conclusion; however, this contradiction really indicates the importance of the resonance in the blocking effect. The wavelength in  is closer to the intrinsic frequency of the tumblehome (shown in ), and thus is closer to the resonance. On the other hand, the wavelength in  is further away from the resonant frequency. Therefore, the smaller reduction in  indicates that the blocking effect will increase significantly when closer to the resonance. To further test this, the present inventors evaluated the ship roll motion with the same conditions as those in , but with a smaller \u03bb=1.75. The results are shown in . From these figures we can observe that the blocking effect in  is slightly stronger than that in , consistent with the present inventors' earlier conclusions. Therefore, the numerical results suggest that the bilge keel's blocking effect is stronger for larger wave amplitude (with a given wavelength), and is stronger when the incident wavelength is closer to the hull intrinsic frequencies.","The inventive damping function is also benchmarked with experimental data. The present inventors calculated the roll motions of the tumblehome and flared hulls with various incident wavelengths (or the normalized wavelength \u03bb). These numerical results, in terms of the normalized roll motion amplitude versus \u03bb, are summarized in . In these tests, h=1.25 m and Fn=0.066. In , the solid line represents the numerical rolling angles of the tumblehome hull, and the dashed line represents the numerical rolling angles of the flared hull. The corresponding experimental data are in squares and circular dots for the two hulls, respectively. From  it is clearly observed that the numerical results agree well with the experimental data. It is also noticed from  that the tumblehome hull roll angles are much larger than those of the flared hull under the same conditions. The difference is the largest when \u03bb equals the resonant value, in which case the roll angle of the tumblehome hull nearly doubles that of the flared hull.  shows the roll motion of the tumblehome hull as it varies with time in full scale, where \u03bb=L\/L=2.25, and incident wave amplitude=2.84 meters. This roll motion is associated with the solid line in the resonant area as shown in .","The convergence of the numerical solutions can be tested by the distribution of the spectral coefficients of the physical variables (e.g. the velocity potential \u03c6) with respect to the (discrete) expansion wave numbers (k, k) in the (x, y) axes. To show the convergence, plotted in  and  are the distributions of the spectral coefficients of the velocity potential \u03c6 (of the solution in  at t=23s) in the (k, k) spectral space. Shown in  are the distributions of |\u03c6| in kfor different k, while shown in  are the distributions in kfor different k. From  and  one can find that the spectral coefficient decreases by more than 10 orders of magnitude from small wave numbers (k, k) to the maximum wave numbers in the expansion. For example, the coefficient for the wave numbers (k, k)=(0.0164, 0.0164) is twelve orders of magnitude greater than that for (k, k)=(1.0308, 1.0308). In particular, the decrease is monotonic, except at very large values of k; however, in latter cases, the magnitude is very small, beyond the accuracy of the computing systems. Therefore, the convergence of the numerical solutions is quite satisfactory.","Presented in the instant disclosure is an inventive algorithm on the ship solid-body-motion-driven interactions between the ship and waves (including incidental waves). The inventive ship motion model is fully nonlinear; that is, no linearization is introduced in its modeling of ship position, wave-wave and ship-wave interactions. All forces on ship bodies are fully implemented in the inventive ship motion model; neither linearization nor parameterization is introduced in the inventive ship motion model, with the exception of dissipative effect due to wave-breaking.","The present inventors tested the inventive ship motion model using the Delft Catamaran No. 372 ship\/boat test model. The benchmark results for heave and pitch motions, illustrated in  through , demonstrate that the present invention's ship motion model agrees well with experiments for various Froude numbers F. The results also show that the inventive ship motion model is more accurate than the linear models, especially when the Froude number is large. The nonlinear effects are especially significant for steep incident waves and\/or large Froude numbers. The results of the inventive ship motion model results are demonstrably much closer to experimental results than are the results from linearized models; nevertheless, small differences are still observed between the inventive ship motion model results and experimental data for very large Froude numbers. These discrepancies may be partly attributable to numerical errors introduced in mapping finite different ship body grids to pseudo-spectral grids.","The present inventors' ship motion model complements their ship-wave interaction model as disclosed in their U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 filed 1 Sep. 2006. Their ship-wave interaction model involves steady state ship motion wherein a global pseudo-spectral method is applied together with a finite element or finite different ship boundary grid, and wherein the boundary condition can be solved indirectly with an effective pressure field near the ship boundary. Their inventive ship motion model can be used for single-hull or multi-hull vessels. The present inventors' DiSSEL ship motion computer program embodies a combination of elements of their ship-wave interaction model and their ship motion model.","Any aspect or group of aspects of the present invention, and\/or the invention disclosed by U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, admits of embodiment as a method, an apparatus (e.g., comprising a machine having a memory), or a computer program product. That is, the present inventors' ship motion model (such as exemplified by the DiSSEL_SB component of their DiSSEL computer program), or their ship-wave interaction model (such as exemplified by the DiSSEL_SW component of their DiSSEL computer program), or some combination thereof (such as exemplified by their overall DiSSEL computer program, which comprises the DiSSEL_SB component and the DiSSEL_SW component), can be thus embodied. Typical inventive practice provides for utilization of a computer (including a processor) for rendering mathematical determinations in accordance with inventive principles. A computer program product (e.g., algorithmic software) embodying one or more aspects of the present invention and\/or the invention of application Ser. No. 11\/518,740 is resident in the memory of the computer.  is diagrammatically illustrative of residence of an inventive computer program product  in the memory of the present invention's computer , and is intended herein to be generally representative of the involvement of computers in practice of the present invention and or the invention of application Ser. No. 11\/518,740, in any or all of their aspects. The graph in  is shown connected to computer  by way of example, as an inventive computer program product  can be used to generate multifarious types of information.","The present invention, which is disclosed herein, is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein, which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions, modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention, which is indicated by the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 7","sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 7","FIG. 9"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 8","FIG. 10"],"sub":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 18","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22"],"sub":["in","ship"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 25","FIG. 23","FIG. 24","FIG. 25"],"sub":["10","x","y","y","x ","x ","y "]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
