---
title: User-controlled file interaction
abstract: User-controlled file interaction is described, including detecting an interaction with a file presented on a client, the interaction indicating a preference associated with the file, selecting other files for presentation based on the preference, the other files being similar to the element, and presenting the other files on the client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655725&OS=08655725&RS=08655725
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08655725
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/726,953, filed Mar. 23, 2007 and entitled \u201cAdvertising Rewards and Referrals,\u201d which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.","The present invention relates generally to computer programs and software applications, and online advertising. More specifically, user-controlled file interaction is described.","The Internet and World Wide Web allow the access, retrieval, and viewing of various types of content. In general, content can include data and information intended for various purposes, including editorial, special interests, commercial, advertising, business, recreational, political, military, special interests, and others. Conventionally, content for a web page is often inter-mixed with different types of content, such as advertisements (e.g., tile, banner, static, video and audio-based, and other types), which are often used to generate revenue for advertising product or service companies. Advertising and marketing agencies and other entities often invest substantial resources to develop, create, place, and promote goods and services of clients, often using online advertising and marketing vehicles and techniques, such as banner, tile, cube, interstitial, video, audio, multi-media or rich media, and other types. However, online advertisements typically have very low returns on investment. In other words, conventional online advertising techniques typically have large distribution, but very low response rates to discounts, deals, sales, or other advertised sales. Further, gathering and analyzing advertisement and campaign performance information regarding what users like and dislike is often difficult, data mining-intensive, expensive, and time-consuming. Still further, advertisements and other displayed information are typically targeted using conventional techniques that are not effective, accurate, or inexpensive.","Some conventional online advertising techniques provide static information that may be viewed, but not interacted with by a user. Other conventional advertisements allow for user interaction by clicking on or clicking \u201cthrough\u201d the ad to an off-page link or other destination, where data and information related to the advertisement are presented. Still other conventional advertisements allow users to click on a region of a link, enter information, or provide personal information to obtain an incentive or other reward. However, users are unable to control the delivery and presentation of these advertisements. Further, conventional advertisements do not allow users to determine or control which advertisements are presented. Conventional advertisements that allow for user interaction also do not provide accurate data or information on campaign effectiveness and often fail to provide any information that suggests what users find desirable or undesirable about a given advertisement.","Thus, a solution for gathering user feedback to improve user targeting without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.","Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways, including as a system, a process, an apparatus, or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical, electronic, or wireless communication links. In general, operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order, unless otherwise provided in the claims.","A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples, but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.","In some examples, the described techniques may be implemented as a computer program or application (\u201capplication\u201d) or as a module or sub-component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software, hardware, firmware, circuitry, or a combination thereof. If implemented as software, the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming, development, scripting, or formatting languages, frameworks, syntax, applications, protocols, objects, or techniques, including C, Objective C, C++, C#, Flex\u2122, Java\u2122, Javascript\u2122, Ajax, COBOL, Fortran, ADA, XML, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, HTTP, XMPP, and others. Design, publishing, and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver\u00ae, Shockwave\u00ae, Flash\u00ae, and Fireworks\u00ae may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.","User-controlled file interaction is described, including presenting advertisements that are configured for user interaction. In some examples, an interaction may be an input such as a mouse click, mouse-over (i.e., moving an icon using an input\/output device such as a computer mouse), clicking and dragging, text entry, or the like. An input may be used to provide input as to whether to present a given advertisement, substantially similar or similar advertisements, different types of advertisements, or other types of files. A file, in some examples, may be logical groups of data or information that may be used to instantiate an object, process, or set of objects or processes when invoked. Files may be content such as editorial articles, originally authored articles, documents, images, photos, video, audio, multimedia elements, advertisements, and the like. In other words, other types of data or information besides advertisements may be implemented using the described techniques. Here, an input may be used to control the presentation of advertisements or other types of files. For example, if a given advertisement or file is vetoed, a different type of advertisement may be presented. In other examples, if an advertisement or file is rated using a qualitative or quantitative rating system, the input (i.e., ratings) may be used to determine whether effectiveness of the rated advertisement or file, whether similar advertisements or files should be selected and presented, or whether a category or class of advertisement should be selected, presented, or prevented from presentation. In some examples, similar advertisements may be advertisements that share common feature, design, element (i.e., a design or functional component of an advertisement that is presented with an advertisement), attribute, category, classification, or other characteristic. In other examples, the described techniques may be implemented differently and are not limited to the descriptions provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","112","114","116","118","100","102","104","106","108","110","112","104","1118","104","104","106","110","108","106"]},"In some examples, once content is presented on client , ratings application  may be invoked to provide ratings and other input (e.g., a numerical rating value, a qualitative input (e.g., yes, no, dislike, like, and others), a veto, and others) in response to a file (i.e., an advertisement or other content). For example, when content is presented on display , a user may interact with an advertisement presented with the content by selecting a region, element, or other attribute or characteristic of an advertisement by using an input\/output device such as a mouse, scroll wheel, pointer, keyboard, and others. Ratings application  may be configured to enable client  to provide an input via an interaction that is stored on repository . In some examples, stored inputs on repository  may be evaluated using reporting system  to provide information, reports, analysis, and the like to advertisers on the effectiveness, statistical performance, level of response, and other attributes of an advertisement or other file served by ad server  from repository . In other examples, system  may be configured and implemented differently than shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["119","102","104","106","108","110","112","118","120","122","120","119","106","106","110","122","108","104","119"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["200","202","204","206","208","210","212","200","116","122","202","204","206","208","210","212","204","212"]},"Here, data transferred over API  may be used by application  to identify user preferences associated with advertisements. API  may be used to transfer data between application  and the described modules - and other sources or destinations (e.g., an operating system, another application, port, or other source\/destination). In some examples, user preferences may be determined based on input provided in an interaction with an advertisement or file. For example, a user on client  () may interact with an advertisement by providing a rating. In some examples, a rating may be provided using an application or other facility in which the advertisement or file is presented. In other examples, a rating may be provided directly or indirectly in the advertisement or file. In still other examples, a veto or other subjective, qualitative input may be provided in lieu of a numerical, quantitative input. As yet another example, users may veto an advertisement or group, category, type, or stack (i.e., a group) of advertisements. If a group of advertisements are queued for presentation on display  (e.g., ), a veto may be used to remove or prevent some advertisements in the group from being presented. For example, a user may veto advertisements in an automotive category. A veto would then initiate sending data to control and prevent the further presentation of automotive advertisements from inventor associated with a given website. If a user vetoes an advertisement or a category of advertisements, the remaining advertisements in the group may be presented. However, a threshold value may be set to prevent exceeding a maximum number of advertisements from being vetoed. In other words, advertisements in a group may be vetoed to prevent further presentation, but if the vetoed advertisements exceed a certain number or threshold (e.g., 20%) then the complete group of advertisements may be made available for presentation again. In other examples, different types of inputs other than vetoes and ratings may be provided and are not limited to the examples described.","In some examples, repository  may be a local database, data mart, data warehouse, or other storage facility for storing data that may be accessed by application . For example, data associated with ratings provided by users in response to advertisements may be stored in repository . As another example, data used to generate reports by reporting system  may be stored and accessed in repository . In still other examples, repository  may be a remote repository, as described below in connection with . Here, reporting system  may be included as part of application  and used to generate reports and other analysis that may be useful to advertisers, marketers, agencies, or other entities or individuals interested in evaluating the effectiveness of a given campaign or advertisement. In other examples, application  and the above-described elements may be implemented as an application installed at a single location or at multiple, distributed locations. In some examples, application  may be implemented using web services formats (e.g., IEEE WSDL, and others) to provide a distributed application architecture for providing user control of advertisements.","As an example, application  may be implemented to provide users control over the presentation of advertisements displayed. For example, an automotive advertisement may be presented in a car repair article. When the advertisement is presented, a user may move an icon over the advertisement or an element (e.g., a region, portion, section, or other sub-area of an advertisement) to enable the presentation of a menu, for example, that allows the user to provide a numerical rating for the advertisement. In other examples, a rating menu or choice of rating values may be presented as part of an advertisement. In still other examples, rating values may be presented within the visual display or appearance of an advertisement. For example, a portion of an advertisement may include rating values and, when a user selects a rating value, data is transmitted from client  () to ad server , server , or another destination that stores the rating value. In other examples, when an input\/output icon (e.g., pointer, icon, and the like) is moved over an advertisement presented on display  (), a callout, window, or bubble may appear that presents rating values or options to the user, providing an opportunity to provide feedback regarding the presented advertisement. For example, when a boat advertisement is presented, the user may be a sailor and wish to see other similar advertisements. When a rating value is input (e.g., 5 out of a 5-point scale, selecting a radio button adjacent to a grade of \u201cA\u201d, and others), data is then sent from client  to ad server  and server , requesting other ads that are similar (i.e., other advertisements for boat auctions, boat sales, boat equipment, sailing training, and the like).","By using ratings or rating values, performance of an advertisement may be measured. If the rating indicates (i.e., is above a pre-established threshold value) that the user likes the advertisement and wants to see other similar (i.e., having one or more attributes in common) advertisements, then application  may store this data in repository  and generate a report using reporting system  that indicates the effectiveness or quality of a given advertisement or advertising campaign. Reports may be used to generate quantitative (e.g., statistical) or qualitative (e.g., subjective input, comments, feedback, and the like) information for advertisers, marketers, authors, and others with summary information of a given advertisement or advertising campaign. In other examples, application  may be implemented differently and may also vary in architecture, function, design, operation, or other attributes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["200","202","204","206","220","222","200","202","222","202","204","206","220","222","200","220","222","200","220","222","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIGS. 1A-1B"],"b":["300","302","304","308","310","312","316","318","300","118","310","304","308","310","304","308","310"]},"In some examples, advertisement  may be configured with a portion of its layout (e.g., at one end of advertisement ) made available for presenting user control panel . Here, advertisement  includes user control panel , which may be configured to allow users to input a rating (e.g., \u201cMore like this,\u201d \u201cSometimes,\u201d \u201cNever again,\u201d and others) associated with the ad. When a user inputs a rating (e.g., selecting a radio button next to the selection \u201cMore like this\u201d), data (i.e., control data) may be transmitted to ad server  and server  () to indicate a user preference for receiving other advertisements that are similar to advertisement . For example, if a user finds a recruiting advertisement for the U.S. Navy interesting, he may also want to view other advertisements for different branches of the Armed Forces. When the input is provided using an input\/output device, icon, mechanism, pointer, or the like, a request is sent for other advertisements or files to be sent based upon the user's preference or request. In other examples, display  and the above-described elements may be varied in design, implementation, layout, and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["320","302","304","308","322","312","316","318","310","1","322","322","310","322","310","322"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 1A"],"b":["330","302","304","308","332","312","316","334","334","332","330","106","108","332","332","332","330"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3D","b":["340","302","304","308","342","312","316","344","344","342","342","334","340"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3E","FIG. 3F"],"b":["350","302","304","308","352","312","316","354","352","352","354","354"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3F","FIG. 3E"],"b":["360","302","304","308","362","312","316","364","352","364","362","364"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3G","b":["370","302","304","308","372","312","316"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3H","FIG. 1A"],"b":["380","302","304","308","382","312","316","384","386","384","386","304","308","382","384","384","382","382","380","116"]},"Once presented, user control panel  may be used to provide input that specifies a preference as to whether to veto advertisement . In other examples, user control panel  may be configured differently to allow input of numerical, quantitative, or subject data and information. For example, a text input field may be provided to allow users to specify types of advertisements to serve on display . As another example, a survey of questions may be presented (e.g., ) to allow users to specify whether they like or dislike given advertisements. In still other examples, user control panel  may be implemented differently in terms of design, layout, and function, and are not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2A-2B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["402","404","406","202","408","318","410"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["502","504","506","508"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["510","512","514"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","604","606","608","610","612","614","616","618"]},"According to some examples, computer system  performs specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage device  or disk drive . In some examples, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","In some examples, execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples, two or more computer systems  coupled by communication link  (e.g., LAN, PSTN, or wireless network) may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, and instructions, including program, i.e., application code, through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in disk drive , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various examples are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
