---
title: Adaptive photonic coupler
abstract: A method to maximize the coupling efficiency between a collimated, free-space optical signal and a fiber optic waveguide using an active optical element to steer and focus the collimated beam driven by an adaptive controller that periodically auto-calibrates the active optical element's parameters to maximize the measured power received by the waveguide using a gradient ascent optimization algorithm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041161&OS=08041161&RS=08041161
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08041161
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080709
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I(a) of Executive Order 10096, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force, to the entire right, title and interest therein, including foreign rights.","The invention relates generally to coupling between a collimated, free-space optical signal and a single-mode optical fiber, and in particular to optimizing the alignment and focus of an optical signal into a fiber core based on the measure of transmitted power in the fiber.","Although there have been many examples of active optical elements used in prior art for beam steering, adaptive lenses, and wavefront correction, the present invention is unique in its implementation, control approach simplicity, ability to correct dominant, low-order forms of wavefront error, and robustness. Some of the relevant prior art is discussed here to establish the novelty and utility of the current invention.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,572,616 by Kowel (issued in 1986) teaches an adaptive liquid crystal lens that can be electronically corrected for both internal and external aberrations. Kowel teaches that the refractive index of the liquid crystal device can be controlled to bring entering light to a focus upon exiting the device. It is claimed that the device can be made to exhibit characteristics of both a positive lens and a negative lens. Details of the control approach are not presented, except that a \u201ccontrol means\u201d is used to drive the active optical element, with control signals being developed by \u201ca processor in response to a given program\u201d and \u201cusing well known microprocessor control techniques\u201d. To correct for aberrations, a feedback loop was incorporated to command the liquid crystal lens based on measurements from a photoelectric sensor positioned after the device at its image plane. In contrast, the present invention uses a more efficient measurement of optical power within the fiber to which it is coupled, an adaptive controller is used to maximize power transfer, and a model-based feedback loop is not required, which avoids controller stability issues.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,071,253 by Chase (issued in 1991) teaches a light beam position control system that utilizes Kerr cells and Lummer-Gehrcke plates to produce sets of optical phased linear arrays for beam positioning and beam monitoring. This device is for beam steering only, but illustrates a common shortcoming of prior art, that being an efficient feedback signal for controlling the active device. In a Kerr cell, the index of refraction of a material can be changed by applying an electric field. Chase teaches a light beam control system wherein the angular position of the \u201ccontrolled\u201d beam is monitored by measurement of the angular position of a second beam. The output of the active cells and plates is split into a primary and secondary beam, the secondary beam being interrogated and used to adjust the voltage applied to the active elements to result in precise control of the primary beam. Chase teaches that the controller includes an image analysis means, including a television camera and means for generating first and second control signals, or an optical interface maximum fringe counter and digital counting means for determining monitor (secondary) beam position. Obviously, analysis of the monitor (secondary) beam is complex and no account is given of how angular position of the primary beam can be inferred or is related to analysis of the secondary beam. In contrast, the present invention uses a simpler and more robust approach for adaptively optimizing coupling with the fiber. Optical phased arrays require lower voltage levels than Kerr cells and Lummer-Gehrcke plates, and can be used for focusing a beam.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,233,673 by Vali (issued in 1993) relates to an optical phased array used to steer and focus an optical beam. However, instead of using a linear or planar optical phased array device to focus light energy into a fiber-optic, Vali teaches the use of an array of fiber-optic cables, wherein the relative phases along the optical paths are adjusted so that the light emitted from the fiber-optics is effectively focused. In contrast, the present invention uses an optical phased array device to focus light into a fiber-optic cable.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,128,421 by Roberts relates to beam steering using electro-optic phase modulators, optical phase array emitters, and electronic control circuits. Roberts states that a key problem with prior art approaches to electric beam steering is that control systems have been prohibitively complex. In contrast, the present invention uses a measurement of the optical power transmitted into the fiber to adaptively optimize the focal length and steered angle of the optical phased array. This allows tremendous flexibility, and the controller is able to compensate for dominant sources of wavefront error expected to be encountered during its service life.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,597,836 by Johnson teaches a control system for optical phased arrays that compensates for phase changes due to external perturbations such as vibration and thermal variations, as well as compensating for atmospheric aberrations external to the laser system. Johnson teaches an approach for compensating for wavefront errors as opposed to beam steering and focusing. Johnson uses analysis of the wavefront exiting the active device (that device being an optical phased array or phase modulator) to generate a control signal that is fed back to the active device. Johnson teaches that algorithms which are used in the known art to calculate phase measurements and corrections are computationally intensive, and therefore may not be capable of providing real-time feedback to the phase modulators. Johnson teaches the use of a personal computer or a plurality of personal computers to conduct analysis of the exiting beam to generate the necessary control signal. In contrast, the present invention does not require a measurement of the transmitted wavefront and subsequent analysis, which is prohibitively complex and computationally intensive. It will be shown that by maximizing the optical power transmitted into the fiber-optic, one is inherently compensating for the dominant modes of wavefront error, those being spherical aberration, tip, and tilt errors. Further, we avoid control stability issues by not using a feedback controller. Instead, an adaptive controller is used to make adjustments to the optical phased array in a feed-forward control architecture. This precludes the need to have an accurate system model for controller synthesis and allows for time-varying system dynamics.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,079,203 by Huang teaches an electronically tunable micro-lens device that uses an inhomogeneous, concentrated, polymer network with nemantic liquid crystal. Huang asserts that micro-lenses are one of the most important components in the micro-optics field for optical fiber coupling. Huang teaches a gradient-index liquid crystal lens with a tunable focal length and low voltage requirements. The device is polarization independent, and capable of being used as either a positive or negative lens. Huang suggests implementation of the device in applications spanning optical communications, fiber-optic coupling, adaptive optics, wavefront error correction, and electronic beam steering, although no discussion of practical implementation or limitations is presented. U.S. Pat. No. 7,327,434 by Ren also teaches an electronically tunable lens device that uses uneven, homogenous liquid crystal droplets. Ren teaches a gradient-index liquid crystal lens with a tunable focal length, independent of polarization, and capable of being used as either a positive or negative lens. Such devices as taught by Huang and Ren are directly applicable to optical phased arrays that can be used for wavefront correction, beam steering, and adaptive lensing. These inventions are cited to demonstrate the progressing state-of-the-art in optical phased array devices. It is possible to achieve polarization-independent, variable focusing, and precision beam steering devices. There is clearly a need for an improved method of using such devices to optimize coupling of optical energy into an optical fiber, one that uses a simple and efficient adaptive control approach.","The invention presents an approach and apparatus to improve coupling efficiency between a collimated, free-space, optical signal and a single-mode, optical fiber. An active optical element, such as a liquid crystal optical phased array, is used to steer and focus the collimated beam onto the optical fiber. An adaptive control loop is implemented to maintain optimal pointing and focusing. The controller only requires a relatively straightforward measurement of optical power. The controller corrects for low-order wavefront error (focus, tip, and tilt) in the collimated beam without computationally intensive analysis of wavefront sensor measurements. The control approach is relatively simple to implement and is robust to changes in system dynamics over time and operation.","Introduction","Successful reception of photonic signals (i.e., laser light) over a free-space optical communications link depends on many factors, and the coupling of the free-space optical beam into a fiber-optic waveguide is particularly significant. Coupling refers to the transfer of photonic energy from one medium into another, such as from a free-space propagating laser beam into a fiber-optic waveguide used to transport the photonic signal to its destination. An inefficient or ineffective coupling mechanism can result in data-loss and reduced data transfer rates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["101","100","102","104","103"]},"There are several phenomena that can reduce coupling efficiency, such as beam-walk, exceeding the maximum acceptance angle, and wavefront error. The performance of the optical transducer can be significantly reduced if these effects are not mitigated. For optimal coupling, it is necessary that the light beam be steered onto the center of the fiber-optic waveguide core. Beam-walk occurs if the transmitted beam moves about the center of the fiber core. If the center of the transmitted beam moves away from the center of the fiber core, some of the energy in the beam may be lost into the cladding, or simply not transmitted into the fiber core. Beam-walk can result from vibration or strain resulting from mechanical or thermal stresses in the terminal over time.","The conical angle of the incident light should be less than the maximum acceptance angle of the fiber-optic; else photonic energy will be lost into the core cladding. The maximum acceptance angle of a fiber-optic is defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","max"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"sin","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msqrt":{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["n","cr"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":["n","cl"],"mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}},"msub":{"mi":["n","i"]}}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["cr ","cl ","i "],"b":["200","201"],"figref":"FIG. 2"},"Wavefront error can reduce coupling with the fiber-optic waveguide as a result of focusing error or beam steering effects. Wavefront error is defined as deviation in the wavefront of the traveling light wave from the ideal or desired wavefront. Wavefront error can result from scintillation in the media through which the photonic signal propagates, or can originate at the transmission source. Even if the collected light beam has no wavefront error, imperfections in the beam train (i.e., optical elements) preceding the fiber-optic can introduce aberrations that create wavefront error. This is illustrated in . In , a collimated beam  is incident on a focusing optic . A light beam  is collimated if the light rays travel parallel to one another and with a planar wavefront , that is perpendicular to the direction of travel. The focusing optic  focuses the collimated beam onto the fiber-optic waveguide . Ideally, the transmitted light would have spherical wavefronts  that converge to a single focal point. However, in , the focusing optic has introduced some aberration. At a fixed radial distance from the desired focal point, the transmitted wavefront  (indicated with a solid line) is not spherical as desired, but instead varies with respect to a spherical wavefront  (indicated with a dashed line). This is wavefront error, and results in imperfect focusing. To prevent this, optics in the beam train  and  must be precisely manufactured, and alignment of the beam train optics ( and ) must be carefully controlled. Temperature variations can create thermal gradients along the beam train that result in stresses, which can induce strain-displacements. Such displacements can create non-uniform changes in the optical path length, which also produce focusing and wavefront errors.","Theory","Phase Delay in an Active Optical Device. For light, the optical path length (OPL) is the product of the distance traveled, d, and the index of refraction, n, of the medium through which it has traveled. This is expressed as:\n\nOPL=nd.\u2003\u2003(2)\n","The index of refraction through an active optical device can be varied by applying a voltage difference across the front and back planes of the device. The voltage induces a localized change in the index of refraction of the material contained within the device. An increase in the optical path length in one part of the device relative to the optical path length in an adjoining part of the device results in a \u201cphase difference\u201d between the wavefront of the light passing through different parts of the device.","To illustrate, consider the two-element planar device shown in . One element  has index of refraction, n, the other  has index of refraction, n, and each have thickness, d. The difference in the optical path lengths can be expressed as:\n\n\u0394OPL=().\u2003\u2003(3)\n","Multiplying by the wavenumber, k=2\u03c0\/\u03bb (where \u03bb is the wavelength), the phase difference (in radians) can be computed:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394\u03d5","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","d"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"\u03bb"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mn":"2"},{"mi":"n","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"An Optical Phase Array. By adding a series of finely spaced, transparent, conducting electrodes to both the front and back planes as shown in , and then applying a controlled spatial distribution of electrode voltages, a varying phase delay \u201cprofile\u201d can be generated across the device. For simplicity  presents a rectangular aperture  with electrode  and  in a single direction (horizontal). In practice, these devices can have circular apertures, and a second layer of electrodes can be incorporated to facilitate beam steering or focusing in two dimensions (i.e., both horizontally and vertically). Alternatively, a second, cascaded, device rotated 90 degrees can be used to facilitate beam steering or focusing in two dimensions.","The device shown in  performs as a one-dimensional array of \u201csecondary\u201d emitters of electromagnetic waves in accordance with the Huygens-Fresnel theory (the Huygens-Fresnel theory suggests that every unobstructed point of a wavefront serves as a source for secondary spherical wavelets). As such, it can be modeled as a one-dimensional array of emitters as shown in . If the secondary emitters  radiate in-phase (i.e., coherently), then incident electromagnetic waves  will be re-radiated as shown  and constructively interfere with each other in the far-field (i.e., at a large distance from the array). This is an optical phased array. The intensity distribution within the diffraction pattern due to N coherent, identical, distant point sources in a linear array (as shown in ) is given by the expression:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03b4"}},{"msub":{"mi":"I","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"sin","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["N","\u03b4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"msup":{"mi":"sin","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03b4","mn":"2"}}}]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":"0 ","b":["702","700"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"kd ","figref":"FIG. 8","sup":"\u22121"},"Beam Steering with an Optical Phased Array. An optical phase array can also be modeled as an array of phase shifters, each phase shifter having width d, and a center-to-center distance between shifters of d (for simplicity) as shown in . If d<\u03bb, then only one principal maximum will result from the device. Let the phase shifters  be numbered as i=1, 2, 3, . . . , N. A linear phase profile can be defined across the array so that the phase added by each array element, i, is given as:\n\n\u03a6()=(1)*\u03c6,\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nwhere \u03a6 is a constant phase shift in radians (this is defined so that there is no phase shift added at the first array element, i=1, for positive steering angles). Consequently, the expression for \u03b4 in Equation (6) becomes:\n\n\u03b4(\u03b8)=sin(\u03b8)+\u03c6.\u2003\u2003(8)\n","Therefore, to steer the main-beam of the phased array to a desired angle, \u03c8, from bore-sight, it can be shown by simple geometry that:\n\n\u03c6=sin(\u03c8).\u2003\u2003(9)\n","The normalized intensity distribution as a function of \u03b8 for N=10,000 and \u03c8=0.04 degrees is presented in  (k=4.2e6 m; d=1e-6 m).  shows that, indeed, the main-beam is steered to \u03c8=0.04 degrees as desired.","This method of beam steering by phase shifting can be used to compensate for undesired tip or tilt of the incident wavefront. Consider for instance that the incident wavefront, , has some tilt error that results in an incident angle \u03b8=0.04 degrees as depicted in . Suppose that it is desired to point the transmitted beam to \u03c8=0.0 degrees. For a 1-cm device with k=4.2e6 mand d=1e-6 m, the necessary phase delay is: \u03a6=0.003 radians (using Equation (9)). The resulting phase profile across the device is shown in . The phase delay from i=1 to i=2 is 0.003 radians, which is a small fraction of a wavelength (0.04%). At element i=3, the added phase would be 0.006 radians. As shown in , the phase increases at a linear rate across the phased array (to nearly 30 radians) (dashed line). Since phase angle is circular, it repeats itself every 2\u03c0 radians. Thus, it is equivalent to command the phase shifter to provide 0.003 radians, 0.003*(2\u03c0) radians, or 0.003 times any integer multiple of 2\u03c0. Consequently, one can compute the modulus between the phase angle and 2\u03c0, and let that be the commanded phase delay. This results in the \u201csaw-tooth\u201d type phase profile shown in  with the solid line. In summary, with no phase delay provided by the device, the transmitted light beam will be at an angle equal to the incident angle. However, with an applied phase delay as shown in , the transmitted beam will be steered to 0 degrees, effectively compensating for the incident beam tilt.","Lensing with an Optical Phased Array. The optical phased array can be used to provide lensing (i.e., beam focusing) in much the same method that beam steering was accomplished. For lensing, the optical phased array directs the transmitted beam so as to form a common focus point. Optical phased arrays have been used to generate both positive (real focus) and negative (virtual focus) lenses. This can be realized (to a first approximation) by considering the optical phased array as two devices, the first consisting of elements i=1, 2, . . . , N\/2 and having a first phase profile, and the second consisting of elements i=(N\/2)+1, . . . N and having a second, symmetric phase profile, each steering to a common point. Consider, for example, a one-dimensional optical phased array with length 1.0 cm separation between electrodes (i.e., phase shifter centers) of d=1e-6 m, and operating at a wavelength of \u03bb=1.5e-6 m.  presents the computed phase profile across such device to result in a focus at 1 meter from the device (positive lens). The profile is symmetric about the center of the array. The phase profile modulus 2\u03c0 is given in . As noted, this is a first-order approximation to the necessary phase profile, but is sufficient to demonstrate the concept. For a real device, the phase delay would vary radially from the center of the device in a nonlinear fashion.","If the phase profile for lensing is denoted as \u03a6(i), and the phase profile for steering is denoted as \u03a6(i), the two can be superimposed to steer the position of the focal point:\n\n\u03a6()=\u03a6()+\u03a6().\u2003\u2003(10)\n","Adaptive Control of the Optical Phase Array. The objective of this invention is to couple optical energy into a fiber-optic waveguide as shown in .  presents a one-dimensional model of an optical phased array  having only one dimension, that being length. The device spans from \u2212y to +y, a total length of 2y.  depicts collimated light rays  incident on the optical phased array, then being focused into a fiber-optic . The electronics used to operate the device and generate the necessary phase profile and electrode voltages is represented in  as \u201cPhased Array Controller\u201d. Control of an optical phased array is typically accomplished using an application specific integrated circuit. The example depicted in  is an open-loop system, which means that there is no means for establishing a feedback controller or adapting the optical phased array for variations in system configuration, operation, or performance. The present invention, illustrated in , proposes to implement a power sensor  and adaptive controller  to monitor the system for changes in performance and adjust the operation of the optical phased array through the phased array controller  to maintain optimal coupling. This process will be referred to as auto-calibration.","The adaptive controller  adjusts three parameters that determine the phase profile of the optical phased array: 1) focal length, f; 2) azimuth steering angle, \u03b1; and 3) elevation steering angle, \u03b5. It is desired to maximize the overall coupling efficiency, which can be defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["P","fiber"]},{"mi":"P","mrow":{"mi":["free","space"],"mo":"-"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["fiber ","free-space "]},"From Equation (11), it is clear that maximizing Pimplicitly maximizes \u03b6. The performance metric for the controller is defined to be the overall coupling efficiency, \u03b6, however, the sensed variable used by the adaptive algorithm will be P.  presents an approximation to the functional relationship between overall efficiency, changes in focal length, and steering angle for a nominal system design. Only one steering angle is presented due to the limitation of a three dimensional plot. At the optimal design point, the efficiency in this example is about 0.8 and rolls off with increasing deviation.","In practice, the system starts at a default design point, having some initial value for f, \u03b1, and \u03b5. In the preferred embodiment, the adaptive controller periodically executes an auto-calibration cycle to adjust these parameters to the optimum design point, f*, \u03b1*, and \u03b5*. Alternatively, the calibration cycle can be initiated if the measured performance drops below some threshold value.","The adaptive controller uses a gradient search, maximization algorithm, which is relatively simple and robust to implement. To explain the control algorithm, let the sampled performance metric be denoted as J, which is a discrete-time measurements of P, with the subscript k corresponding to the discrete-time index, not wavenumber. The performance metric will have the concave shape as the efficiency plotted in . At time index k, the current values of the three parameters will be denoted as: f, \u03b1, and \u03b5. The adaptive controller first computes a numerical approximation to the first derivative (i.e., the gradient) of the performance metric with respect to each parameter. This can be accomplished by a variety of numerical techniques, such as the forward difference method:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"f"}]},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","f"]}}}}},{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["f","k"]}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","f"]}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03b1"}]},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","\u03b1"]}}}}},{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","\u03b1"]}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u025b"}]},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","\u025b"]}}}}},{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","k"]}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["h","\u025b"]}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["f","\u03b1","\u03b5"]},"Once the gradient is computed, the parameters are then incrementally updated in the direction of the gradient for as long as the performance metric is improved, that is: J>J. This can be expressed as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"f"}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u03b1"}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","k"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"\u025b"}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 18"},"Noise in the measured data can prevent accurate estimation of the performance metric and gradients. Therefore, systems with sensor noise must use time-averaging (i.e., averaging over many samples) to reduce the effects of sensor noise. Furthermore, additional steps must be included in the process depicted in . After apparent convergence in a computed gradient direction, the gradient must be recomputed. If the gradient is sufficiently small, which indicates convergence, the system is considered converged, and the calibration cycle is complete. Else, the parameters are incrementally updated along the new gradient direction.","Control Simulation 1. To illustrate, consider the simple system with the performance function shown in  and optimal design point of f*=6.5 mm, \u03b1*=0.0\u00b0, and \u03b5*=0.0\u00b0, which corresponds to an efficiency of 0.8. A sample rate of 10 kHz was assumed for this example to provide a time-line for the simulation. Now assume this system is subjected to an external disturbance that changes the optimal focal length by \u0394f=0.003 mm, and the optimal azimuth steering angle by \u0394\u03b1=0.002\u00b0. The gradient was computed and the parameters, f, \u03b1, and \u03b5, were adapted to re-converge to the optimal design point as shown in . Essentially, the system adapted to compensate for the disturbance. In this example, only 13 iterations were required to adapt from an efficiency of 0.58 to 0.7911 (\u0394f\u21922.2e-5 mm and \u0394\u03b1\u2192\u22121.4e-5\u00b0). Since \u03b5 was not perturbed in this example, the gradient about \u03b5was effectively zero, and therefore no changes were made to that parameter. No sensor noise was included in this example.","Wavefront Error Compensation. This example shows that the adaptive controller can adjust the parameters of the optical phased array to compensate for deviation in the operating parameters from the optimal design point, particularly the focal length and steering angle. Research in optical phased arrays has revealed that such devices are suitable for correcting optical aberrations that can be expressed using low-order Zernike polynomials. Zernike polynomials are an orthogonal set of basis functions that can be used to describe some optical aberrations. Zernike polynomials are nonlinear functions of the aperture radius and rotation angle about the aperture cross-section. The wavefront can be expressed as a weighted summation of the Zernike polynomial terms:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"WFE","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"M"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","m"]},{"mi":["z","m"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"m "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Zernike polynomials often used to describe optical aberrations"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Zernike","Polynomial","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"z","1","Piston"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1cos(\u03b8)","Tilt X (tip)"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1sin(\u03b8)","Tilt Y (tilt)"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u22121 + 2\u03c1","Power (focus)"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1cos(2\u03b8)","Astigmatism X"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1sin(2\u03b8)","Astigmatism Y"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1(\u22122 + 3\u03c1)cos(\u03b8)","Coma X"]},{"entry":[{},"z","\u03c1(\u22122 + 3\u03c1)sin(\u03b8)","Coma Y"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Control Simulation 2. Consider the following simulation, which uses the same performance metric used in the previous example. This simulation included sensor noise (zero-mean, standard deviation of unity), which was added to the measurement of P. The quantity of added noise was defined in terms of the signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio, which was defined as the ratio of Pto the power of the added noise, P, in terms of decibels. This is expressed as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["S","N","R"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]},{"mn":"10","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"10"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["P","fiber"]},{"mi":["P","noise"]}]}}},"mo":"."}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]}}}}},"As a consequence of the added noise, the estimate of the performance function for a given parameter set, J, must be computed as the time-average of many measurements:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["J","k"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"M"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"M"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["J","m"]},{"mi":["\u03c5","m"]}],"mo":"+"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"20"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"m "},"Initially, the simulation started with no errors, yielding an efficiency of 0.8. At 100 ms, tip error (Zernike polynomial z) was introduced that resulted in 0.002 degrees of elevation error. The effect on efficiency can be seen in the time history given in . At 200 ms, a second tilt error (Zernike polynomial z) was introduced that resulted in 0.003 degrees of azimuth error. At 300 ms, a focus (or \u201cpower\u201d) error (Zernike polynomial z) was introduced that resulted in a change from the optimal focal length of \u22120.0015 mm. At 400 ms, a calibration cycle was initiated. In this simulation, the system re-converged by 1000 ms. Convergence was slowed by the added sensor noise.","This simulation suggests that the adaptive controller can adapt the phase profile of the optical phased array to correct for physical perturbations of the system (as seen in the first simulation) and correct for aberrations in the wavefront (as seen in the second simulation). Compensating for wavefront error did not require imaging or image analysis. Convergence rates were dependent upon the signal-to-noise ratio. No system models were required, and neither was there an explicit feedback loop.","In summary, the system is able to periodically optimize alignment and focus of the free-space optical signal into the fiber core using only a measure of transmitted power in the fiber. The adaptive controller does not require a model-based feedback controller, so it is easier to implement and more robust than the prior art. The adaptive controller compensates for time varying changes in the physical system that might result from mechanical stress, thermal stress, and vibration. The system can also compensate for wavefront errors that can be represented by low-order Zernike polynomials, which typically are the most significant factors in wavefront error. The wavefront compensation is accomplished without analysis of the transmitted wavefront; it is implicitly accomplished by maximization of power transmission.","A liquid crystal optical phased array is only one choice for the active optical element. Other types of devices may be used that comprise different materials. The system may or may not match the maximum acceptance angle defined by the single mode fiber which is believed to be the optimum embodiment. The system may be used for either space-based laser communication satellites, or terrestrial data transfer applications, although autonomous \u201cself-calibration\u201d would be more valuable for an on-orbit system, which cannot be manually corrected. As such, it would justify the additional cost and complexity of a self-calibrating, active optical system. For a space system, the lasercom terminal, optical elements, and fiber optic waveguides would be fabricated from space flight qualified materials, which may require an alternative active material instead of liquid crystal."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12","sub":"inc"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
