---
title: Use of current channeling in multiple node laser systems and methods thereof
abstract: Current channels, blocking areas, or strips in a semiconductor laser are used to channel injected current into the antinodal region of the optical standing wave present in the optical cavity, while restricting the current flow to the nodal regions. Previous devices injected current into both the nodal and antinodal regions of the wave, which is fed by the population inversion created in the active region by the injected electrons and holes, but inversion created in the nodal regions is lost to fluorescence or supports the creation of undesirable competing longitudinal modes, causing inefficiency. Directing current to the antinodal regions where the electric field is at its maximum causes a selected longitudinal mode to preferentially oscillate regardless of where the longitudinal mode lies with respect to the gain curve. In one embodiment, exacting fabrication of the Fabry-Perot cavity correlates the current channels to antinodal regions, vis-a vis current blocking areas, strips or segmented layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07646797&OS=07646797&RS=07646797
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07646797
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080723
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government.","The present disclosure relates generally to optics and, more particularly, to semiconductor lasers.","The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for manufacturing a semiconductor laser device which can be used in an optical communication system, telecommunications, CD % DVD data storage and players, diode pumped solid state lasers. The present invention is particularly useful in applications where high power\/efficiency and wavelength stability are at a premium.","The typical laser comprises a gain medium positioned within a highly reflective optical cavity and a power source which supplies energy to the gain medium. The process of supplying the energy required for the amplification is called pumping. The pumping energy is typically supplied as an electrical current to the gain medium. Light is amplified by stimulated emission due to the properties of the gain medium. An optical cavity generally comprises two reflective surfaces (or mirrors) arranged such that light bounces back and forth repeatedly through the gain medium. Typically the output reflective surface is partially transparent, through which light is emitted. The other reflective surface may also be partially reflective and used in conjunction with feedback circuitry. During laser operation, light of a specific wavelength passes through the gain medium and is amplified repeatedly. A portion of the light passes through the partially transparent reflective surface and is outputted as a beam of light.","The present invention relates to laser diodes where the gain (or active) medium is a semiconductor formed from a p-n junction and powered by injected electrical current, which provides the stimulated emission. Semiconductor lasers include an active or gain layer or region by which a standing optical wave is created responsive to current flow. In a typical double heterostructure laser diode, the active layer is of low band gap material that is sandwiched between two high band gap layers. In such a laser diode, an optical waveguide is produced such that the light is confined to a relatively narrow line. The two ends are cleaved to form perfectly smooth, parallel edges, forming a Fabry-Perot resonator. Photons emitted into a mode of the waveguide will travel along the waveguide and be reflected several times from each end face before they are emitted.","Generally, the wavelength of light emitted from a semiconductor laser is a function of the band-gap of the semiconductor and the modes of the optical cavity. For example, the band-gap wavelength for InGaAsP may be on the order of approximately 1.0 to 1.115 \u03bcm, depending upon the configuration of the laser. In general, the maximum gain will occur for photons with energy slightly above the band-gap energy, and the modes nearest the gain peak will lase most strongly. If the diode is driven strongly enough, additional side modes may also lase. For example, if the oscillation wavelength is from 1100 nm to 1550 nm (or on the order of 10meters), and the length of the resonator is L, the mode interval \u0394\u03bb of the longitudinal mode generated by the resonator of the semiconductor laser device can be expressed by the following equation, where refractive index is \u201c\u2033n.\u201d\n\n\u0394\u03bb=\u03bb\/(2 nL).\n","As the length of the resonator increases, the mode interval \u0394\u03bb of the longitudinal mode becomes narrower, and the selection condition(s) of the emitting the laser beam of a single longitudinal mode are more exacting. For example, U.S. Patent Application No. 2003\/0091300 A1, hereby incorporated by reference, discloses a profile for a semiconductor laser device with a single longitudinal mode.","Some laser diodes, such as most visible lasers, operate at a single wavelength, but that wavelength is unstable and changes due to fluctuations in current or temperature. The present invention provides a more stable device that will permit less wavelength drift due to fluctuations in temperature.","Normally, a current (known as \u201cinjected current\u201d) flows into both the nodal and anti-nodal regions of the standing optical wave. The direction of current flow is perpendicular to optical cavity axis. The standing optical wave is fed by the population inversion created in the gain or active region by the electrons and holes provided by the injected current. The standing optical wave depletes the inversion in the anti-nodal regions in which the optical electric field is at its maximum. The inversion created in the nodal regions, however is lost to fluorescence and\/or supports the creation of competing longitudinal modes, thereby resulting in lower efficiency and reduced stability.","Systems and methods for emitting laser radiation are provided. The invention involves the use of current channels, or blocking areas, strips or layers in a semiconductor laser to channel the injected current into the antinode region of the optical standing wave present in the optical cavity, while restricting the current flow to the nodal regions. Normally, the injected current flows into both the node (or nodal) and antinode (or antinodal) regions of the optical standing wave. The optical standing wave is fed by the population inversion created in the active region by the injected electrons and holes. The standing optical wave depletes the inversion in the antinodal regions where the electric field is at its maximum, but the inversion created in the nodal regions is lost to fluorescence or supports the creation of undesirable competing longitudinal modes. This invention increases the efficiency of the device, and causes a selected longitudinal mode to preferentially oscillate regardless of where the longitudinal mode lies with respect to the gain curve. In one embodiment of the present invention, the semiconductor laser is fabricated with exacting fabrication of the Fabry-Perot cavity so that the nodes and antinodes are properly positioned with respect to the current channels, vis-a vis the current blocking areas, strips or segmented layers. There may be on the order of one thousand nodes (e.g., 500-1500) produced vis-a vis the on the order of one thousand pairs of current blocking areas, strips or segmented layer portions so that the nodes and antinodes are properly positioned with respect to the current channels in an embodiment of the present invention. This new method of semiconductor laser is applicable to, but not limited to, the GaAlAs, AlGaInP, AlGaAsP, and InGaN diode laser material systems. In one embodiment, a p-type electrode provides an ohmic contact to the p side of the device, followed by a p-GaAs cap layer that surrounds the p-AlGaAs cladding layer. This layer forms part of the optical index waveguide that contains the laser radiation. One primary feature of this embodiment of the present invention is the placement of the n-GaAs current blocking layers (above the active layer) and p-GaAs current blocking layer (below the active layer), which may be strips, areas, or segmented layers that provide the current channeling. An AlGaAs active layer is where the stimulated recombination takes place. Lowering of the refractive index relative to the active region of the laser produces improved light confinement; i.e., restricts laser light to the active region more effectively. A standing optical wave is formed in the space between the ends of the device, which act as partially reflecting mirrors. An n-AlGaAs cladding layer provides an optical index waveguide with the p-side cladding layer. The n-GaAs buffer layer provides a transition to the n-GaAs substrate. An n-type electrode provides the device with an ohmic contact of the n-side of the device. Laser radiation is emitted from both ends of the device that act as mirrors, but generally the emission from one end is used, while the output from the opposite end is used for feedback control of the device. In one embodiment, the entire device may be approximately 0.5 mm in length and 0.25 mm in height and width. The current blocking layers are composed of highly doped p-type material on the n-side, and heavily doped n-type material on the p-side. The choice of blocking material may be varied with materials appropriate to the particular laser materials system being used. The materials used and the thickness of the layers will vary from material system to material system, but the current channeling concept can be used in all material systems. This invention has an advantage over presently known devices in that the quantum efficiency will be increased, as less current will be wasted as fluorescence. This invention also has the advantage of locking in a single pre-chosen longitudinal mode that will remain relatively fixed in wavelength with temperature. This invention fully optimizes the performance of a semiconductor laser, producing maximum quantum efficiency. It also solves the problem of wavelength drift with temperature. This invention will be useful in any application where semiconductor lasers are used, i.e., CD\/DVD data storage, Diode-Pumped Solid State Lasers, telecommunications. This invention will be particularly useful for applications where high power\/efficiency and wavelength stability is at a premium. The following features of this invention are believed to be novel: use of current channeling to increase efficiency, and the use of current channeling to lock in a single longitudinal mode","An embodiment of a system for emitting laser radiation includes a first cladding layer, a second cladding layer, a first plurality of strips, a second plurality of strips, and an active layer. The first plurality of strips have a different level of conductivity than the first cladding layer. The second plurality of strips have a different level of conductivity than the second cladding layer. The active layer is located between the first and second cladding layers and between the first and second pluralities of strips. The active layer is configured to produce an optical wave having a plurality of nodes. Each of the plurality of nodes is located between a corresponding one of the first plurality of strips and a corresponding one of the second plurality of strips. Current channels exist between the strips which are necessarily small, and equal to \u03bb\/2n, where \u03bb is the wavelength, and n is the refractive index of the active layer. The number of nodes in the device will also be large, on the order of 1000. The fabrication of the present invention requires additional patterning steps to produce the channels, and requires fabrication of the Fabry-Perot cavity so that the nodes and antinodes are properly positioned with respect to the current channels.","An embodiment of a method for emitting laser radiation includes injecting a current into a laser, generating an optical wave in the laser, and restricting current flow to the nodal regions of the optical wave such that the current is channeled to the non-nodal regions of the optical wave.","Systems and methods for emitting laser radiation are provided. In this regard, an embodiment of such a system provides current blocking strips or layers in a semiconductor laser to channel the injected current into the anti-nodal regions of the standing optical wave generated by the active region of a homogeneously broadened semiconductor laser material. Such an embodiment can potentially increase efficiency, and cause a selected longitudinal mode to preferentially oscillate regardless of where the longitudinal mode lies with respect to the gain curve. This results in a more stable system that permits less wavelength drift with temperature.","By way of background, photon-emitting semiconductor lasers use of a type of semiconductor whose physical and atomic structure confers the possibility for photon emission. These photon-emitting semiconductors are the so-called \u201cdirect bandgap\u201d semiconductors. The so-called compound semiconductors, which have virtually the identical crystal structure as silicon or germanium but use alternating arrangements of two different atomic species in a checkerboard-like pattern that break the symmetry and in doing so create the critical direct bandgap. Examples of compound semiconductors that are adapted to be used with the present invention are gallium arsenide, indium phosphide, gallium antimonide, gallium nitride and so forth, and junction diodes fabricated from these materials emit light.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","100","100","101","104","103","102","105","102","101","105","104","103","101","104"]},"The current blocking strips  and  are configured to restrict the current  from flowing through areas of the material located between opposing pairs of current blocking strips  and . In particular, the current blocking strips exhibit lower electrical conductivity (i.e., higher resistance) than that of the material surrounding the current blocking strips. As a result, the current  is channeled through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips  and through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips . This is because Ohm's law dictates that more current will flow along a path of lower resistance than along an alternative path of higher resistance.","In one embodiment, the distance between the centers of adjacent gaps  (and between the centers of adjacent gaps ) is substantially equal to \u03bb\/2n, where n is the refractive index of the active layer , and \u03bb is the wavelength of the standing optical waves that the laser system  is configured to create. Similarly, the distance between the centers of adjacent current blocking strips  (and adjacent current blocking strips ) (excluding the narrower current blocking strips  and  at the ends of the laser system, which are included to provide regions for accommodating a node at the end facet of the laser) is substantially equal to \u03bb\/2n. This restricts the current from flowing through the nodal regions of the standing optical waves since the nodal regions are located between respective opposing current strips  and . The width of each of the gaps  and  is preferably less than \u03bb\/4n. This enables the current flowing through the active layer  to be concentrated in the anti-nodal regions of the standing optical waves since the anti-nodal regions are located between respective opposing gaps  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["200","200","200","201","204","203","202","205","202","201","205","204"]},"The active layer  is located between the cladding layers  and  as well as between the current blocking strips  and . Having the current blocking strips  and  located closer to the active layer  reduces the extent of diffusion of the current  in a direction that is perpendicular to its general direction of current flow as the current propagates through the layers of the laser system .","The current blocking strips  and  are configured to restrict the current  from flowing through areas located between opposing pairs of the current blocking strips  and . As a result, the current  is channeled through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips  and through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips . In one embodiment, the width of each of the gaps  and  is equal or less than \u03bb\/4n, whereas the distance between the centers of adjacent gaps  and  is substantially equal to \u03bb\/2n. For example, if n is equal to 3.5, and the oscillation wavelength is from 1100 nm to 1550 nm, the width of the gaps or channels will be on the order of 153.14 to 214.285 nm, or less.","The gaps or channels will be substantially equal to number of nodal or anti-nodal regions in the system and may be relatively large, on the order of, for example, hundreds or thousands of nodes. High precision fabrication of the Fabry-Perot cavity helps the current blocking strips (and the current channels) to be properly positioned with respect to the nodes and anti-nodes to facilitate the production of a single longitudinal wave.","An advantage of this embodiment is increased quantum efficiency as less current is wasted through fluorescence. Another advantage is that it enables locking into a single pre-chosen longitudinal mode that will experience relatively little shift in wavelength responsive to changes in temperature. The current blocking strips also may act as a distributed feedback (DFB) structure that causes a preferred longitudinal mode to oscillate. This embodiment may be useful in many applications where semiconductor lasers are used including, for example, compact disc (CD) and digital video decoder (DVD) data storage functionality, diode-pumped solid state lasers, and optics based telecommunications. This embodiment may be particularly useful for applications where high power, high efficiency, and\/or wavelength stability is desired.","This embodiment is applicable to, but not limited to, the laser material systems of AlGaAs (gallium aluminum arsenide), (AlGa)InP (aluminum gallium indium phosphide), (AlGa)AsP (aluminum gallium arsenide phosphide), (InGa)AsP (indium gallium arsenide phosphide) and AlGaInN(aluminum indium gallium nitride) diode laser material systems. An example of the specific materials used in some embodiments of a GaAlAs laser system is illustrated in Table 1 below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Materials Used In An Embodiment of A Laser System"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Component","Material"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["First electrode","n-type conducting material"]},{"entry":[{},"(e.g., gold)"]},{"entry":["Substrate","n-GaAs (n-type gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Buffer layer","n-GaAs (n-type gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["First cladding layer","n-AlGaAs (n-type aluminum"]},{"entry":[{},"allium arsenide)"]},{"entry":["First plurality of current blocking strips","p-GaAs (p-type gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Active layer","AlGaAs (aluminum gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Second cladding layer","p-AlGaAs (p-type aluminum"]},{"entry":[{},"gallium arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Second lurality of current blocking strips","n-GaAs (n-type gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Cap layer","p-GaAs (p-type gallium"]},{"entry":[{},"arsenide)"]},{"entry":["Second electrode","p-type conducting material"]},{"entry":[{},"(e.g., gold)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The materials used for each of the system components in  may be for example, as listed in Table 1, among other possible materials, depending on a desired implementation. However, the embodiments described herein are not limited to the materials listed in Table 1, as different lasers may use different sets of materials. For example, in an AlGaInN. (Aluminum Indium Gallium Nitride) system, the blocking strips may comprise n-GaN (n-type gallium nitride) on the p-side, and p-GaN (p-type gallium nitride) on the n-side. The current blocking strips will preferably include at least one of the elements (e.g., gallium) found in the corresponding cladding layer, and will have an opposite type (e.g., p-type vs. n-type) as the cladding layer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["310","310","311","312","311","312","312"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["320","320","321","322","321","322","312","320","323","321","323","321"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3C","b":["330","330","331","332","331","332","312","330","330","333","321","331"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["400","400","401","404","403","402","405","411","412","413","414","415"]},"The current blocking strips  are located within the cladding layer , whereas the current blocking strips  are located within the cladding layer . The active layer  is located between the cladding layers  and . The substrate  is located between the n-type electrode  and the buffer layer . The buffer layer  is located between the first cladding layer  and the substrate . The cap layer  is located between the second cladding layer  and the p-type electrode . The laser system  is configured such that a current flows from the p-type electrode  to the n-type electrode . The materials used for each of the system components may be, for example, as listed in Table 1, among other possible materials, depending on a desired implementation.","The current blocking strips  and  are configured to restrict the current  from flowing through an area directly between opposing current blocking strips  and . As a result, the current  is channeled through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips  and through gaps  located between adjacent current blocking strips . In one embodiment, the width of each of the gaps  and  is less than \u03bb\/4n, whereas the distance between the centers of adjacent gaps  and  is substantially equal to \u03bb\/2n.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["440","440","441","444","443","442","445","451","452","453","454","455"]},"The substrate  is located between the n-type electrode  and the buffer layer . The buffer layer  is located between the first cladding layer  and the substrate . The cap layer  is located between the second cladding layer  and the p-type electrode . The laser system  is configured such that a current flows from the p-type electrode  to the n-type electrode .","The current blocking strips  are located within an upper portion of the cladding layer , whereas the current blocking strips  are located within a lower portion of the cladding layer . The active layer  is located between the cladding layers  and  as well as between the current blocking strips  and . Having the current blocking strips  and  located closer to the active layer  reduces the extent of diffusion (not shown in ) of the current  in a direction that is perpendicular to the general direction of current flow as the current propagates through the layers of the laser system . In one embodiment, the width of each of the gaps  and  is less than \u03bb\/4n, whereas the distance between the centers of adjacent gaps  and  is substantially equal to \u03bb\/2n.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["516","519","501","502","512","515","512","515","503","501","502","516","519","504","501","502","515"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","601","607","600","601","600","602","603","604","605","606","607"]},"An embodiment of a laser system may be constructed by a variety of techniques including, but not necessarily limited to, MBE (Molecular Beam Epitaxy), MOCVD (Metal-Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition), MOMBE (Metal-Organic Molecular Beam Epitaxy), ALE (Atomic Layer Epitaxy), or VPE (Vapor Phase Epitaxy). The current blocking strips (or layers) can be formed by a method such as, but not limited to, ion beam implantation or any method that is capable of producing high-resistivity areas at submicron resolution in the manner(s) disclosed herein. The normal growth process may be interrupted to form the high resistivity areas (e.g., the current blocking strips).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","701","702","703","704","705"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","801","802","803","804","805","806","807","808","809"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","100","901","902","903"]},"It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments are merely possible examples, among others, of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments without departing from the scope of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 6-8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
