---
title: Method, system, and program product for accessing required software to process a file
abstract: A system, method, and program product for accessing or retrieving on a computer network the required software to process a file is disclosed. It is determined, when accessing a file, whether or not software required to process this file is already installed on the user's computing device, depending upon the type of the file. If the required software is not installed on the user's device, the address of a server from which this software can be downloaded or accessed through the network is extracted and decoded from the filename of the accessed file. A browser or file transfer program is launched on the user's computing device and a request for the required software package is sent from the user's computing device to the server corresponding to the decoded address from which it is downloaded or accessed. The software is then unpacked, if necessary, and installed so as to process the accessed file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060485&OS=08060485&RS=08060485
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08060485
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a divisional of prior application Ser. No. 10\/957,256, which was originally filed on Oct. 1, 2004.","The present invention relates generally to network computing and to software accessed on demand in computer networks, and more specifically to a method and system for locating and accessing the software to process a file.","The use of global distribution systems such as the Internet for distribution of digital assets like electronic documents, music, film, pictures, games and other content continues to grow. Digital assets are commonly distributed or accessed through networks as computer files.","When such files are accessed or retrieved through a network on a client computer, the client may utilize or process the file with the appropriate software. The types of files are generally recognizable with the extensions at the end of the filenames. This information is used by the operating system to launch the right program when the user clicks on or selects the filename. For example, file.txt represents a text file that can be opened with a text editor program. If a HyperText Markup Language (hereinafter referred to as \u201cHTML\u201d) document is accessed, a client's web browser may parse the HTML document so as to display the document. Likewise, if a word processing document is accessed, the client may activate a word processor program to open the document. Alternatively, if an image file is retrieved, an image viewer or an image editor may be activated to process and display the image.","Based on the type of information or resource that is being accessed, a client may need additional functionality. For example, a video and sound clip file may require the capability to view the video and sound clip in a certain format. The added capabilities needed to process accessed files have to be installed on the client computer. Usually, the added capabilities that are installed onto the client computer are referred to as \u201cplug-ins\u201d or helper programs. Thus, when additional capabilities are needed, a plug-in or a helper program is downloaded (i.e. retrieved) and installed on or added to the client computer.","Various data files are typically classified into specific data file types. Upon receiving or accessing a file, the client will typically examine the file extension characterizing the file type, to determine how to process the file, e.g. launch an adapted application program to process the file. As described hereinabove, the file processing may consist of launching an application that has been installed as a plug-in for a browser.","When files are sent as attachments of e-mails through networks, these files must be encoded for transmission. The standard Internet protocol for sending attachments is based upon an encoding scheme called Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (hereinafter referred to as \u201cMIME\u201d), designed by the Internet Engineering Task Force. MIME is a specification for formatting non-ASCII messages so that these messages may be sent over networks such as the Internet. MIME enables many browsers to display and output files that are not in an HTML format. In a similar manner, e-mail applications supporting MIME can send and receive files (e.g. image, audio, and video files) via the Internet mail system. MIME types typically identify a content type and allow a browser or server to select the correct type of viewer for a file. There are many predefined MIME types, such as GIF graphics files and PostScript files.","One feature of MIME is that a sending e-mail program inserts a field in outgoing messages identifying what type of files are contained within the encoded attachment. By looking at the information in the MIME header inserted by the sending program, a program which receives the attachments can handle these attachments adequately. For example, if the MIME header identifies an attachment as a spreadsheet (e.g. MIME type=application\/ms-excel), then the receiving e-mail program can launch the appropriate spreadsheet program to open the attached file.","Two things need to be done to make sending and receiving MIME attachments work smoothly. First, all users must agree on a common set of names for different attachment types. For example, all e-mail programs should identify Excel (Excel is a Trademark of Microsoft Corp.) spreadsheet attachments with the MIME type of \u201capplication\/ms-excel\u201d, or \u201ctext\/html\u201d for an attached HTML web page. Secondly, users must initialize their e-mail programs by associating programs with types of attachments. For instance, when using Internet Explorer (Internet Explorer is a Trademark of Microsoft Corp.) as a web browser, the e-mail program must be informed of using Internet Explorer when receiving and processing an attachment of type \u201ctext\/html\u201d.","When a user receives a file through a network and selects the file for processing (e.g. by clicking on the icon of a file attached to a received e-mail), the user needs the corresponding software. As the number of different possible types of digital assets grows, the number of different possible types of files and the corresponding resources that are required for processing these assets also grows. Further, each different type of file may require a different application, helper or plug-in program to access, process, or display each individual file type. Since the resources needed for processing all possible types of files cannot be stored in advance on a client computer, there is a need in the art for a user to be able to obtain access to specific resources from a network (e.g. from the Internet network) for processing specific types of files.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120"]},"Adobe Acrobat Reader software (Acrobat is a Trademark of Adobe Corp.) or other software products able to process PDF files must be installed on a user's computer system (also referred to hereinbelow as \u201cuser's device\u201d) for processing the attached file. When the user tries one of the options \u201cView . . . \u201d or \u201cLaunch . . . \u201d, the user's device attempts to locate the software adapted to process MIME file type \u201cPDF\u201d. If no such software is found, the user receives error message , for example, \u201cSorry, an application to open this document cannot be found\u201d as illustrated.","Therefore, when the software required for processing a file is not installed on the user's device, the user faces several problems that are not trivial for most people (e.g. those who are not expert in information technology and computing systems), as follows:\n\n","Therefore, there is a need in the art for a system and a method for providing easily, on-demand, and transparently, the required software to process an accessed or received file.","In a method for processing a file, the file has a filename in which an address is encoded for software required to process the file. In other forms, systems and program products are provided.","An aspect includes a computer system receiving a single filename of the file to be processed. The encoded address is encoded in a particular format that includes characters permitted for specifying a uniform resource locator. A second format excludes at least some characters permitted in the first format. The encoded address is encoded is in the second format. The computer system extracts the encoded address from the single filename. The single filename further includes a primary filename of the software, which is required to process said file separated by at least one control character from the encoded address. The computer system decodes the encoded address by converting the encoded address extracted from the single filename into a decoded address formatted in the first format. The decoding also includes the computer system accessing said software required to process said file using the decoded address and processing said file using the accessed software.","According to the present invention, the filename of a file that is accessed locally or through a computer network is used to encode the address, or URL, of an application, or plug-in, that is adapted to process this file, using a particular lexicography. The lexicography that is used is determined so as to avoid particular characters that may be forbidden by a given file system, e.g. \u201c\\\u201d with Microsoft Windows operating system (Windows is a Trademark of Microsoft Corp.), and\/or to encode the addresses so as to reduce address sizes. Addresses to be encoded may be of any forms (e.g. local addresses, addresses in private networks, or Internet addresses), however, for sake of illustration, the examples given in the following description are based on URL type of addresses. The address of the required software or plug-in may be encoded either when the file is transmitted from a server to a user system, or when the file is locally saved or transmitted to another system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["a","b","c ","a"],"b":["2","2","200","205","210","215","220"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b ","b":["210","225","230","235","250","255","230","255","245","240","250","255"],"sup":"th "},"As an illustration of the algorithm described hereinabove, consider the case of a file based on Adobe PDF named \u201cauthentication.pdf\u201d, that a user would like to send to someone else as an e-mail attachment using a lexicography table having predetermined characters and associated characters, to encode the software address string into the filename, wherein:\n\n","When the originator of the Adobe PDF document \u201cauthentication.pdf\u201d attaches the document to an e-mail, an option such as \u201cEmbedding software ADDR . . . \u201d may be selected to encode the URL of the software repository, wherein the software required to process the PDF document can be accessed at:\n\n","It should be noted that, for sake of illustration, this encoding algorithm is purposely very simple. A preferred algorithm would comprise replacing a sequence of forbidden characters by single characters (e.g. replacing \u201c\/\/:\u201d by \u201c(\u201d). In a similar manner, some sets of characters may be replaced by more compact codes (e.g. replacing \u201chttp:\/\/\u201d by \u201cH!\u201d). Using such compression as described hereinabove serves to optimize encoding, and reduce the size of an encoded software address.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"c ","b":["100","120","110"]},"When the attachment of the above mentioned e-mail is selected to be processed, a test is performed to determine whether or not the software application, or plug-in, required to process this file is locally installed. To process (e.g. read) this file \u2032, Adobe Acrobat Reader software must be installed on the user's device. If the software is not currently installed, the software would need to be downloaded from a server (i.e. a software repository on the Internet).","Using the same table of lexicographic transformations that has been used by the sender of the file, the software address or URL is extracted and decoded from the filename. To that end, certain symbols or groups of symbols of the \u201cencoded URL\u201d are replaced by symbols or characters that are compatible with URL conventions on the Internet, as mentioned hereinabove, to get the decoded and valid URL, as follows:\n\n","As depicted in , Web browser program  is activated on user's device  and extracted URL  is copied in the Web browser address field. This decoded URL, extracted from the filename of the attached or accessed file, transmits a request through Internet network  to at least one of a plurality of software application repository servers, generally referred to as server - through server -in . In the given example, the software application repository server - is www.adobe.com and accessed file  is the HTML download utility software page readstep2.html.","The requested download utility software is received and displayed on the user's device. In one example, download utility software asks the user to specify a set of parameters or options, such as language, platform or operating system, and connection speed. Those selections are used to determine which version of the software needs to be downloaded.","Using the parameters specified by the user with the download utility software, the requested software is then downloaded from software application repository - to the user's device  where the software is installed (once decompressed, if required) and launched to process the attached or accessed file. When the file has been processed, the downloaded software may be deleted or stored, depending upon operating system parameters or user needs.","While the present invention allows for encoding of the address of the software required to process a file, additional information relative to the software may also be encoded, such as the particular version of software needed for processing the file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","405","410","415","420","245","425","430","435","245"]},"When the software address and the options are available, the system accesses the referenced download utility software in step . The user may be asked to select other options or enter some parameters in steps  and , such as language, as mentioned hereinabove. The required software is then downloaded in step , installed in step , and the file is processed in step . The process performed on the file varies according to the type of file and the software access conditions (for example, the connection speed, the kind of software license, and the like). Such a process may comprise, for example, displaying or editing the content of the file.","When the file is closed, depending upon operating system parameters or user needs, as mentioned hereinabove, the software that has been installed can be removed automatically or upon user's request in steps  and , or can even be permanently stored on local disk if free distribution of the installed software is permitted.","If the required software is already installed on the client's device, a test is done in step  to determine whether or not options are encoded within the filename. If options are encoded within the filename, the options are extracted and decoded in steps  and  as mentioned hereinabove, and a new test is performed to check if, for example, there are options about the minimum version number required for processing the received file. If this is the case, the indicated minimum required version number is compared with the version number of the already installed software in step . If, as a result of this test, a new version must be installed, the required software is accessed and installed in the manner described in steps  to  hereinabove. In such a case, the requested software is preferably stored on permanent storage on the user's device, not being removed once the attached, accessed, or received file has been processed, as suggested with dotted lines. Naturally, depending upon operating system parameters or user needs, the old version of the software may be removed.","In cases where a software address is not embedded within the filename in step , or when the required software is already installed on the user's device in step , or there are not options encoded as parameters within the filename in step , the received file would be immediately processed using already installed software in step .","In the illustrative example described hereinabove, the software required to process the attached, accessed, or received file is downloaded before being installed on the user's device with the aim of processing the file. However, it must be understood that the software could be partially executed from a remote server, without being locally installed on the user's device. This may be the case with a transcoding application (e.g. when the format of a received document file must be converted to a format compatible with the user's device) so as to enable the user to view the received document in the small display of a handheld computing device. In this case, the file to be processed (e.g. transcoded) may be parsed or adapted on the server wherein the software is located, and locally displayed on the user's device with a standard file viewer.","Therefore, using the present invention, the user automatically downloads the software package needed for processing an attached, accessed, or received file, which presents several advantages, to wit:\n\n","Naturally, in order to satisfy local and specific requirements, a person skilled in the art may apply to the solution described hereinabove, modifications and alterations all of which, however, are included within the scope of protection of the invention as defined by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 2","i":["a","b","c "],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
