---
title: Phrase generation using part(s) of a suggested phrase
abstract: Real-time query expansion (RTQE) is a process of supplementing an original query with addition terms or expansion choices that are ranked according to some figure of merit and presented while users are still formulating their queries. As disclosed herein, phrases may be presented and one or more terms of a focused-on phrase may be pinned (as desirable to the user). Subsequent lists may be presented as a function of pinned terms and/or user input. In one embodiment, a placeholder may be substituted for one or more pinned terms if less than some predetermined threshold of phrases is able to be presented based upon the pinned terms and/or user input, and another list of phrases may be presented as a function of a query using fewer than all the pinned terms. The placeholder may allow out-of-index phrases to be formed, for example, based upon two or more phrases and/or terms input by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316296&OS=08316296&RS=08316296
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08316296
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081001
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Today, many computer-related applications help facilitate quicker and more accurate text entry. Auto-completion techniques are commonly used in text messaging applications on cellular telephones, for example, because a numeric keypad or keyboard on a telephone is relatively small and difficult to use. Similar techniques are also commonly used in internet search engines to display frequently entered terms and phrases. While current auto-completion techniques have improved accuracy and speed (as compared to inputting terms manually), there remains room for improvement. For example current auto-completion techniques offer a user limited flexibility in modifying a suggested phrase.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","According to a first aspect, a method for assisting a user in generating a phrase is provided. The method comprises presenting a list of phrases, where at least one phrase comprises more than one term. While a phrase is generally understood as meaning more than one term, as used herein, particularly with regard to certain aspects or embodiment, a phrase can include merely one term or more than one term. The method also comprises pinning fewer than all the terms in a focused-on phrase comprising more than one term and presenting a second list of phrases based upon the pinned terms. The second list of phrases may be presented, for example, based upon a query that retrieves phrases that are relevant to the pinned terms.","According to another aspect, a method for assisting a user in generating a phrase will systematically loosen the relevance of retrieved phrases, when fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is otherwise retrieved. The method comprises presenting a list of phrases, pinning one or more terms from the presented list, and conducting a search of phrases based upon the one or more pinned terms, where the pinned terms are substituted with a placeholder (e.g., wildcard) when fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved during the search. It will be appreciated that the placeholder may hold the spot of one or more terms. The method also comprises presenting a second list of phrases as a function of the phrases retrieved from the search.","According to another aspect, a system for assisting a user in generating a phrase is provided. The system comprises an acquisition component configured to obtain sets of phrases from one or more data sources, a focusing component configured to focus on a phrase obtained by the acquisition component, and a pinning component configured to pin one or more terms of the focused-on phrase, where the pinned terms are inserted in a character entry field. The system also comprises a substitution component configured to temporarily replace one or more pinned terms with a placeholder when a second set of phrases, obtained by the acquisition component, comprises fewer than a predetermined threshold of terms.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","Turning initially to , an exemplary methodology  is illustrated for assisting a user in generating a phrase using real-time query expansion (RTQE). In one example, the phrases can be so constructed and used for entering a query into a handheld device, such as a cellular telephone, for example. The method  begins at , and a list of phrases is presented at . At least one phrase in the list comprises more than one term. A term, as used herein, might include a word, number, or symbol, for example, and a phrase might comprise one or more terms. The list of phrases may be presented when the user opens a character entry application and\/or when the user inputs text into a character entry field of the character entry application. A character entry application, for example, may be part of and\/or used in conjunction with a text messaging application, a search engine application, and\/or another application that commonly uses auto-completion functionality, for example.","The presented phrases may be retrieved from a plurality of data sources. For example, phrases may be retrieved from an internet source that comprises phrases that are commonly entered in a search engine, a dictionary of phrases internal to a device the character entry application is operating on (e.g., a cellular telephone), and\/or a source that saves phrases the user previously entered in the character entry application. In one example, graphical representations are used to indicate the source of the retrieved phrases. For example, icons, similar to those used in desktop applications to represent various file formats, may be used to represent the sources of the phrases.","The list of phrases may be arranged according to some figure of merit. One example of a figure of merit may comprise a consideration of the popularity of one or more phrases (e.g., relative to some context of interest). For example, the phrases may be arranged according to how frequently the phrase is used by the user in the character entry application and\/or how frequently the phrase is used by others to conduct a search.","In one embodiment, the phrases are presented as a function of one or more characters input into the character entry field. The phrases presented in the list may comprise terms that begin with the one or more characters entered into the character entry field. In one example, the user may select whether the presented phrases include phrases that begin with the character(s) entered (e.g., the location of the character(s) in the character entry field correspond to the location of the character(s) in the phrase) or whether presented phrases comprise a term that begins with the character(s) entered. For example, if a user types \u201csp,\u201d a user may designate whether the presented phrases include only phrases that begin with \u201csp\u201d or whether the presented phrases may also include phrases that have a second, third, etc., term that begins with \u201csp.\u201d It will be appreciated that the character(s) in a term that match the character(s) input by the user and\/or the term that includes the character(s) may be presented in some distinguished manner (e.g., bold, underlined, highlighted, etc.).","At , fewer than all the terms in the focused-on phrase comprising more than one term are pinned. A phrase in the list may be focused on by default (e.g., the phrase having the highest figure of merit, the most popular phrase in the list, etc.) or by user input. To focus on other than a default phrase, a user may scroll to a different phrase in the list.","The term \u201cpinned\u201d is used in a broad sense herein to comprise, among other things, one or more terms that are comprised in the focused-on phrase and are selectively added to the phrase being generated or otherwise chosen based upon the occurrence of some predetermined event. A predetermined event might include, for example, the user pressing a d-pad (on a cellular telephone) to the right and\/or the user focusing on the phrase such that one or more terms in the phrase are automatically pinned as a function of characters in the character entry field. In one example, the pinned terms include a term that comprises characters entered into the character entry field and terms that precede that term. Terms capable of being pinned may be presented in a distinctive manner. For example, the one or more terms may be underlined in the list and\/or parts of those terms that are not in the character entry field may appear in phantom (e.g., a lighter font color) in the character entry field.","At , a second list of phrases is presented based upon the pinned terms. In one example, the pinned terms are used to conduct a query of data sources (similar to those used to retrieve the list of phrases at ) to retrieve phrases that are more relevant (than the previously presented phrases), based upon the pinned terms. It will be appreciated that fewer than all of the pinned terms may be used to conduct a query of the one or more sources. In one example, a placeholder may be used to temporarily represent the one or more pinned terms not used to conduct a query (and the placeholder may be replaced by those one or more pinned terms prior to presenting the second list of phrases).","In one embodiment, the phrases presented in the second list are presented in phrases that comprise at least one of the pinned terms, but may, in one example, include all of the pinned terms. For example, the phrases may have common first and second terms if the first and second terms were pinned in a previously presented list (and the terms retrieved at  may be appended to the first and second term so as to cause unique phrases based upon the third, fourth, etc. terms).","A subsequent list of phrases may be presented if additional terms, for example, from the second list are pinned. A subsequent list of phrases may also be presented based upon user input. For example, if a desired phrase is not presented in the second list of phrases, the user may input characters into the character entry field (and a query may be conducted based upon one or more of the pinned terms and\/or the user input), and a subsequent list of phrases may be presented. It will be appreciated that subsequent lists may continue to be presented to the user, additional phrases may be focused on, and terms may be pinned until the desired phrase is generated. It will also be appreciated that a user may add and\/or delete a character from one or more pinned terms and list of phrases may be presented based upon the remaining pinned terms and\/or user input.","Once a desired phrase has been generated (as a function of the pinned terms and\/or user input), the user may select the generated phrase. The selected phrase may be inserted into an SMS text message box and\/or input into a search field text box, such as on an internet application, for example. The method  ends at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","104"]},"At , one or more terms from the presented list are pinned. A user may pin one or more terms by focusing on a phrase in the list (e.g., comprising the desired term(s)) and moving right (e.g., using a d-pad on a cellular telephone), for example, and\/or designating the term(s) in some other manner (e.g., hitting enter or another key on a keyboard). It will be appreciated that a term or terms capable of being pinned may be displayed in some distinguished manner (e.g., highlighting, underlining, etc.). Distinguishing terms capable of being pinned may be useful, for example, where a phrase is focused on and fewer than all terms in the phrase may be pinned if the user moves right, for example.","At , a search of phrases is conducted based upon one or more pinned terms. Pinned terms may be substituted with a placeholder (e.g., a wildcard) when fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases matching the full set of pinned terms is retrieved during the search. The placeholder may act as a marker to hold the spot of one or more terms that are removed prior to a query being conducted. For example, if the pinned terms are in series (e.g., forming the beginning portion of a phrase), a placeholder may be inserted for one or more terms in the series so that a query may be conducted on a limited portion of the series (e.g., causing the scope of the query to be expanded).","In one embodiment, the placeholder initially replaces a term further to the left of other terms (in a character entry field) and continues to replace additional terms further to the left (relative to other remaining terms in the character entry field) until a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved during the search. For example, suppose \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d is presented in the character entry field. If a query is conducted based upon \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d and fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved, the term \u201cgreen\u201d may be replaced with a placeholder. A query may be conducted based upon \u201c* tea ice\u201d and\/or \u201c*tea ice (where the \u201c*\u201d represents the placeholder), and phrases that include zero or more characters precedent to the terms \u201ctea ice\u201d may be retrieved. If fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved, a query may be conducted based upon \u201c* ice\u201d and\/or \u201c*ice\u201d. This technique, for example, may allow for improved use of data sources (particularly if the phrases comprised in the data sources are limited as a function of storage capacity) by retrieving phrases based upon less than all of the pinned terms. It also improves the likelihood that at least one phrase is retrieved from the data source regardless of the terms in the character entry field (as compared to other auto-completion techniques).","Conducting searches using a placeholder may allow out-of-index phrases (e.g., phrases not stored in the data source(s)) to be created as a function of phrases that are stored in the data source(s). That is, one or more terms of each of two or more phrases in the data source(s) may be combined to form a phrase that is not in the data source(s). For example, the user may want to generate the phrase, \u201cthis is a test of the American broadcast system.\u201d While this phrase may not be in the data source(s), it may be constructed based upon two phrases (\u201cthis is a test of your knowledge\u201d and \u201cthe American broadcast system is sounding\u201d), for example. The user may pin the terms \u201cthis is a test of\u201d and insert the characters \u201cthe Ame\u201d thereafter, for example, and a search may be conducted based upon \u201c* Ame\u201d and\/or \u201c*Ame\u201d (if less than a predetermined threshold of phrases were retrieved when the placeholder replaced less than all the pinned terms). The search may cause the phrase \u201cthe American broadcast system is sounding\u201d to be retrieved and appended to the pinned terms \u201cthis is a test of the.\u201d The phrase \u201cthis is a test of the America broadcast system is sounding,\u201d may be presented to the user, and the user may pin the terms \u201cAmerican broadcast system,\u201d to generate the phrase \u201cthis is a test of the American broadcast system.\u201d It will be understood to those skilled in the art that as long as the phrases that comprise the desired phrase are in the database, and individual terms are capable of being pinned, the phrase may be generated compositionally. Moreover, the user may manually enter one or more terms that are not already in the data source(s) to arrive at the desired phrase.","It will be appreciated that phrases that are generated by combining multiple in-index phrases (e.g., \u201cthis is a test of the American broadcast system\u201d), but are not initially stored in the data source(s) may be added to the data source(s). Alternatively, fewer than all of the generated phrase may be stored in the data source(s) (e.g., where memory is scarce). For example, terms the user manually enters because the terms are not already stored in the data source(s) (e.g., out-of index terms) may be added to the data source(s) to become in-index terms\/phrases, but terms in the phrase that are already stored in the data source(s) (individually or as part of a phrase of two or more terms) may not be stored in the data source(s) again. Limiting storage to those terms that are not already in the data source(s) may for example, reduce the amount of memory used by the data source(s) (which may be particularly desirable where memory may be limited such as in a cellular telephone, for example).","At , a second list of phrases is presented as a function of phrases retrieved from the search at . In one embodiment, the phrases presented in the second list commonly share the terms pinned at . For example, \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d may be presented to the left of the phrases retrieved at  (e.g., the first three terms of the phrases presented in the second list are \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d). If a placeholder was substituted for one or more pinned terms, the placeholder may be replaced with the pinned terms it was substituted for prior to being presented to the user.","It will be appreciated that user input may also be received and a search may be conducted (at ) based upon one or more pinned terms and the text input by the user. For example, if a desired phrase is not presented to the user in the second list, a user may input additional text into the character entry field, and a search may be conducted based upon the pinned terms and the additional text. In one embodiment, the placeholder may replace both pinned terms and user input so that a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved. That is, the user input may be treated similarly to terms pinned from a previously presented list of phrases (e.g., the phrases presented at ). For example, if \u201cgreen tea\u201d is pinned and the user inputs \u201cice c\u201d into the character entry field after the pinned terms, a placeholder may be substituted for \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d (e.g., conducting a search using the search term \u201c* c\u201d where this includes the \u201cspace\u201d before the \u201cc\u201d). Additionally, the placeholder may substitute characters (including terms and spaces) up to the term boundary of the last term (e.g., the last or rightmost space in the character entry field). In the example above, if still more phrases are preferred to achieve a predetermined threshold, a placeholder may be substituted for \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d, using the search term \u201c*C\u201d. While substituting characters up to the term boundary of the last term is not preferred, it promotes the likelihood that at least one phrase will be retrieved (and will in practicality return many results since merely the letter c, for example, will be searched and thus many results beginning with the letter c will be returned). That is, the characters preceding the term boundary of the last term serve as predictors of upcoming terms and when the placeholder is substituted for characters preceding the term boundary of the last term, the predictions are less accurate (e.g., relying solely on the popularity of terms that begin with the character \u201cc\u201d).","The techniques disclosed herein may be used to present subsequent lists to the user until a desired phrase is generated. When the desired phrase is generated, the user may select the phrase, causing the phrase to be input into a desired field (e.g., an SMS text message, an internet website, etc.). The method  ends at .","By way of example,  demonstrate at least some of the advantages of generating a phrase using the techniques disclosed herein (e.g., as provided in ). More particularly,  illustrate a display , a character entry application , a character entry field , and a field for displaying lists of phrases .","A user may use the techniques, for example, to generate the phrase \u201cgreen tea ice.\u201d In , the user inputs the character \u201cg\u201d into the character entry field  and a list of phrases that begin with \u201cg\u201d is presented to the user in the field for displaying lists of phrases . It will be appreciated that phrases may also be presented prior to user input. The character(s) in a phrase on the list that correspond to the character(s) in the character entry field  may be represented in a distinctive manner (e.g., bold font, highlighting, underlining, etc.). This may, for example, assist a user in determining which term(s) may be pinned (if the user moves right). It will also be appreciated that a phrase in the list may be focused on by default. In the illustrated example, the phrase \u201cgoggles\u201d  is focused on by default.","The phrases may be ordered according to some figure of merit, for example, such as how popular the phrase is relative to other phrases. It will be appreciated that the number of phrases retrieved and\/or presented may be a function of the available area on the display , and phrases presented may be those with a higher figure or merit, relative to those not retrieved and\/or presented. For example, fewer phrases may be presented in a display on a cellular telephone (with a relatively small screen) than on a computer display.","Graphical representations  corresponding to the source of a phrase may also be presented. For example, the graphical representations  may indicate that the phrase was retrieved from an internal dictionary, an internet source, etc. It one example, a graphical representation  may be selected and additional phrases from the source represented by the graphical representation  may be retrieved.","As illustrated in , the user may continue to input characters into the character entry field  until a desired term (\u201cgreen\u201d) appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . If the desired term(s) appears, the user may focus on the phrase comprising the desired term(s) and pin the term(s). In the illustrated example, the user focuses on \u201cgreen day\u201d  and pins \u201cgreen\u201d (e.g., by moving right on a d-pad on a cellular telephone). In one example, the part of the term that would be pinned (if the user moves right), but has not been typed yet (e.g., \u201cen\u201d), may be displayed in phantom  in the character entry field  when the user focuses on the phrase.","As illustrated in , the pinned term(s) may appear in the character entry field  and another list of phrases (more relevant as a function of a search conducted based upon the pinned term \u201cgreen\u201d) may appear in the field for displaying lists of phrases . In the illustrated example, phrases that begin with \u201cgreen\u201d are retrieved from data sources. If additional terms of the desired phrase are presented (e.g., a desired next term in the phrase), the phrase comprising the desired next term may be focused on. In , the user focuses on \u201cgreen tea\u201d  and pins the term \u201ctea\u201d (since \u201cgreen\u201d was already pinned).","In , the term \u201ctea\u201d  is added to the character entry field  and another list of phrases (more relevant as a function of a search conducted based upon the terms \u201cgreen tea\u201d) appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . If the phrases presented do not assist the user in generating the desired phrase, the user may enter additional text into the character entry field, causing the list of phrases in the field for displaying lists of phrases  to change.","In , the user inputs the character \u201ci\u201d  after pinned terms \u201cgreen tea\u201d in the character entry field  and another list of phrases appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . Referring back to , two phrases were retrieved based upon a search of the terms \u201cgreen tea\u201d and neither of the two matching phrases comprised \u201cgreen tea i\u201d (so no results would be returned if a search were conducted based upon the terms \u201cgreen tea i\u201d). To retrieve terms relevant to at least a portion of the terms\/characters in the character entry field , a placeholder may be substituted for one or more of the terms in the character entry field , and terms relevant to the remaining portion of the terms\/characters in the character entry field  may be retrieved. For example, the placeholder may replace the term \u201cgreen\u201d and a search may be conducted based upon the phrase \u201c* tea i\u201d and\/or \u201c*tea i.\u201d If fewer than some predetermined threshold of terms appear based upon a search of \u201c* tea i\u201d and\/or \u201c*tea I,\u201d the placeholder may substitute for \u201cgreen tea\u201d and a search based upon \u201c* i\u201d may be conducted. If still more phrases are needed, the placeholder may finally substitute for \u201cgreen tea \u201d (with a \u201cspace\u201d after the word \u201ctea\u201d) and a search based upon \u201c*i\u201d may be conducted.","In the illustrated example, the phrases retrieved are appended to the terms that are pinned in the character entry field (so that the field for displaying lists of phrases  comprises phrases that include the pinned terms). For example, if \u201cchocolate ice\u201d was found as a match to \u201c* i\u201d, it appends \u201cice\u201d to \u201cgreen tea\u201d to generate the phrase \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d (even if that phrase was not in the sources). The user may focus on a desired phrase and pin the next term (e.g., the user may focus on the phrase \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d  and pin the term \u201cice\u201d).","When the desired phrase is generated (e.g., \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d), the phrase may be inserted into a desired location (e.g., search engine field, a text message, etc.). In the illustrated example, the generated phrase is inserted into a desired location when a \u201csearch\u201d button  is selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 8-9","FIGS. 8-9"],"b":["322","322"]},"As illustrated in , the user inserts the characters \u201csp\u201d  in the character entry field , and phrases that comprise \u201csp\u201d are presented in the field for displaying lists of phrases . Since match-anyway functionality is enabled, phrases that do not begin with \u201csp\u201d may also be displayed in the field for displaying lists of phrases . The user may scroll to a desired phrase (e.g., \u201cfantasy sports\u201d ) and pin one or more terms. In the illustrated example, terms precedent to and including the term that comprises \u201csp\u201d are pinned (when the user moves right). It will be appreciated that the user may also just pin the term \u201csports\u201d (e.g., ignoring the term \u201cfantasy\u201d).","In , the pinned terms \u201cfantasy sports\u201d  are displayed in the character entry field  and additional phrases are suggested as a function of a search of data sources based upon the terms \u201cfantasy sports.\u201d It will be appreciated that lists may continue to be presented as a function of pinned terms and\/or input characters until the desired phrase is generated. The phrase may then be inserted into a location specified by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1004","1002","1006","1008","1010","1000","1014"]},"The acquisition component  obtains a first set of phrases from one or more data sources  upon the occurrence of a predetermined event (e.g., a character entry application is opened and\/or user input is received in the character entry field of a character entry application). In one embodiment, the acquisition component  obtains phrases that are more relevant (relative to other terms in the data sources ) based upon phrases that are more popular to the user (determined as a function of phrases previously selected by the user). Phrases may also be more relevant, for example, based upon user input received into the character entry field of the character entry application. The phrases obtained by the acquisition component  may be displayed to the user  on a display .","The focusing component  focuses on a phrase from the first set of phrases obtained by the acquisition component . The focusing component  may focus on a phrase by default and\/or focus on a phrase based upon user input. If a phrase is focused on by default, the user may focus on a different phrase by scrolling through the set of obtained set of phrases. It will be appreciated that the focusing component  may present the focused-on phrase to the user  in a distinguished manner (e.g., highlighting, underlining, etc.).","The pinning component  pins one or more terms of the focused-on phrase by the focusing component  and inserts the pinned term(s) into the character entry field. In one example, the pinning component  automatically pins a term that is further to the left of other terms in a focused-on phrase that have not been pinned. For example, if \u201cI like\u201d has already been pinned and a user focus on a phrase that reads \u201cI like football games,\u201d the pinning component  may automatically pin \u201cfootball\u201d after the phrase has been focused on for five seconds. In another example, the pinning component  pins a term as a function of user input (e.g., the user touches the right arrow key on a d-pad on a cellular telephone). In one embodiment, the pinning component  indicates to the user  which term will be pinned from the focused-on phrase (e.g., by displaying the term in phantom in the character entry field and\/or underlining the term).","The acquisition component  obtains a second and\/or subsequent set of phrases from the one or more data sources  as a function of the pinned terms and\/or other user input into the character entry field. In one example, the acquisition component appends the obtained terms to the pinned terms to form phrases. The second and\/or subsequent set of phrases is displayed to the user , and the focusing component  focuses on a phrase from the second and\/or subsequent set of phrases. The pinning component  may pin a term from the focused-on phrase and\/or the user  may select a phrase (causing the acquisition component  to not obtain a third set of phrases).","The substitution component  is configured to temporarily replace one or more pinned terms with a placeholder when a set of phrases comprises fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases so that the acquisition component  may obtain another set of phrases as a function of less than all the pinned terms in the character entry field. For example, the character entry field may comprise the phrase \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d and the acquisition component  may attempt conduct a query of the one or more data sources  to obtain phrases relevant to that phrase. If fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is obtained by the acquisition component , the substitution component  may substitute \u201cgreen\u201d with a placeholder so that phrases relevant to \u201ctea ice\u201d may be obtained, for example. If still fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is obtained, the substitution component  may substitute \u201cgreen tea\u201d with a placeholder so that phrases relevant to \u201cice\u201d may be obtained: In one example, the substitution component  reinserts the substituted terms in the spot marked by the placeholder when the acquisition component  obtains at least a predetermined threshold of phrases. This may, for example, allow the pinned terms to be displayed with the phrases obtained by the acquisition component  (such that the terms from the obtained phrases are appended to the pinned terms). In another example, the substitution component replaces the terms that cannot be part of the desired phrase with the pinned terms. For example, the acquisition component  may obtain the phrase \u201cvanilla ice cream,\u201d and the substitution component  may replace \u201cvanilla ice\u201d with \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d since the terms \u201cgreen tea ice\u201d have already been pinned.","It will be understood to those skilled in the art that substituting one or more terms with a placeholder (e.g., a wildcard) may allow out-of-index phrases to be generated. That is, phrases may be generated that are based upon one or more phrases in the data sources  as well as terms manually input by the user (e.g., because they were out-of-index). This may, for example, reduce the number of phrases that need to be stored in the data sources . For example, \u201cgreen tea ice cream\u201d may not be stored in the data source , but the phrases \u201cgreen tea\u201d and \u201cvanilla ice cream\u201d may be stored in the data sources . The phrase \u201cgreen tea ic,\u201d for example may be inserted into the character entry field (through pinning and\/or user input), and a query may be conducted to retrieve phrases that comprise \u201cgreen tea ic.\u201d If less than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved, a placeholder may be inserted for one or more of the terms. If the placeholder replaces \u201cgreen tea\u201d, for example, a query may be conducted based upon \u201c* ic\u201d and\/or \u201c*ic,\u201d and the phrase \u201cvanilla ice cream\u201d may be retrieved. The substitution component  may replace \u201cvanilla\u201d with \u201cgreen tea,\u201d since the placeholder represents terms that are precedent to \u201cic\u201d (e.g., \u201cgreen tea\u201d).","It will be appreciated that the phrase generated by the user may be stored in the data sources . For example, the phrase \u201cgreen tea ice cream\u201d may be stored in the data sources  so that it may be obtained more quickly (relative to generating the phrase through pinning and\/or user input) in future queries by the acquisition component . It will also be appreciated that the data sources  may limit which terms in a phrase are added to the data sources . In one example, terms added to the data sources  are those that are not already in the data sources (individually or as part of a phrase of more than one term). That is, out-of-index terms become in-index terms by adding them to the data sources . Limiting the terms added to the data sources  may reduce the amount of storage space used on a device with limited storage capacity, such as a cellular telephone, for example.","Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer-readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium  (e.g., a CD-R, DVD-R, or a platter of a hard disk drive), on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment , the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to perform a method, such as the exemplary methods  of  or  of , for example. In another such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to implement a system, such as the exemplary system  of , for example. Many such computer-readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 122"],"b":["1210","1212","1212","1216","1218","1218","1214"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
