---
title: Nanosegregated surfaces as catalysts for fuel cells
abstract: A method of preparing a nanosegregated Pt alloy having enhanced catalytic properties. The method includes providing a sample of Pt and one or more of a transition metal in a substantially inert environment, and annealing the sample in such an environment for a period of time and at a temperature profile to form a nanosegregated Pt alloy having a Pt-skin on a surface. The resulting alloy is characterized by a plurality of compositionally oscillatory atomic layers resulting in an advantageous electronic structure with enhanced catalytic properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07871738&OS=07871738&RS=07871738
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 07871738
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/008,605, filed Dec. 20, 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38 between the United States: Government and the University of Chicago and\/or pursuant to BE-AC02-06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne, LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.","The present invention relates generally towards a new class of Platinum (Pt) multi-metallic catalysts. More particularly, the invention is directed to a catalyst having surface layers of a Pt based catalyst modified by annealing, which induces unique near-surface formations termed as nanosegregated surfaces. This catalyst is particularly advantageous for use in conjunction with fuel cells, such as polymer electrolyte feel cells.","This section is intended to provide a background or context to the invention that is, inter alia, recited in the claims. The description herein may include concepts that could be pursued, but are not necessarily ones that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated herein, what is described in this section is not prior art to the description and claims in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","Fuel cells are rapidly becoming an important component in the energy industry; but currently costly Pt catalyst is typically a required component of the fuel cell. To make fuel cells commercial competitive at reasonable cost, the amount of Pt used in the fuel cell should be reduced by a factor of 4 to 5. Further, catalyst stability should be improved for longer term operation of the fuel cell. Pt based alloys embedded in high surface area carbon substrates have been developed that improve catalyst performance by a factor of two. However, these efforts have not increased catalyst stability, and have not reduced the total loading of Pt in the fuel cell stacks to acceptable levels. Additionally, the substantial overpotential for oxygen reduction reaction (\u201cORR\u201d) at practical operating current densities still causes a reduction of thermal efficiency. These efforts have resulted in systems that are well below thermodynamic limits (typically to about 43% at 0.7 V versus the theoretical thermal efficiency of 83% at the reversible potential for the ORR). Also, the dissolution and\/or loss of the Pt surface area in the fuel cell cathode should be reduced for practical application of fuel cells.","New catalysts have been prepared based on the modification of Pt based alloys that can be in the form of bulk, thin films over various substrates, and\/or nanoparticles materials, Nanosegregated surface layers of Pt alloyed with transition metals, such as Co, Ni, Fe, Ti, Cr, V, Zr and Mn, for example, have been constructed with selected compositions to establish advantageous electronic structures which greatly enhance the catalytic properties, particularly as used for fuel cells. The composition of the nanosegregated surfaces is highly oscillatory in the first few atomic layers for all crystallographic orientations including polycrystalline materials. However, nanosegregated surface structures with a {111} crystallographic orientation have yielded catalytic enhancement by a factor of about ninety, versus conventional Pt-carbon catalysts and about ten times that of a corresponding pure Pt {111} surface for a cathodic fuel cell reaction. The prepared catalysts are thus particularly useful in polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells for applications such as in the automotive industry, by overcoming kinetic limitations for the oxygen reduction reaction (\u201cORR\u201d). The prepared materials may also have application in energy storage devices, including batteries, and magnetic storage devices due to unique surface properties.","In one set of embodiments, a method of preparing a nanosegregated Pt alloy having enhanced catalytic properties, comprises providing a sample comprising an alloy of Pt and one or more of a transition metal. The sample is subsequently annealed in an substantially inert and\/or reductive environment for a period and at a temperature profile to form a nanosegregated Pt alloy having a Pt-skin on a surface of the sample.","In another set of embodiments, a nanosegregated Pt alloy having enhanced catalytic properties, comprises an alloy of Pt with one or more of a transition metal, the alloy includes one or more layers proximate to a surface of the alloy. Each of the one or more layers have a concentration of Pt varying from the bulk concentration of Pt in the alloy and wherein the surface layer of the alloy comprises a Pt-skin.","Advantages and features of the invention, together with the organization and manner of operation thereof, will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like elements have like numerals throughout the several drawings described below.","To overcome the deficiencies of the conventional catalysts and attain advantageous commercial catalysts, various Pt based surface layers have been modified to achieve the desired catalytic activity, such as for use in polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells. Cathode materials with well-characterized surfaces have been modified so that the mechanism of action can be attributed to a specific property at the atomic and molecular level of the surface. The materials are assessed to determine (i) whether the kinetics of the ORR are structure-sensitive, (ii) the composition of the topmost surface atomic layers (the segregation profile), and (iii) how alloying, usually described in the art in terms of the ligand effect or\/and ensemble effect, alters the chemical properties of the surfaces. Aqueous electrochemical interfaces are complex in that they necessarily contain, solvent and electronic\/ionic charge, and experimentally it can be challenging to use in situ surface-sensitive methods to characterize potential-induced changes in the surface properties and reactivity.","Pt alloyed with transition metals, such as Co, Ni, Fe, Ti, Cr, V, Zr and Mn, for example, have been constructed with selected compositions to establish advantageous electronic structures which greatly enhance the catalytic properties. The resulting nanosegregated Pt based alloys are prepared through an annealing of the alloy in a substantially inert and\/or reductive environment. For example, the environment may be substantially N, H, or At gas, or mixtures thereof. Alternatively, annealing may be conducted under vacuum conditions. The annealing may be carried out for an appropriate time and an appropriate temperature profile for the alloy. In an embodiment, for example, an alloy of PtNi in the form of bulk, thin film and\/or nanoparticles, is annealed for a period ranging from about 20 minutes to about 240 minutes at a substantially controlled temperature of between about 350\u00b0 C. and 1000\u00b0 C., In still other embodiments a non-constant annealing temperature profile may be used to obtain the nanosegregated Pt based alloy.","A combination of ex situ and in situ, for example, surface-sensitive probes and density functional theory (DFT) calculations is used to assess the ORR on PtNi(hkl) single-crystal surfaces. The surface properties that govern the variations in reactivity of PtNi catalysts are identified. The influence of surface structures, surface segregation, and inter-metallic bonding on ORR kinetics is determined. The results described herein are applicable to any Pt-transition multi-metallic alloy regardless of the crystalline nature of the material, i.e. nanosegregated surfaces with the Pt-skin topmost layer have been successfully generated on polycrystalline as well as on single crystalline catalysts.","Well-characterized PtNi single-crystal electrode surfaces were formed and characterized with UHV methods for surface preparation and surface analysis. These surfaces were transferred into the electrochemical environment without airborne contamination, and the stability of the UHV-prepared surface was determined with a combination of in situ surface-sensitive probes with electrochemical methods to obtain activity relationships in real time.","The results of the preparation and characterization of PtNi(hkl) alloy surfaces in UHV are summarized in . The various surface-sensitive techniques that were used included low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), Auger electron spectroscopy (ABS), low-energy ion scattering (LEIS), and synchrotron-based high-resolution ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy (UPS). Each of these methods has certain advantages, and each yield complementary information. The surface symmetry obtained from LEED analysis shows that, whereas the PtNi{111} surface exhibits a (1\u00d71) pattern () (i.e, that of the bulk termination), the atomically less dense PtNi{100} surface shows a (1\u00d75) reconstruction pattern (the so-called \u201chex\u201d phase) in both the {011} and {01-1} directions (). Analysis of the PtNi{110} LEED data () indicates that this surface may exhibit a mixture of (1\u00d71) and (1\u00d72) periodicities, the latter being known as the (1\u00d72) missing-row structure (22).","The composition of the outermost atomic layer was obtained with LEIS, and after a final anneal, the surface atomic layer of all three PtNi(hkl) crystals were pure Pt (see ), the so-called Pt-skin structures. Evaluation has determined that segregation-driven near-surface compositional changes induced by annealing result in distinctive electronic properties of PtNi(hkl) alloys, and unique segregation profiles.","The surface electronic structures were obtained from the background-corrected UPS spectra. As summarized in , the d-band density of states (DOS) is structure-sensitive, and the position of the (d-band center shifts from \u22122.70 eVPtNi{110} to \u22123.10 eVPtNi{111} to \u22123.14 eV on PtNi{100}. Furthermore, the DOS of the alloy surfaces is quite different from that of corresponding pure Pt single crystals; that is, on the {110}, {100}, and {111} alloy surfaces, the d-band center is downshifted by about 0.16, 0.24, and 0.34 eV, respectively. Chemisorption energies were evaluated to determine correlation with the average energy of the d-state on the surface atoms to which the adsorbate binds (i.e., the ligand effect). Results on the {111} surfaces were compared with the same composition and arrangement of surface atoms but with a different d-band center position. In this manner the difference between the electronic surface structures of Pt{111} and PtNi{111} affected the adsorption of spectator species and the kinetics of the ORR.","The stability of the surface after transfer from UHV into the electrochemical environment was also determined. Surface X-ray scattering (SXS) was used to characterize both the potential range of stability as well as the near-surface composition of the alloy in situ. Only results for PtNi{111} are necessary because they provide the most useful information about the annealing-induced changes in the surface structure and segregation profile. The PtNi{111} has the face-centered cubic (fcc) lattice with random occupation of sites by Pt and Ni; and this lattice gives rise to SXS indicia similar to that obtained from a monocrystalline fcc lattice. Sensitivity to atomic layer composition is enhanced by the use of anomalous x-ray scattering techniques in which the incident X-ray energy is tuned to an atomic adsorption edge of the material. Thus, from SXS, information is obtained about the structure and compositions, both in the surface and subsurface layers.","The termination of the PtNi{111} lattice at the surface in terms of elemental composition and surface relaxation was determined by measurement and analysis of the crystal truncation rods (CTRs). The CTR analysis shows that, at 0.05 V, the first layer is composed entirely of Pt and, whereas the second atomic layer has an elevated level of Ni (about 52% of Ni as compared to 25% of Ni in the bulk), the third layer has an elevated level of Pt (about 87%) (). Having determined the near-surface structure at 0.05 V, the potential was cycled while the scattered X-ray intensity was measured at a CTR position that is sensitive to surface relaxation and surface roughness (see ).","Both the PtNi{111} surface structure as well as the segregation profile are completely stable over this potential range because the changes in the X-ray scattering signal are fully reversible, and the decrease in intensity at positive potential is consistent with an inward relaxation (contraction) of the surface atomic layer (this result is confirmed by similar measurements at other reciprocal lattice positions). The contraction of Pt surface atoms is induced by the adsorption of oxygenated species, which is determined by the Ni-induced modification of the Pt-skin electronic structure. A direct consequence of contraction of the topmost layer of Pt-skin at the potentials higher than 0.8 V is the increased stability of this surface over corresponding pure Pt{111}, which was additionally confirmed by prolonged cycling In the designated potential range. It is important to point out, that pure Pt catalysts exhibit expansion of the topmost layer at the potential higher than 0.8 V, which is considered to be precursor of Pt dissolution and one of the major limitations in fuel cell technology. This fundamental property of pure Pt catalysts has been completely modified in case of Pt-skin surfaces.","The relationship between the surface electronic properties and the potential-dependent surface coverage by adsorbing species (the adsorption isotherms in ) were established by comparing the experimentally determined position of the d-band centers to the fractional coverage of adsorbed hydrogen (H+e=H, where Hrefers to the underpotentially deposited hydrogen) between 0.05<E<0.4 V, where E is the applied potential, and the hydroxyl species (2HO=OH+H0+e, where OHis the adsorbed hydroxyl molecule) above 0.6 V (). Inspection of the voltammograms in  revealed that on Pt{111}-skin, which consists of the same surface density of Pt atoms as Pt{111}, a negative shift of about 0.15 V in Hformation and positive shift of about 0.1 V in OHformation occurred relative to Pt{111}. In agreement with the onset of adsorption, on PtNi{111}, the fractional coverage by Hand OH(\u0398and \u0398) were dramatically reduced by 50 percent relative to Pt{111}, which is in agreement with the large downshift (0.34 eV) of the d-band center position on the Pt-skin structure. As shown In , similar changes occurred for the other two single-crystal surfaces. On the Pt{100}-skin, \u0398was reduced by about 15 percent relative to Pt{100}, and \u0398was reduced by about 25 percent. On PtNi{100}, small but clearly discernable decreases in \u0398of about 10% and the fractional coverage by OH(\u0398) of about 20 percent were observed relative to Pt{110}.","To quantitatively describe these effects, DFT calculations were performed using pseudopotentials and a plane-wave basis set on the adsorption of OH and HO at 0.25 monolayer coverage on modeled Pt{111} surfaces, with second atomic layers containing 0 or 50 percent Ni atoms. In acid solutions, OHwould react with H and form HO on the catalyst surface. The change in the reversible potential \u0394U\u00b0 of the above reaction on Pt{111} resulting from sublayer Ni atoms is\n\n\u0394(OH)(OH)(OH)(HO)]\/\u2003\u2003(1)\n","Here, E(OH), E(HO), E(OH), and E(HO)are the adsorption energies of OH and HO on Pt{111} with or without sublayer Ni atoms, respectively, and F is the Faraday constant. The DFT calculations show a positive shift of \u0394U\u00b0=0.10 V when the sublayer has 50% Ni atoms. The experiment and theory substantially correspond and demonstrate an electronic effect of subsurface Ni on the Pt\u2014OH chemical bonding.","The ORR is a multielectron reaction (\u00bdO+2H+2e=HO) that may include a number of elementary steps involving different reaction intermediates. The rate of the ORR can be expressed as:\n\n(1\u2212\u0398)exp(\u2212\u03b2)exp(\u2212\u0394)\u2003\u2003(2)\n","where i is the measured current; n, F, K, E, x, \u03b2, \u03b3, and R are constants; cis the concentration of Oin the solution, \u0398is the total surface coverage by adsorbed spectator species [hydroxyl and anions; for example, OH(\u0398) and specifically adsorbed anions (\u0398)]; \u0394Gis the Gibbs energy of adsorption of reactive intermediates, and T is temperature. In the derivation of Equation 2, it is assumed that (i) the ORR takes place on electrodes that are modified by OH, anions, etc., and (ii) the reactive intermediates (Oand HO) are adsorbed to low coverage (i.e., they are not a substantial part of \u0398)","Based on these assumptions, the kinetics of Oreduction are determined by the number of free Pt sites available for the adsorption of O(the 1\u2212\u0398term in Equation 2) and by the \u0394Gof Oand reaction intermediates (the \u0394Gterm in Equation 2) on metal surfaces precovered by OH. This reaction pathway and rate expression is used to first to analyze the effects of electronic properties on the kinetics of the ORR on PtNi{111} and Pt{111} and then, by comparing activities on different PtNi(hkl) surfaces, to establish structure sensitivity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"sub":["3","4 ","OHad ","3","ad ","OHad","upd","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-9C","FIGS. 9A-9C"],"sub":["3","3","3","ad ","2 ","3"]},"To reveal the role of the electronic structure in ORR kinetic, electrodes with the same surface morphology are compared. The most pronounced effect was observed on the {111} surfaces. For the same p(1\u00d71) arrangement of the topmost layer, the same surface atomic density, and the same surface composition (100 percent Pt) but for a different electronic structure (|\u0394d}|=0.34 eV, where |\u0394d}| is the d-band center shift), the ORR is enhanced by a factor of 10 on Pt{111}-skin relative to that on Pt{111}. Given that extended Pt surfaces have 5 to 10 times the activity per surface Pt atoms than the state-of-the-art Pt\/C catalysts that are currently used in the PEMFC (about 0.2 mA\/cmat 0.9V), a total of a 90-fold enhancement in Pt{111}-skin over Pt\/C has been achieved.","In a preferred embodiment because the PtNi{111}-skin surface exhibits the highest catalytic activity that presently known, this alloy configuration and crystallographic orientation may be disposed on various substrates to obtain the desired enhancements in a fuel cell such as improved activity, stability and lower Pt content. This would reduce the current value of specific power density in a PEMFC of about 1.0 g of Pt per kW of Pt without loss in cell voltage, while maintaining the maximum power density (W\/cm). Experiments demonstrate the ability to create and control the Pt-skin surface as well as nanosegregated near surface formations in a series of Pt-multi-metallic alloys with transition metals. Multi-metallic fuel cell catalysts may employ annealing as a key step in engineering of nanosegregated surfaces with superior catalytic properties.","The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed, and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments, and with various modifications, as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C"],"sub":["3","0 ","3","0 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2D"],"sub":["3","3","3"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3C"],"sub":["4 ","3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"sub":["3","4 "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":["3","oxide "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9C"],"sub":["4 ","3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
