---
title: Method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor with a small emitter-to-base spacing
abstract: The present invention refers to a method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor comprising: preparing a patterned emitter metal on an emitter epi layer of a HBT epi structure on a substrate; preparing an emitter epitaxy below the emitter metal; applying a resist layer on the top surface covering the emitter metal and emitter epitaxy, and the base layer; applying lithography leaving the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal covered by the resist vertically with a width pand leaving a pattern according to the mask in the resist; depositing base metal on the entire surface; and removing the remaining resist and the base metal covering the resist defining a base metal, the base metal being spaced from the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal by a distance xfrom 0.05 μm to 0.7 μm. The present invention refers to a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor as prepared by this method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07851319&OS=07851319&RS=07851319
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 07851319
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080506
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","REFERENCE NUMERALS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES","Example 1","Image Reversal Lithography Process","Example 2","Positive Lithography Process"],"p":["This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/966,219 filed Oct. 15, 2004, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,396,731.","This invention was made with government support under Contract No. F33615-02-C-1286 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in this invention.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates to a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT) and a method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT).","2. Description of Related Art","The use of self-aligned contacts in the HBT process is to minimize the base access resistance of the device. The use of this technique is known in that fabrication of early HBTs utilized contact lithography or early broadband wafer stepper systems for device fabrication. These systems are capable of limited layer-to-layer registration and therefore, the only technique available to minimize contact spacing was to employ the technique of self-aligned contacts. Large circuit demonstrating yield of known devices is described in T. P. Broekaert, W. Ng, J. F. Jensens, D, Yap, D. L. Persechini, S. Bourgholtaer, C. H. Fields, Y. K. Brown-Boegeman, B. Shi, and R. H. Walden, \u201cInP-HBT Optoelectronic Integrated Circuits for Photonic Anaolog-to-digital Conversion\u201d, IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 36, No. 9, September 2001, pp. 1335-1342, which is incorporated herein by reference.","While self-aligned HBT devices do demonstrate lower base resistance, this technique is prone to variations in device Beta due to lateral diffusion of minority carriers in the base and recombination at the base metal (BMET) contact which leads to variations in the base current of these devices. Since variations in base current lead to variations in Beta, the HBTs fabricated using self-aligned contacts demonstrate a large range of measured Beta.","A description of general HBT devices can be found in Jensen, J. F.; Stanchina, W. E.; Metzger, R. A.; Rensch, D. B.; Pierce, M. W.; Kargodorian, T. V.; Allen, Y. K., \u201cAlInAs\/GaInAs HBT IC technology\u201d, Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, 1990, Proceedings of the IEEE 1990, 13-16 May 1990, Pages:18.2\/1-18.2\/4, which is incorporated herein by reference.","Another general description of a HBT device is disclosed by Hafizi, M.; Stanchina, W. E.; Sun, H.C., \u201cSubmicron fully self-aligned AlInAs\/GaInAs HBTs for low-power applications\u201d, Device Research Conference, 1995. Digest. 1995 53rd Annual, 19-21 Jun. 1995, Pages: 80-81, which is incorporated herein by reference.","Jensen, J. F.; Stanchina, W. E.; Metzger, R. A.; Rensch, D. B.; Allen, Y. K.; Pierce, M. W.; Kargodorian, T. V, \u201cHigh speed dual modulus dividers using AlinAs-GainAs HBT IC technology\u201d, Gallium Arsenide Integrated Circuit (GaAs IC) Symposium, 1990. Technical Digest 1990, 12th Annual, 7-10 Oct. 1990, Pages 41-44 describe a general HBT device as well, which is incorporated herein by reference.","Base-emitter shorts are a leading limitation to HBT IC yield. Shorts due to metal spiting during the self-aligned base metal deposition occurs in about 1 in 600 transistors and limits current HBT IC yield to below 2000 transistors. The use of non-self-aligned emitter-base contacts eliminates the possibility of shorting of this type.","In HBTs designed for high-speed applications, current gain is not determined solely by recombination in the bulk of the base epitaxy layer. Both surface and bulk components of base current combine to decrease the overall device current gain. InP HBTs known in the state of the art employ self-aligned base-emitter structures to reduce the extrinsic base resistance and the base-collector junction capacitance. This alignment technique results in narrow contact spacing and potentially large values of surface recombination. Handbook of Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors, W. Liu, 1998 Wiley & Sons,  & - shows that Beta is extremely sensitive to the spacing of the emitter and base contacts for values closer than about 1500 \u212b. In this range, minor variations in wet etch isotropy or in metal deposition source angle could lead to wildly varying values of Beta. In a self-aligned HBT, the emitter-base spacing can even approach zero.","The mechanism for reduction and variation in Beta is shown in .  shows that electrons, which are emitted by the emitter epi layer , migrate through the base layer  to the collector layer . A minority of electrons however laterally diffuses and does not reach the collector layer  and instead migrates to the base metal . Any electron that reaches the base metal  instead of collector layer  causes reduction and variation in device Beta.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 6","FIG. 11","FIG. 6"],"b":["4","3","2","3","4","4","4","3","3","4","4","3","1","3","2","3","4","4","3","3","3","4","4","3","3","1"]},"In a further process step the emitter epi layer  is etched off to yield an emitter epitaxy  below and in line with emitter metal .  shows an emitter epitaxy  below and in line with the emitter metal , wherein the emitter epitaxy has an undercut \u0394. The undercut \u0394 is obtained by two etch process steps, a wet etch and a dry etch. The undercut \u0394 is necessary for devices according to the prior art between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy  as shown in . The emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  form a pedestal. In a next step a photoresist layer  is applied on the base layer  covering the base layer  and emitter epitaxy  and emitter metal  as shown in .","The following process is carried out according to image reversal photolithography as follows. The photoresist layer  is irradiated by light  through a mask . The mask  covers the area of the emitter metal  in excess, which is not irradiated. After the irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer , which was irradiated through the mask  becomes insensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist , which was covered and therefore not irradiated is sensitive and can be removed as shown in . After removing the sensitive area of the photoresist  part of the base layer , the emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  are laid free and are not covered by the photoresist layer  as shown in . In the next step base metal  is applied on the entire top surface as shown in . In the next step the photoresist  is removed together with the base metal  on top of the photoresist  as shown in . The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy  below and in line with emitter metal  is covered by the base metal . The base metal  has a certain distance to the emitter epitaxy  in order to avoid a shorting between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy . Since the emitter epitaxy  has the undercut A a shorting between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy  is avoided. However, due to the undercut A of the emitter epitaxy , the contact area between the emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  is reduced.","It is desirable to prepare a device which reduces shorting between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy . There is a need for a device that solves the recurring problem of low and varying values of current gain (Beta) in current state-of-the-art HBT devices. There is further a need to solve the problem of variations in HBT Beta from wafer to wafer, variations in HBT Beta within a single wafer and from wafer to wafer. Base emitter shorts, which occur in about 1\/600 transistors, lead poor line yield of HBT wafers that needs to be improved.","The present invention provides a method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor. The method comprises in uninterrupted sequence: preparing a patterned emitter metal on an emitter epi layer of a HBT epi structure on a substrate; preparing an emitter epitaxy disposed exclusively below the emitter metal; depositing a base metal layer on an exposed top surface; applying a resist on the base metal layer; applying a lithography mask covering a peripheral edge of the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal with a width Pand leaving a pattern according to the lithography mask in the resist; removing portions of the base metal layer not covered by resist; and removing remaining resist, the base metal being spaced from the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal by a distance X, wherein the distance Xranges from 0.05 \u03bcm to 0.7 \u03bcm.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0001","num":"0050"},"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0002","num":"0051"},"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0003","num":"0052"},"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0004","num":"0053"},"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0005","num":"0054"},"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0006","num":"0055"},"b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0007","num":"0056"},"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0008","num":"0057"},"b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0009","num":"0058"},"b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0010","num":"0059"},"b":"10"}]}}}},"The base metal  is placed according to the invention at least some multiple of a diffusion length (L) away from the emitter  in order to avoid reduction and variation in device Beta. This is accomplished in self-aligned (SA) HBTs by a method of wet etching of the emitter pedestal (emitter metal  and emitter epitaxy ) to move the emitter epi layer further under the EMET pattern . The present invention provides a method of lithography to control this emitter-to-base spacing and to minimize the diffusion of electrons.","Two-terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three self-aligned HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three-inch InP wafer as shown in . The top three curves (I, II, III) plot the collector current and show the variation in device turn-on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves (IV, V, VI) are the measured base current of the devices, which shows the large variation in leakage current across the wafer for these self-aligned devices.","Two-terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three non-self-aligned (NSA) HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three-inch InP wafer as shown in . The device measurements plotted here were taken from devices adjacent to the three from . The top three curves (I, II, III) plot the collector current and show that these devices demonstrate a great improvement in minimizing the variation in device turn-on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves (IV, V, VI) are the measured base current of the devices which shows significantly lower leakage current as well as reduced variation across the wafer for these non-self-aligned devices. The reduced leakage current demonstrated by these NSA devices leads to higher gain and usable gain at extremely low power levels.","The unity gain cutoff frequency (F) for the six devices from  and  were measured and are shown in . Extrapolation of ft was done from a single frequency point s-parameter measurement assuming an h21 versus frequency slope of \u221220 dB\/decade. This plot shows that the NSA devices operated at higher frequencies, compared to the self-aligned devices, across the entire range of current or power levels.","The sole difference between SA and NSA transistors is a simple change to a single layer in the device fabrication process. The starting material is preferably a layer structure, which comprises a base . An emitter epi layer  is deposited or grown on the base . An emitter metal layer (EMET)  is deposited on the emitter epi layer . Underneath the base layer  a collector layer  and below the collector layer  a subcollector layer  is deposited on the substrate . The described layer structure beginning with substrate , and on the substrate preferably the following layers are deposited: subcollector , collector , base layer , emitter epi layer  and emitter metal layer  is a preferred starting material for manufacturing SA and NSA transistors. This structure is called the HBT epi layer structure.","Preparing of Self-Aligned HBT by the Additive Method","The starting layer structure as shown in is used for the method according to this preferred embodiment. does not show an undercut A of the emitter epitaxy . The process for yielding emitter epitaxy  involves only dry etch. The step of wet etch is omitted. The wet etch process leads to the undercut \u0394 of the emitter epitaxy  which is necessary according to the prior art to avoid shorting between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy . The process of the present invention makes it possible to deposit the base metal  on the base  wherein a controlled distance between the base metal  and the emitter epitaxy  is reached to avoid shorting as shown in .","A photoresist layer  is applied on the top surface layer. Two different methods can be preferably applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer , image reversal photography and positive photolithography. Image reversal photography is shown in  and already explained in the above in regard to . The photoresist layer  is irradiated by light  through a mask . The mask  leaves the area of photoresist  covering the emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  plus the later emitter-to base spacing xon the left and right sight open to be irradiated. After the irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer , which was irradiated through the mask  becomes insensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist , which was covered and therefore not irradiated is sensitive and can be removed as shown in  and .","The other method, positive photolithography is shown in . The photoresist layer  is irradiated by light  through a mask . The mask  covers the area of the emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  plus the later emitter-to base spacing xon the left and right sight. After the irradiation, the surface of the photoresist layer , which was irradiated through the mask , becomes sensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist , which was covered and therefore not irradiated, stays insensitive and cannot be removed.","According to both methods the mask  is carefully designed so that after removing the non-irradiated photoresist  in the image reversal photography and after removing the irradiated photoresist  in the positive photolithography, parts of the base layer  are still covered by photoresist layer . Both methods, image reversal photolithography and positive photolithography yield a structure as shown in . The two methods use a positive or negative mask and require different photoresist material. Both methods, image reversal photolithography and positive photolithography are well known in the art. Both methods are described in Microlithography, Micromachining, and Microfabrication, Vol. 1: Microlithography, Editor P. Rai-Choudhury, 1997 SPIE Optical Engineering Press, Bellingham, Wash. and Semiconductor Lithography Principles, Practices, and Materials, Wayne M. Moreau, 1988 Plenum Press, New York, which are both incorporated herein by reference.","It is very important for the present invention that the emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  are not laid free and vertically and horizontally covered by the photoresist layer  as shown in . The width pof the vertical coverage of the emitter metal  with photoresist  predetermines the later emitter-to-base spacing x. The thickness of the vertical coverage of the emitter metal  predetermines the emitter-to-base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the entire top surface becomes covered by base metal  as shown in . In the next step the photoresist  is removed together with the base metal  on top of the photoresist  as shown in .","A comparison between the SA design of the state of the art in  to the NSA design prepared by the method invention in  shows that an emitter-to-base spacing xis created by the method according to the present invention. The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy  below and in line with emitter metal  is not covered by the base metal  according to this embodiment of the invention.","Preparing of Self-Aligned HBT by the Subtractive Method","The same starting layer structure as shown in is used for the method according to this preferred embodiment, wherein a base metal  layer is applied on the top surface as shown in . Then a photoresist layer  is applied on the base metal  layer as shown in . Two different methods can be applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer : the image reversal photography as shown in  and the positive photolithography as shown . Both methods are described in the preceding sections in regard to  and . According to both methods the mask  is carefully designed so that after removing the non-irradiated photoresist  in image reversal photolithography and after removing the irradiated photoresist  in the positive photolithography, parts of the base layer  are still covered by photoresist layer . The distance pbetween the edge of the photoresist  covering the base metal  and emitter epitaxy  and the emitter metal  as shown in  predetermines the emitter-to-base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the base metal layer , which is not covered by photoresist  is removed, wherein base metal  covered by photoresist  stays on the base  as shown in . In the next step the photoresist  is removed as shown in . The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy  below and in line with emitter metal  is not covered by the base metal  according to this embodiment of the invention.","The Non-Self-Aligned Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor according to the present invention as shown in , and  and  can be prepared by both methods of the present invention shown in  and .","Non-Self-Aligned HBT Devices with Different Emitter Metal to Base Metal Spacing (X)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["0","3","4","5","6","8","10"],"sub":["D","D","D","D","D","D","D","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"],"sub":["t ","C "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 27","sub":["max ","C ","max ","max ","max","max"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 28","sub":"D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 29","sub":["t ","D","t "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 30","sub":["max ","D","max ","D ","max","max "]},"The preferred spacing between the emitter metal and the base metal (X), which means between the Emitter pedestal and the closest edge of the base metal (X), is from 0.05 \u03bcm to 0.6 \u03bcm, preferably from 0.05 \u03bcm to 0.5 \u03bcm, more preferably from 0.05 \u03bcm to 0.3 \u03bcm and most preferably from 0.05 \u03bcm to 0.15 \u03bcm.","The following preferred materials for metals and epitaxy are preferably used within the present invention. Any of the materials from each list can be used for each. That is, any metal on the list will work for any of the three contacts and any of the epi materials listed will work for any of the three epitaxy layers.","One or more of the following metals or metal alloys: InGaAs, InAlAs, InAs, InSb, AlInGaAs, InGaSb, GaAs, InP, InGaP, Si or SiGe can preferably be used as Emitter Epitaxy or Base Epitaxy or Collector Epitaxy.","One or more of the following metals or metal alloys: Titanium, Molybdenum, Aluminum, Gold, Platinum, Copper, Gold-Germanium, Nickel, Tantalum or Tungsten can preferably be used as Emitter Metal or Base Metal or Collector Metal.","One or more of the following metals or metal alloys: Silicon, SiGe, InP, GaAs, SiC, Quartz or Sapphire can preferably be used as Substrates.","Both light (photolithography) and even electron beam (e-beam) lithography are applicable to the invention here. With photolithography there is a standard chrome-on-quartz mask used, but any general mask works. The lithography could be either positive photolithography or image reversal photolithography. Both are applicable.","The following are examples for the process according to the present invention.","A photoresist layer of 1 \u03bcm was applied on the top surface of a layer structure (wafer) with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955-1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin-on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 90\u00b0 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was i-line 365 nm. After the irradiation the wafer was baked in an image reversal oven using NHgas at a temperature of 100\u00b0 C. for 90 minutes. Then the entire wafer was exposed to a broadband illumination without a mask to complete the cross-linking process in the photoresist. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 321 (Metal Ion Free) of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in  using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer, then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath, wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .","A photoresist layer of 1 \u03bcm was applied on the top surface of a layer structure (wafer) with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955-1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin-on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 100\u00b0 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was i-line 365 nm. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 26A (Metal Ion Free) of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in  using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer, then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath, wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .","Although the description above contains much specificity, this should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. For example the process described above can involve additional or fewer steps and different priorities of steps.","Thus the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents, rather than by the examples given."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"sub":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 7"],"i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 7"],"i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 12","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 23"],"b":["23","23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 7"],"i":"a. "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 23","FIG. 22","FIG. 16","FIGS. 12-16","FIGS. 17-22","FIG. 16","FIG. 22","FIG. 23","FIG. 24"],"b":["23","23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 25","sub":["c ","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 26","sub":["t ","c ","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 27","sub":["max ","c ","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 28","sub":["D","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 29","sub":["t ","D","D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 30","sub":["max ","D","D"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
