---
title: Facilitated search for online collaboration platform
abstract: In an example embodiment, an online advertising management platform receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The platform displays a toolbar having a textbox that allows the user to search for data relating to all accounts to which the user has access. The platform displays a combo box after the user enters a fixed number of characters in the textbox. The combo box includes a list of descriptions of each data object that is accessible and that is relevant to the fixed number of characters. The platform locates the combo box contiguous to the toolbar over some but not all of the view displaying the data relating to the order. The platform displays a data object, rather than a page of search results, after the user clicks a description of a data object from the combo box.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08006200&OS=08006200&RS=08006200
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08006200
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/189,083 entitled \u201cUtility Toolbar for Online Collaboration Platform\u201d, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/189,088 entitled \u201cNotification Controls for Online Collaboration Platform\u201d, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/189,091 entitled \u201cWindow Overlay for Online Collaboration Platform\u201d, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/189,100 entitled \u201cSearching by Object Category for Online Collaboration Platform\u201d, filed contemporaneously with this application. The disclosures of these related applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.","Collaboration platforms are an emerging category of computer software. Typically, such platforms offer a set of software components and services that enable individuals to find each other and the information that they need to be able to communicate and work together to achieve a common business goal. In some implementations, the elements of a collaboration platform which are domain-agnostic might include messaging (e.g., emails, calendaring and scheduling, and contacts), team collaboration (e.g., file synchronization, task\/project management, and full-text search), social computing tools (e.g., wiki, blog, tagging, RSS, and shared bookmarks), and real-time communication (e.g., presence, instant messaging, application\/desktop sharing, and audio\/video\/web conferencing). Online implementations of collaboration platforms might be colloquially referred to as Enterprise 2.0, by analogy to Web 2.0.","A portal has designed an online collaboration platform in the advertising domain. The platform is called an advertising management platform and it can include an ad network, an ad server, an ad exchange, enterprise CRM functionality (e.g., for target marketing and account management), and enterprise DSS (decision support system) functionality (e.g., a digital dashboard), among other components. An ad network is a group of sites that a portal or a media company can sell collectively to an advertiser. An ad network might sell text ads, display ads, video ads, ads in video, or other advertising inventory. Publishers use an ad server to decide which ads to show and to help manage their advertising inventory, while advertisers and agencies use an ad server to simplify the ad-reporting process. In an ad exchange, buyers and sellers trade advertising inventory in an online central market in real time, like in a stock exchange. Networks put advertising inventory into the ad exchange to be bought, most often by another seller, who needs the impressions to fulfill an advertiser request. Through the ad exchange, buyers can gain access to a pool of inventory that might not have been available through any one vendor.","The workflows in such a platform tend to be complex, since they require a large amount of human-computer interaction from users assuming myriad roles with varying access rights to the data maintained by the platform. Consequently, there is a need for a graphical user interface (e.g., a model-view-controller) that employs personalization and\/or contextualization to facilitate the efficient and effective use of the platform.","In an example embodiment, a computer-implemented method is described for an online advertising management platform. In the method's first operation, the platform receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. In the method's second operation, the platform displays a toolbar. The toolbar includes a textbox that allows the user to search for data relating to all accounts to which the user has access. In the method's third operation, the platform displays a combo box after the user enters a fixed number of characters in the textbox. The combo box includes a list of descriptions of each data object maintained in the platform that is accessible and that is relevant to the fixed number of characters. In the method's fourth operation, the platform displays a data object, rather than a page of search results, after the user clicks a description of a data object from the combo box.","In another example embodiment, a computer-implemented method is described for an online advertising management platform. In the method's first operation, the platform receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The account includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. In the method's second operation, the platform displays a view in a graphical user interface including a window displaying some or all of the data relating to the order. In the method's third operation, the platform displays a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a textbox that allows the user to search for data relating to all accounts to which the user has access. In the method's fourth operation, the platform displays a combo box after the user enters a fixed number of characters in the textbox. The combo box includes a list of descriptions of each data object maintained in the platform that is accessible and that is relevant to the fixed number of characters. In the method's fifth operation, the platform locates the combo box contiguous to the toolbar over some but not all of the view displaying the data relating to the order so that the user can see both the combo box and the view at the same time. In the method's sixth operation, the platform displays a data object, rather than a page of search results, after the user clicks a description of a data object from the combo box.","In another example embodiment, persistent executable logic is described for an online advertising management platform. The executable logic receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The account includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. The executable logic displays a view in a graphical user interface including a window displaying some or all of the data relating to the order. The executable logic displays a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a textbox that allows the user to search for data relating to all accounts to which the user has access. The executable logic displays a combo box after the user enters a fixed number of characters in the textbox. The combo box includes a list of descriptions of each data object maintained in the advertising management platform that is accessible and that is relevant to the fixed number of characters. The executable logic locates the combo box contiguous to the toolbar over some but not all of the view displaying the data relating to the order so that the user can see both the combo box and the view at the same time. The executable logic displays a data object, rather than a page of search results, after the user clicks a description of a data object from the combo box.","Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which illustrates by way of example the principles of the invention.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the example embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances, process operations and implementation details have not been described in detail, if already well known.","In a use case for the online advertising management platform, a newspaper with both print and online publications might be a member of the advertising network associated with the platform. An account representative for the newspaper (e.g., Joe Smith of SG Newspaper) might manage the advertising campaigns for several of the newspaper's advertising clients, by regularly logging onto the platform as a user. Additionally, a sales representative for the newspaper (e.g., Dina Joseph of SG Newspaper) might track the progress of a campaign for an advertising client, by occasionally logging onto the platform as a user. It will be appreciated that the advertising campaign might involve online display advertising in the online edition of the newspaper (e.g., graphics-heavy banners and column ads), display advertising in the print edition of the newspaper, contextual (or search) advertising on the results page for the portal's search engine, display advertising on the website of another member of the advertising network, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["101","103","102","101","103","103","103","104","103","104","101","101","103","101","103","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","201","200","200","200","202","202","202","202","202"]},"Digital dashboard  includes a horizontal bar  which lists some object categories frequently used by the platform: (a) Orders for an account, which will be discussed below; (b) Creatives (e.g., a graphics file); (c) Inventory (e.g., advertising space in an online newspaper); (d) Connections (e.g., between data objects and their attributes); (e) Filters (e.g., for use in searches within the platform); (f) Community (e.g., for exchange of user-group information); and (g) Settings (e.g., for configuration of external interfaces such as GUIs). In an example embodiment, digital dashboard  includes a pane  containing summary accounting information in the form of Gross Revenue from orders accessible by the user (e.g., $1,222,333.00), the Cost from all orders accessible by the user (e.g., $1,200,333.00), and the resulting Profit (e.g., $22,000.00), as a function of time (e.g., Last Week and This Week).","Digital dashboard  also includes a pane  which shows a list summarizing all \u201cAlerts\u201d and \u201cApprovals\u201d relating to orders accessible by the user and a tabbed window labeled \u201cView All Alerts\u201d that allows the user to view each of the alerts accessible by the user rather than just summaries of those alerts. In an example embodiment, digital dashboard  includes two additional views. Pane  includes performance measures such as ePRM or effective revenues per millennium or 1000 page views, impressions, clicks, CTR or click-through rate, and conversions, relating to the advertising network of which the user's publisher (e.g., newspaper) is a member. Pane  includes performance measures (e.g., net revenue and CTR) for the top advertisers among the clients of the user's publisher.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","301","300","202","300","202","302","303","302","300","305","306","307"]},"The number in the tab (e.g., 3) for tabbed window  indicates the number of alerts that have not been dismissed by the user who is logged in, regardless of whether the alerts have been previously dismissed by another user who has access to the order. In this manner, the platform facilitates asynchronous collaboration by a team of users, e.g., a publisher's employees and agents. In an example embodiment, the platform does not automatically dismiss an alert that has been read, so that the number in the tab will not change if the user reads an alert but does not dismiss the alert. However, the platform will not display a notification balloon  if all alerts have been read by the current user.","Also, in an example embodiment, the balloon  is displayed for a fixed period of time whose duration is proportional to the priority of the highest priority alert that has not been read by the user who is logged in. Building on the example above, a balloon might be displayed for seven seconds if it concerned an ad that was editorially declined, whereas a balloon might be displayed for only five seconds if it concerned an ad group that was underperforming by not serving enough impressions.","In view , the toolbar  includes a tabbed window  labeled \u201cHelp & Tips (1)\u201d. The number in the tab (e.g., 1) for tabbed window  indicates the number of tips that have not been read by the user who is logged in, regardless of whether the tips have been previously read by another user who has access to the order. In an example embodiment, the platform might automatically dismiss a tip once it has been read, e.g., opened. In an alternative example embodiment, the platform might allow a user to dismiss a tip using GUI views and controls similar to those that allow a user to dismiss an alert, as described elsewhere. A tip might recommend an action or practice to improve the performance of the order's advertising. Tabbed window  might also provide a link label to the platform's online help, which might comprise help with respect to both substantive (e.g., workflow) and technical (e.g., user interface) matters.","As mentioned above, view  also includes pane , entry boxes , and pane . In an example embodiment, pane  might include \u201cOrder Details\u201d such as the status of the order (e.g., active), the schedule for the order (Dec. 1, 2007-Jan. 31, 2008), and the budget for the order (e.g., $20,000 with $2,000 available), as well as the sales team and contacts for the order. Entry boxes  allow a user to create a filter for viewing data related to an order. In , the user has created a filter that shows the performance for an order based on the order's ad groups for a particular time period (e.g., the last 14 days: Nov. 14, 2007-Nov. 30, 2007). Also, as shown in , view  allows a user to save a filter that the user has created and use it at a subsequent time. In this regard, see the dropdown list labeled \u201cChoose a Filter\u201d and the labeled button \u201cMore Filters\u201d. Pane  in  shows the results of applying the filter shown in entry boxes  to the data relating to an order. Pane  includes a table showing particular performance statistics (e.g., impressions, clicks, CTR, eCPC or estimated cost per click, and eCPM or cost per thousand impressions) for particular ad groups (e.g., \u201cSports-Males\u201d, \u201cEnd of Year Females\u201d, \u201cEnd of Year Video\u201d, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","401","400","402","403","402"]},"Below each alert displayed in the list in tabbed window , is a horizontal menu  which allows the user to: (a) read more about the alert, e.g., the details of the alert, as opposed to simply the alert's summary; (b) take action with respect to the alert, e.g., by removing offensive text or imagery from an ad that was editorially declined; or (c) dismiss the alert. Next to each message in the list in tabbed window  is a warning sign  (e.g., an exclamation mark in a triangle), whose color might communicate additional information about the alert, in an example embodiment. For example, in the list in window , messages 1 and 2 might have a warning sign that is red to indicate that a workflow is not proceeding per plan (e.g., \u201cOrder [ABC_Energy_Summer_Campaign] has these undelivered ads [Summer_Energy468\u00d760, Summer_Pow125\u00d7125]\u201d and \u201cAd [ABC_Summer_POW_gif] has been suspended\u201d, respectively), whereas message 3 might have a warning sign that is black to indicate a milestone in a workflow relating to an order (e.g., \u201cOrder [ABC_Energy_Summer_Campaign] has started\u201d). It will be appreciated that ABC_Summer_POW_gif might be a creative in the form of a display ad implemented in the GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) file format, whereas Summer_Energy468\u00d760 and Summer_Pow125\u00d7125 might be display ads implemented in a bitmap format, in an example embodiment.","At the bottom of list in tabbed window  is a link label  that allows a user to go to a global alert page which lists all of alerts that the user is allowed to access, regardless of the order to which each of the alerts relates. It will be appreciated that the alerts listed in the list in tabbed window  are context-dependent and relate to the order data displayed outside the boundaries of tabbed window , e.g., the order data for the ABC Energy Summer Campaign. It will also be appreciated that the platform locates tabbed window  contiguous to the utility toolbar in view  so that tabbed window  does not completely obstruct the displayed order data for the ABC Energy Summer Campaign, allowing a user to see and work with both the order data and the list in tabbed window  at the same time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","501","502","502","503","502","504","504","500","502","502","500","502","502"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":["600","601","602","601","601","600","613","612","611"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","701","700","700","703","702","703","704"]},"In an example embodiment, a user might enter a fixed number of characters from a search term into textbox . Then the platform might display a list of data objects which are relevant to the characters in combo box . The list might include a description of each relevant data object maintained (e.g., persistently stored) by the platform, along with the data object's object category. For example, as shown in , if the user enters \u201ctoyota\u201d into textbox , the platform might display \u201ctoyota ad male 01.08\u201d in combo box , among other data objects. As might be guessed, the object category for \u201ctoyota ad male 01.08\u201d is an \u201cad\u201d. If the user clicks on the object, the platform might display the ad itself, rather than a page with search results. In an example embodiment, other searchable object categories might include orders, users, accounts, creatives, ads, linked companies, sites, line items, ad groups, rate cards, reports, and approvals.","In an example embodiment, the platform might store the data objects in a server accessed through AJAX techniques and launch a search for data objects after the user has enter the fixed number of characters, e.g., 3, 4, 5, etc. The platform might conduct a new search of the server each time the user enters another search-term character, in order to generate a list of increasing relevancy. It will be appreciated that AJAX (asynchronous JavaScript and XML) is a set of interrelated web development techniques used for creating interactive web application programs. Using these techniques, a web application program can retrieve data from a server asynchronously in the background without interfering with the display and behavior of the page that is currently displayed. Typically, a web application retrieves data from a server using the XMLHttpRequest API (application programming interface) or through the use of Remote Scripting in browsers that do not support that API. Despite the acronym AJAX, the use of JavaScript, XML, and asynchrony is not required in all AJAX implementations. It will also be appreciated that the data objects are data objects used in the platform, not prior search terms or queries, as might be the case in a web application such as Yahoo! Search's Instant Search. However, in an example embodiment, the platform might use a library based on Instant Search in order to populate the list of data objects displayed by combo box .","In an example embodiment, the platform locates combo box  contiguous to the utility toolbar in view  so that combo box  does not completely obstruct the displayed order data for Toyota Holidays, allowing a user to see and work with both the order data and the list of data objects in the combo box  at the same time. However, the data objects on that list might not relate to the order data, but instead relate to other orders and\/or accounts to which the user has access.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIGS. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"i":["a ","b ","a "],"b":["8","800","700","800","801","802","801","801","803","804","805"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"i":["b ","a"],"b":["810","811","812","812","813","814","815","801","810","816","816","816","802"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"i":["a ","a ","b","a","a. "],"b":["900","816","900","901","902","902","906","903","904","905","906","903","904","905","900"]},"On page , the user has entered a value of \u201cProctor & Gamble\u201d in entry box , a value of \u201cJones\u201d in entry box , and a value of \u201c342343566\u201d in entry box . If the user then clicks the button labeled \u201cSearch\u201d on page , the platform returns and displays search results that are orders relevant to the search term (e.g., \u201cToyota\u201d) which meet the restrictions created by the entered values in entry boxes , , and , e.g., the advertiser is Proctor & Gamble, the sales rep is Jones, and the order id is 342343566. It will be appreciated that such a restricted search ordinarily requires the use of an additional page dedicated to displaying entry boxes for a generalized advanced search.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"i":["b ","b ","b","b","b. "],"b":["910","816","910","911","912","912","916","913","914","915","916","913","914","910"]},"On page , the user has entered a value of \u201c300\u00d7250\u201d in entry box  and a value of \u201cRich Media\u201d in entry box . If the user then clicks the button labeled \u201cSearch\u201d on page , the platform returns and displays search results that are ads relevant to the search term (e.g., \u201cToyota\u201d) which meet the restrictions created by the entered values in entry boxes  and , e.g., the ad size is 300\u00d7250 and the format is rich media. Here again, it will be appreciated that such a restricted search ordinarily requires the use of an additional page dedicated to displaying entry boxes for a generalized advanced search.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1001","1002","1003","1004"]},"The process continues in operation , where the platform receives a login that identifies a subsequent user (e.g., sales representative Dina Joseph in the use case above) as having access rights to same account. In operation , the platform displays a view with the order's data and the standardized toolbar with a tab showing a count of the informational messages that relate to the order's data and that have not been dismissed by the subsequent user, as opposed to the prior user. Then in operation , the platform displays a tabbed window with a list of informational messages including the particular informational message dismissed by the prior user, when the subsequent user clicks on the tab. As suggested earlier, this process facilitates asynchronous collaboration by a team of users.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1101","1102","1103"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1201","1202","1203","1204","1203","1204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1301","1302","1303","1304"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1401","1402","1403","1404","1405"]},"The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand-held devices, microprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.","With the above embodiments in mind, it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer-implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. Further, the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms, such as producing, identifying, determining, or comparing.","Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, such as the carrier network discussed above, or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular, various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.","The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data, which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives, network attached storage (NAS), read-only memory, random-access memory, CD-ROMs, CD-Rs, CD-RWs, DVDs, Flash, magnetic tapes, and other optical and non-optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.","Although example embodiments of the invention have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the following claims. For example, the utility toolbar might be implemented as a browser toolbar add-on rather than as part of the platform itself. Accordingly, the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein, but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the following claims. In the following claims, elements and\/or steps do not imply any particular order of operation, unless explicitly stated in the claims or implicitly required by the specification and\/or drawings."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 8","i":["a ","b "],"b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 9","i":["a ","b "],"b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
