---
title: Reverse charging service
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for facilitating mobile communication between a calling party and a called party. Aspects of the present invention include establishing, via a service node, mobile communications upon receiving a response, from the called party, to a mobile communication request made by the calling party to the service node, and further include facilitating, via the service node, charging the called party for the established mobile communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155621&OS=08155621&RS=08155621
owner: Roamware, Inc.
number: 08155621
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/935,350 titled \u201cCollect Call for GSM Networks Called Party Pays for Mobile Originated Calls\u201d filed Aug. 8, 2007, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.","The present invention generally relates to mobile communication. More specifically, the invention relates to enabling mobile activities for a calling party without charging him for the same.","Mobile communication during roaming contributes a major percentage of a network operator's revenue and specifically, voice traffic and SMS traffic contributes even better percentage of the network operator's margin. With increasing competition and regulatory control, network operators look for solutions to enhance both local and roaming revenues.","Mobile subscribers can be both prepaid and postpaid. Generally, prepaid subscribers are in majority since the prepaid services are relatively easier and quicker to avail of as compared to postpaid services. Usually, the network operators restrict their pre-paid subscribers from initiating calls while roaming in other networks. This is due to the network operator's lack of ability to charge their pre-paid subscribers in real-time while roaming. Some existing approaches that provide ability to handle prepaid outbound roaming to the network operator includes Customized Application for Mobile Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) service and Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) call back service. However, CAMEL services require a home network operator and a visited network operator to have CAMEL support and a CAMEL roaming agreement with each other. Also, USSD call back approach does not provide a good user experience for initiating outgoing calls. Further, one limitation of both these approaches is that in case the pre-paid subscriber has no balance in his pre-paid account, then the pre-paid subscriber cannot make calls while roaming, unless he recharges his pre-paid account while roaming. Further, there may be situations when postpaid subscribers would not like to make calls and send SMS during roaming to avoid airtime charges. This may result in loss of potential revenues for the network operators.","Network operators face similar problems even for local subscribers. Majority of total subscriber base of networks operators are pre-paid subscribers. These pre-paid subscribers are cost-conscious, e.g., they minimize their call activities to minimize cost. Additionally, if these local pre-paid subscribers have no balance in their pre-paid accounts, then cannot make calls, which again results in the loss of potential revenues for the network operators. Further, when the outgoing calls and outgoing SMS for a postpaid subscriber are barred, then the post paid subscriber cannot make calls and send SMS, which again results in the loss of potential revenue for the network operators.","In accordance with the foregoing, there is a need in the art of a system, a method, and a computer product for allowing pre-paid and post-paid subscribers to be able to make calls and send SMS without being charged for the same.","The present invention is directed towards a method for facilitating mobile communication between a calling party and a called party. The method includes establishing the mobile communication, by a service node, upon receiving a response from the called party for a mobile communication request made by the calling party to the service node. The method further includes facilitating by the service node, charging of the called party for the established mobile communication.","The present invention also presents a system for facilitating mobile communication between a calling party and a called party. The system includes a service node for establishing the mobile communication, upon receiving a response from the called party for a mobile communication request made by the calling party to the service node. Further, the service node facilitates charging of the called party for the established mobile communication.","The present invention also presents provides a computer program product including a computer usable program code for facilitating mobile communication between a calling party and a called party, by establishing the mobile communication, by a service node, upon receiving a response from the called party for a mobile communication request made by the calling party to the service node. Further, the computer program product facilitates by the service node, charging of the called party for the established mobile communication.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, specific numbers, materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one having ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known features may be omitted or simplified, so as not to obscure the present invention. Furthermore, reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic, described in connection with the embodiment, is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. The appearance of the phrase \u201cin an embodiment\u201d, in various places in the specification, does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.","The present invention provides a system, a method, and a computer program product where a home network allows a calling party to initiate mobile communication like Mobile Originated (MO) calls or Short Message Service (SMS) for which a called party pays. This arrangement of mobile communication is hereinafter interchangeably referred to as \u201creverse charge service\u201d, where the charges for the call and SMS by the calling party are collected from the called party.  illustrates a system  for implementing reverse charge service for a subscriber of Home Public Mobile Network (HPMN) , in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. HPMN  includes a service node  that establishes mobile communication between a calling party  (i.e., the subscriber of HPMN ) and a called party  (i.e., a subscriber of same operator as HPMN ), and also facilitates charging called party  for the established mobile communication. Voice calls initiated by calling party  with the help of reverse charge service (i.e., via service node ) to called party , for which called party  pays is hereinafter interchangeably referred to as \u201cCollect Call\u201d. Similarly, the SMSs sent by calling party  with the help of reverse charge service (i.e., via service node ) to called party , for which called party  pays is hereinafter interchangeably referred to as \u201cCollect SMS\u201d. In an embodiment of the present invention, a subscriber of HPMN  first needs to register for the reverse charge service in order to make calls and send SMS that are paid by a called subscriber. Thus, to register the subscriber for the reverse charge service, the subscriber details are provisioned in an application database. The application exposes a standard eXtensible Markup Language (XML) over Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Application Programming Interface (API) which is invoked by HPMN  operator's provisioning system or Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system to provision subscribers in service node . In another embodiment of the present invention, the subscriber does not register for the reverse charge service and avails the reverse charge service on the need basis.","Service node  acts as an active node, and it has its own point codes and Global Titles (GTs). In a first embodiment of the present invention, service node  controls collect calls between calling party  and called party  through Mobile Application Part (MAP) protocol, ISDN User Part (ISUP) protocol or Intelligent Network (IN) protocol. Similarly, in a second embodiment of the present invention, service node  controls collect SMS between calling party  and called party  through MAP protocol or Customized Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) Application Part (CAP) protocol. In an embodiment of the present invention, both calling party  and called party  are subscribers of HPMN 's operator. Further, calling party  and called party  can be either prepaid or postpaid subscribers. In an embodiment of the present invention, calling party  and called party  are both present in HPMN . In another embodiment of the present invention, calling party is present in HPMN  while the called party  is roaming in a Visited Public Mobile Network (VPMN). In yet another embodiment of the present invention, calling party  is roaming in the VPMN and called party  is present in HPMN . In yet another embodiment of the present invention, both calling party  and called party  are roaming in the VPMN. In various embodiments of the present invention, both HPMN  and the VPMN are of the same mobile operator. Further, HPMN  includes:\n\n","In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  communicates with GMSC\/SSF  over ISUP and MAP protocols. Service node  further sends SMS to SMSC  over a Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)\/Internet Protocol (IP). Additionally, service node  communicates with US SD gateway  over an XML and a Short Message Peer-to-Peer (SMPP) protocol. Service node  communicates with prepaid SCP  over CAP and Intelligent Network Application Part (INAP) protocols. Further, service node  communicates with O&M console  over a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["202","104","106","108","108","106","106","104","108","108","104","106","104","108","106","108","106","104","108","108","108"]},"After receiving the response from called party , service node  notifies calling party  about this response. When called party  approves to bear the charges of the mobile communication, service node  establishes mobile communication between calling party  and called party . In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  establishes the mobile communication by first initiating a first call to calling party , then initiating a second call to called party  and finally bridging the first call and the second call in order to connect calling party  with called party . In another embodiment of the present invention, service node  establishes the mobile communication by first initiating the second call to called party , then initiating the first call to calling party , and then bridging the first call and the second call. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, service node  establishes mobile communication by initiating calls to both calling party  and called party  simultaneously, and then bridging the two calls. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  bridges calling party  and called party  via an ISUP  loop back method. Further, service node  configures Calling Line Identification (CLI) that is to be displayed to calling party  and called party . In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  displays the CLI of called party  to calling party  by imitating calling party  that called party 's CLI is a calling party 's number. In another embodiment of the present invention, service node  displays a short code for service node  as the CLI to calling party . Likewise, in an embodiment of the present invention, service node  displays the CLI of calling party  to called party . While, in another embodiment of the present invention, service node  displays the short code for service node  as the CLI to called party .","After the mobile communication has been established between calling party  and called party , service node  charges called party  for the established mobile communication at step . The process of billing called party  is described later in the context of the present invention.","In order to establish mobile communication between calling party  and called party , service node  uses its internal modules.  illustrates an internal architecture of service node  for implementing the reverse charge service, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Service node  includes four functional modules: a user command interface module , a call setup module , an O&M module  and a Call Detail Record (CDR) aggregator module . User command interface module  provides SMS, USSD and IVR interfaces to both calling party  and called party . User command interface module  further provides commands that can be invoked by calling party  to interact with service node . Calling party  can invoke such commands over SMS or USSD. User command interface module  further includes an SMSC interface  and an USSD interface . For sending and receiving commands over SMS, SMSC interface  interacts with SMSC . When calling party  chooses the USSD channel, USSD interface  interacts with USSD gateway  or a Home Location Register (HLR)  of HPMN .","Further, call setup module  implements all signaling and call setup functionality by interacting with GMSC\/SSF  and prepaid SCP  using standard signaling protocols. Call setup module  further includes an ISUP interface , an IN interface , a MAP interface  and an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) interface . ISUP interface  interacts with GMSC\/SSF  for processing ISUP, IN and CAMEL based call setup and tear-down messages. IN interface  interacts with prepaid SCP  using IN and CAMEL protocols for real-time charging of calls. MAP interface  interacts with HLR  using MAP protocol for call setup. IVR interface  is used by calling party  and called party  to interactively setup collect call.","O&M module  provides all functionality needed for operations and maintenance of service node . O&M module  supports SNMP alarms and notifications for all major events occurring in service node . O&M module  includes an SNMP interface  that exposes all critical parameters to O&M console , which uses these parameters for monitoring and querying for health of service node . O&M module  further includes an administrative user interface  that is a bundle of web-based graphical user interface that drive administration applications which can be used by service node 's administrator to configure and control service node 's data and features.","Furthermore, CDR aggregator module  is responsible for generating CDRs for all calls handled by service node . CDR aggregator module  aggregates all call events into CDRs, and then it updates them into a database . The CDR files can then be generated from the database. In an embodiment of the present invention, various kinds of reports are generated using the CDR for further analysis. These CDRs can be used to hand-off call data to a mediation system  for billing purpose.","In an embodiment of the present invention, database  stores a list of valid subscribers (e.g., calling party ) that have registered for the reverse charge service. In an embodiment of the present invention, database  maintains a blacklist of VPMNs that charge airtime for MT calls to calling party , when calling party  is roaming in the VPMN. In another embodiment of the present invention, database  maintains a blacklist of calling parties whose requests for the mobile communication is blocked or rejected by called parties. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, database  maintains a white list of calling parties for which mobile communication is established without the requirement of the approval from called party .","In an embodiment of the present invention, when calling party  is a prepaid subscriber and he does not have sufficient balance to make calls, or when calling party  does not want to bear the expense of the call, or when calling party 's outgoing calls are barred; calling party  initiates collect calls using the interface provided by service node . In order to allow only the prepaid calling party, the prepaid calling party's data is provisioned into service node  using a provisioning module (not shown in ). In another embodiment of the present invention, both prepaid and postpaid calling parties are allowed to initiate calls using service node . In such a case, the data associated with both prepaid and postpaid calling party is not provisioned into service node .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B","b":["106","106","108","401","104","401","401","401","401","402","401","314","404","314","114","406","104","104","401","408","412","401"]},"Thereafter at steps  to , service node  sends a notification to B party by sending a message USSD Notify-B number to HLR  via USSD gateway . At step , this notification message reaches a VLR-B , which further sends the notification message to party B (as VLR-B  is associated with party B). As mentioned above, since a VLR is usually integrated with a MSC that communicate with each other, VLR-B  integrated with its MSC is hereinafter interchangeably referred to as MSC-B\/VLR-B . In an embodiment of the present invention, this notification message is to notify party B that party A wants to initiate a call with party B and that party A has requested party B to bear the charges of this call. In an embodiment of the present invention, along with this notification message, party B also receives an option \u2018Ok\u2019 to accept this request and an option \u2018Cancel\u2019 to reject this request. The \u2018Ok\u2019 option corresponds to accepting the request to bear the call charges and the \u2018Cancel\u2019 option corresponds to rejecting the request to bear the call charges. In an embodiment of the present invention, party B accepts to bear the call charges by selecting \u2018Ok\u2019 option. Thus, when party B selects \u2018Ok\u2019 option, a message such as USSD Ack is received at VLR-B . Thereafter, in step  to step , the USSD Notify Ack message reaches service node . Service node , upon receiving this notification message, initiates the collect call between party A and party B.","In an embodiment of the present invention, party B rejects to bear the charges of the call by selecting \u2018Cancel\u2019 option. Thus, when party B selects \u2018Cancel\u2019 option, a message USSD Ack is received at VLR-B . The remaining call for this USSD message to reach service node  is similar to steps  to . Service node  upon receiving the acknowledgement message with \u2018Cancel\u2019 option does not initiate any communication with party B. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  further sends a notification to party A informing party A that party B has rejected his request for bearing the call charges. At step , service node  sends an USSD message such as an \u201cUSSD Notify-A number\u201d message to USSD gateway . USSD gateway  forwards this message to HLR  at step . Thereafter at step , HLR  sends the USSD message to VLR-A , which then sends the notification message to party A. Thereafter, party A acknowledges to this notification message. Finally, VLR-A  sends an USSD Notify Ack message to service node  via HLR , at steps  to . In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B rejects the request of party A to bear the charges of the call, party A retries the same process of sending the same request to party B after some time (e.g., five minutes).","In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  detects an Early Call Forwarding (ECF) or Late Call Forwarding (LCF) status being activated for party B, after it receives the request from party A for initiating the MO call, it sends a notification to party A that a call cannot be set to party B due to ECF. When ECF or LCF is activated for party B, the call made to party B would instead be routed to his forwarded number. In this case, although party B confirmed to take the call charges (using USSD or SMS interface), he may forget that unconditional call forwarding is active, and may end up being charged for the call which he did not have an opportunity to answer. The ECF or LCF status for party B is obtained by service node  by sending a MAP SRI message for party B's number to HLR . The call flow for sending the notification for ECF or LCF is similar to the steps  to . Even in this embodiment, the party A retries the same process of sending the request to party B after some time (e.g., five minutes In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B is not responding or is busy or waiting, then service node  sends a notification message to party A informing that the request made by party A cannot be processed and informing him the reason for the same.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["401","104","502","401","112","504","112","104","112","112"]},"Upon receiving party A's request, service node  sends an acknowledgement message back to party A via SMSC  and MSC-A\/VLR-A , at steps  and . The acknowledgement message is a receipt of successful delivery of the SMS sent by party A to service node . Thereafter at step , service node  sends an SMS to SMSC  to notify party B about the request made by party A to bear the charge of the MO call. At step , SMSC  sends a Mobile Terminated (MT) FwdSMS message to MSC-B\/VLR-B , which further sends the notification SMS to party B. In an embodiment of the present invention, this notification SMS is to notify party B that party A wants to initiate a call with party B and that party A has requested party B to bear the charges of this call. In an embodiment of the present invention, party B accepts the request of party A to bear the expense of the call and sends an SMS with \u2018Ok\u2019 indicating his acceptance. Thereafter, at step , MSC-B\/VLR-B  sends the SMS received from party B, to SMSC . Further, at step , SMSC  forwards the SMS to service node . After receiving the notification message from party B, service node  initiates the collect call.","In another embodiment of the present invention, party B rejects the request of party A to bear the expense of the call and sends an SMS with \u2018Cancel\u2019 option indicating rejection of the request. The call flow for notifying service node  about the rejection status of party B is similar to as explained in steps  to . In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  further sends a notification to party A informing party A that party B has rejected his request for bearing the call charges. At step , service node , sends a notification message \u201cSMS Notify A number\u201d to SMSC . Thereafter at step , SMSC  sends a message \u201cFwdSMS-MT: Status notification\u201d to MSC-A\/VLR-A  to notify party A that party B has rejected the request of bearing the charges of the call that will be initiated by party A. In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B rejects the request of party A to bear the charges of the call, party A retries the same process of sending the request to party B after some time (e.g., five minutes). In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  detects the ECF or LCF status being activated for party B, after it receives the request from party A, it sends a notification to party A that a call cannot be set to party B due to the ECF or LCF setting. The call flow for sending this notification to party A is similar to as described in steps  and . In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B is not responding or is busy or waiting, then service node  sends a notification message to party A informing that the request made by party A cannot be processed and also informing him the status of party B.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B","b":["401","602","401","104","104","604","104","401","104","606","608","104","104","401"]},"After the request from party A has been received by service node , service node  initiates an IVR call with party B (via MSC-B\/VLR-B ) at step , to notify party B about the request made by party A to bear the charge of the MO call. At step , party B answers the IVR call and answer messages are exchanged between MSC-B\/VLR-B . In an embodiment of the present invention, party B is made to hear a message that party A has requested to initiate a MO call with party B and wants party B to bear the charge of the call. In an exemplary case, party A message recorded by IVR system of service node , is made to hear to party B. In an embodiment of the present invention, party B responds to the request made by party A using Dual Tome Multi Frequency (DTMF). In an embodiment of the present invention, Party B presses \u20181\u2019 on a mobile phone to accept the request. Service node  notes this response and disconnects the call by sending a release message \u201cREL-party B\u201d to MSC\/B-VLR-B at step . Thereafter, at step , service node  receives a release message RLC from MSC-B\/VLR\/B . After receiving the acceptance from party B, service node  initiates the collect call.","In another embodiment of the present invention, party B presses \u20182\u2019 on the mobile phone to reject the request made by party A. Service node  notes this response and disconnects the call by exchanging release messages at steps  and . In an embodiment of the present invention, after receiving a rejection for the request from party B, service node  at notifies party A about the rejection of the request. At step , service node  initiates an IVR call to MSC-A\/VLR-A  with Calling Party Address (CgPA) as service node 's number and Called Party Address (CdPA) as party A's number. When party A answers the IVR call, answer messages are exchanged between MSC-A\/VLR-A  and service node  at steps  and . After party A answers the call, party A is notified by the IVR call that party B has rejected the request for collect call. Thereafter, at steps  and , the call is released by service node  and release messages are exchanged between service node  and MSC-A\/VLR-A . In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B did not answer the call or an ECF or LCF is detected or was busy, party A is made to hear a message indicating the above said status of party B.","In an embodiment of the present invention, party B sends a \u2018cancel\u2019 message and the call is disconnected by service node . When the \u2018cancel\u2019 message is received at service node , service node  disconnects the call and no further communication is done by party B.","In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B rejects the request of party A to bear the charges of the call, party A retries the same process of sending the request to party B after some time (e.g., five minutes). In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  detects an ECF or LCF status being activated for party B, after it receives the request from Party A for initiating the MO call, it sends a notification to Party A that a call cannot be set to the party B due to ECF or LCF. The call flow for sending this notification to party A is similar to as discussed in steps  and . In another embodiment of the present invention, party A is notified using a USSD message. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, party A is notified by service node  by sending a SMS to service node .","As discussed earlier, to establish a collect call, service node  needs to initiate separate MO calls to both party A and party B. , B and C illustrate a flow diagram for implementing reverse charge service for a collect call by calling party , in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.","In this embodiment, service node  initiates a first MO call to calling party  and a second MO call to called party  and then bridges the first and the second MO calls to connect calling party  and called party . Hence, at step , service node  initiates an ISUP IAM call to GMSC\/SSF  with CdPA as party A's number with a prefix \u2018*\u2019, and CgPA as party B's number. As mentioned earlier, the CLI shown to party A is controlled by setting an Additional Calling Address (AdCgPA) to an appropriate value. In an embodiment of the present invention, the AdCgPA is set to party B's number. In another embodiment of the present invention, the AdCgPA is set to service node 's short code. Thereafter at step , GMSC\/SSF  sends an Intelligent Network (IN) Initial Destination Point (IDP) message to service node , based on the prefixed CdPA. Then, at step , upon receiving the IN IDP message with the prefixed party A's number, service node  issues a MAP Send Routing Information (SRI) message with suppressed Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information (T-CSI) and party A's Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number (MSISDN-A) to HLR , to obtain a Mobile Station Routing Number (MSRN) associated with party A (MSRN-A). It will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the steps  to  represent a standard procedure for obtaining MSRN-A.","Thereafter at step , once MSRN-A is obtained, service node  issues an IN IDP message to pre-paid SCP  with CdPA as MSRN-A and CgPA as party B's number. In an embodiment of the present invention, this IN IDP message enables pre-paid SCP  to charge party B appropriately for the first MO call on the MSRN-A. At step , when party B has enough credit in his a prepaid account then pre-paid SCP  responds with an IN Continue (CUE) message and Request Report Basic call state model event (RRB) message. Thereafter at step , service node  sends an IN Connect (CON) message to GMSC\/SSSF  with CdPA as MSRN-A and CgPA as party B's number. Upon receiving the IN CON message, at step , GMSC\/SSF  issues an ISUP IAM message with CdPA as MSRN-A and CgPA as party B's number. When party A is reachable and answers the ISUP IAM call, service node  receives answer message relayed through GMSC\/SSF , at steps  and . Further, at step , GMSC\/SSF  sends Event Report Basic call state model (ERB) message to prepaid SCP . In response to the IN ERB messages, prepaid SCP  relays IN CUE message to GMSC\/SSF . In an embodiment of the present invention, at step , service node  is equipped with voice trunks and plays an announcement to party A, while it connects the second MO call to the party B.","To initiate the second MO call, service node , at step , initiates an ISUP IAM call to GMSC\/SSF  with CdPA as party B's number and CgPA as the short code assigned to service node . Again, the CLI shown to party B is controlled by setting the AdCgPA to an appropriate value. In an embodiment of the present invention, the AdCgPA is set to party A's number. In another embodiment of the present invention, the AdCgPA is set to service node 's short code. Thereafter, at step , GMSC\/SSF  initiates a MAP SRI with unsuppressed T-CSI to HLR  to obtain MSRN corresponding to party B (MSRN-B). It will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the steps  to  represent a standard procedure for obtaining MSRN. Thus at step , GMSC\/SSF  obtains the MSRN-B.","Furthermore, at step , GMSC\/SSF  sends an IN IDP message to pre-paid SCP  with CdPA as MSRN-B and CgPA as short code of service node . In an embodiment of the present invention, when party B is present in HPMN  and MT calls are not charged then prepaid SCP  returns an IN CUE message at step . In another embodiment of the present invention, when party B is roaming in the VPMN then prepaid SCP  checks for the appropriate balance in the party B's prepaid account and if sufficient balance is available, SCP  sends an IN CUE message to GMS\/SSF  at step . Thereafter at step , GMSC\/SSF  forwards the ISUP IAM message to MSC-B\/VLR-B . When party B is available and answers the call, service node  receives answer message at step  and . In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  is equipped with voice trunks (IVR option) and plays an announcement to party B, while it bridges the first MO call and the second MO call via ISUP loop-back. Further, at step , GMSC\/SSF  sends ERB message to prepaid SCP . In response to the IN ERB message, prepaid SCP  relays IN CUE message to GMSC\/SSF  at step .","In an embodiment of the present invention, when called party  is a postpaid subscriber, the call flow for called party  remains similar to what is explained in conjunction with , B and C except that IN messages are exchanged with prepaid SCP .","Charging Scenario when the Called Party is a Postpaid Subscriber","In an embodiment of the present invention, charging of the post-paid subscribers is done using the call Detail Records (CDRs) from GMSC\/SSF .\n\n","Further, in an embodiment of the present invention, no roaming call forwarding CDR is generated and therefore no MTC roaming charges are levied on party A.\n\n","In an embodiment of the present invention, when party A is roaming in a VPMN network that charges airtime for MT calls, the VPMN operator will generate Transfer Account Procedure (TAP) files to be billed to party A. When party A is a prepaid subscriber, this charging may not be possible in real time. Even when party A is a postpaid subscriber, there may be chances that party B may not be willing to bear this charge. To avoid these situations, collect calls from such network are disallowed by adding the VPMN network into a black list.","As mentioned earlier, the reverse charge service also includes sending a collect SMS by calling party  to called party , for which called party  pays. In an embodiment of the present invention, for sending the collect SMS, calling party  sends a MO SMS with a destination number as a prefixed called party 's number. When the MO SMS reaches service node , service node  verifies whether calling party  is a valid subscriber of reverse charge service or not. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  verifies the validity of calling party  using database . In an embodiment of the present invention, database  stores a list of valid subscribers (i.e., calling parties) that have registered for the reverse charge service. In an embodiment of the present invention, when calling party  is an invalid subscriber, service node  sends a notification to calling party  indicating that since calling party  is not subscribed for the reverse charge service, therefore his request for sending the collect SMS cannot be entertained. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  notifies calling party  using the USSD interface. In another embodiment of the present invention, service node  notifies calling party  using the SMS interface.","In an embodiment of the present invention, when calling party  is a valid subscriber of the reverse charge service, service node  sends a request to called party  indicating that calling party  wants to send a collect SMS. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  sends the request to called party  using the USSD interface. In another embodiment of the present invention, service node  sends the request to called party  using the SMS interface. In an embodiment of the present invention, called party  accepts the request of calling party  to send the collect SMS and sends his confirmation to service node . Service node  upon receiving the approval from called party , forwards the SMS (sent by calling party ) to called party  and charges called party  for that SMS. In an embodiment of the present invention, called party  rejects the request of calling party  and sends his rejection to service node . Even for rejection called party  may send his response using either the USSD interface or the SMS interface. Service node  upon receiving a rejection from called party  sends a notification to calling party  indicating that called party  has rejected collect SMS request. In an embodiment of the present invention, service node  notifies calling party  using the USSD interface. In another embodiment of the present invention, service node  notifies calling party  using the SMS interface.","Further, in an embodiment of the present invention, calling party  is able to send collect SMS even when HPMN  does not support CAMEL transactions. In another embodiment of the present invention, calling party  is able to send collect SMS when HPMN  supports CAMEL transactions. In both these embodiments calling party  can be located either at HPMN  or at the VPMN. As mentioned earlier, for sending a collect SMS, calling party  first needs to submit an MO SMS to service node . When calling party  is located at HPMN  the MO SMS is not charged. However, when calling party  is located at the VPMN, the VPMN can charge for the MO SMS to service node . In one case to avoid charging of MO SMS when calling party  is at the VPMN, service node  sends a negative acknowledgement message for all the MO SMSs which are submitted with a prefixed number. With this negative acknowledgement message an MSC associated with the VPMN assumes a failure in the delivery of the SMS and does not charge for the MO SMS. Service node  can later deliver the SMS to called party  and can charge called party  for the MO SMS. In another case to avoid charging of MO SMS at the VPMN, calling party  sends a USSD request to USSD gateway . This USSD request is handled by service node . When service node  receives the USSD request from calling party , service node  initiates a USSD transaction with calling party  and prompts him to enter the message content. Calling party  enters the message content in the USSD reply message. Service node  uses this message sent by calling party  and converts it into an SMS. Service node  then submits this SMS to SMSC  with a prefix to called party 's number. As USSD service is provided free by most of the mobile operators, VPMN does not charge for the message submitted with the help of USSD. Thus, depending upon whether HPMN  has a CAMEL support or not and whether calling party  is located in HPMN  or in the VPMN, service node  provides four options for calling party  to submit MO SMS to service node .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A","b":["8","8","8","106","104","104","102","102","104","401","802","401","104","104","804","104","104","104","104","104"]},"In a second case of submitting MO SMS, when HPMN  does not support CAMEL and party A is at the VPMN, then party A issues an USSD message to service node . An example of the USSD message could be *123#B-Num#, where B-Num corresponds to party B's number. HLR  upon receiving this USSD message routes it to MSC-A\/VLR-A . Thereafter at step , MSC-A\/VLR-A  sends a USSD message \u201cProcess Unstructured SS Req (*123#B-Num#)\u201d to service node . Service node , after receiving the USSD message verifies whether party A is a valid subscriber of reverse charge service or not. In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is an invalid subscriber of the reverse charge service, service node  cancels the USSD message and sends a notification message to party A and ends the USSD transaction. In another embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is valid subscriber of reverse charge service, service node  at step , sends a notification message \u201cProcess Unstructured SS Req Ack\u201d to MSC-A\/VLR-A  for party B, indicating that his request is being processed. Thereafter at step , service node  sends a \u201cMAP Unstructured SS Req (\u201cInput SMS msg\u201d)\u201d message to MSC-A\/VLR-A. Party A upon receiving this message enters the message content which is to be sent as collect SMS and sends it back to MSC-A\/VLR-A . Thus, at step , MSC-A\/VLR-A  sends a message \u201cUnstructured SS Req Ack (\u201cSMS msg\u201d)\u201d to service node . Service node  after obtaining the message content for collect SMS, sends a notification message \u201cUnstructured SS Notify\u201d for party A (via MSC-A\/VLR-A ) at step . After sending the notification message, service node  stores the message in database  and then enables the collect SMS procedure which is explained later in conjunction with this figure.","In a third case when HPMN  supports CAMEL and party A is at HPMN , then party A submits the MO SMS to service node  by adding a prefix (e.g., \u2018*\u2019) to party B's number. Hence, at step , MSC-A\/VLR-A  sends an IDP message \u201cMO-SMS-IDP (Dest Num=*B)\u201d to service node . Service node , after receiving the IDP message verifies whether party A is a valid subscriber of reverse charge service or not. In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is an invalid subscriber of the reverse charge service, service node  sends a release message and prevents rejects further messages from party A. In another embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is valid subscriber of reverse charge service, service node  at step  sends a message to MSC-A\/VLR-A  to change SMSC 's address to service node 's address. Based on this change is address, MSC-A\/VLR-A  routes MO FwdSMS to service node . Service node  then at step  sends an acknowledgment message \u201cMO FwdSMS Ack\u201d to MSC-A\/VLR-A  and enables the collect SMS procedure which is explained later in conjunction with this figure.","In a fourth case when HPMN  supports CAMEL and party A is at the VPMN, then party A issues an USSD message. An example of the USSD message could be *123#B-Num#, where B-Num corresponds to party B's number. Hence, at step , MSC-A\/VLR-A  sends a USSD message \u201cProcess Unstructured SS Req (*123#b-Num#)\u201d to HLR . In an embodiment of the present invention, HLR  is provisioned with UG-CSI (USSD Generic CAMEL Subscription Information). Due to the UG-CSI, HLR  at step , routes the USSD message to service node . Thereafter, service node  verifies whether party A is a valid subscriber of reverse charge service or not. In an embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is an invalid subscriber of the reverse charge service, service node , at step , sends a USSD message \u201cUSSD-Rel (\u201cInvalid Request\u201d)\u201d. Thereafter, at step , HLR  sends a USSD message \u201cProcess Unstructured SS Req Ack (\u201cInvalid Req\u201d)\u201d to MSC-A\/VLR-A and thus notifying that party A is an invalid subscriber. Service node  further ends the USSD transaction. In another embodiment of the present invention, when service node  identifies that party A is valid subscriber of reverse charge service, service node  at step , sends a \u201cMAP Unstructured SS Req (\u201cInput SMS msg\u201d)\u201d message to MSC-A\/VLR-A. Party A upon receiving this message enters the message content which is to be sent as collect SMS and sends it back to MSC-A\/VLR-A . Thus at step , MSC-A\/VLR-A  sends a message \u201cUnstructured SS Req Ack (\u201cSMS msg\u201d)\u201d to service node . Service node  after obtaining the message content, sends a notification message \u201cUnstructured SS Notify\u201d for party B (via MSC-A\/VLR-A ). After sending the notification message, service node  stores the message in database  and then enables the collect SMS procedure which is explained later in conjunction with this figure.","Once party B has submitted the SMS to service node  through any of the above mentioned four options, service node  enables the collect SMS procedure. In this procedure, at step , service node  sends a USSD request message like \u201cUnstructured SS Req\u201d to MSC-B\/VLR-B  with an indication for party B that party A has requested for a collect SMS. At step , MSC-B\/VLR-B sends an acknowledgement message \u201cUnstructured SS Resp\u201d to service node . In an embodiment of the present invention, party B upon receiving the USSD request message via MSC-B\/VLR-B  accepts the request for the collect SMS from party A. Thereafter at step , service node  sends the MO SMS to SMSC  over the IP protocol. Further, at step , SMSC  sends a message \u201cCharging for MT SMS\u201d to prepaid SCP  so as to charge party B for the collect SMS. Thereafter, at step , prepaid SCP sends an acknowledgement message \u201cCharging Ack\u201d to SMSC . Thereafter at steps  and , SMSC  exchanges standard MAP messages with HLR  to obtain an International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI) associated with party B (IMSI-B). After obtaining IMSI-B, at steps  and  SMSC  sends an MT FwdSMS message to MSC-B\/VLR-B  and receives an acknowledgment message from MSC-B\/VLR-B. Thereafter, MSC-B\/VLR-B delivers the SMS to party B and party B is charged for that SMS.","In another embodiment of the invention, when party B rejects the request for the collect SMS from party A, service node  sends a notification to party A indicating that party B has rejected the request of the collect SMS. At step , service node sends a USSD message \u201cUnstructured SS Notify\u201d notifying party A that the request for collect SMS has been rejected by party B. Further, at step , service node  receives a USSD message \u201cUnstructured SS Notify Resp\u201d from party A via MSC-A\/VLR-A .","In an alternate embodiment of the present invention, service node  interacts with party A (via MSC-A\/VLR-A ) and party B (via MSC-B\/VLR-B ) via the SMS interface instead of USSD interface as explained above. Further, the interactions between MSC-A\/VLR-A  and MSC-B\/VLR-B  is done via SMSC  when the SMS interface is used by service node .","Further, when called party  is a postpaid subscriber, billing of called party  for collect SMS is handled by obtaining CDRs from SMSC  and MSC-B\/VLR-B . These CDRs can be fed into a mediation or billing system. These CDRs are rated on the basis of SMS Type (MO\/MT), called number and calling number to charge called party .","When called party  is a prepaid subscriber, billing of called party  for collect SMS is handled in real time. Further, when HPMN  supports CAMEL, called party  is charged in real-time using CAP triggers to pre-paid SCP .","It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art, that the present invention can also be applied to Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)\/American National Standards Institute #41D (ANSI-41D), and various other technologies such as, but not limited to, VoIP, WiFi, 3GSM and inter-standard roaming. In one exemplary case, a CDMA outbound roamer travels with an HPMN CDMA handset. In another exemplary case, the CDMA outbound roamer travels with an HPMN GSM SIM and a GSM handset. In yet another exemplary case, GSM outbound roamer travels with an HPMN CDMA RUIM and a CDMA handset. To support these variations, gateway  and client  will have a separate SS7 and network interfaces, corresponding to both the HPMN and FPMN networks. It will also be apparent to a person skilled in the art that these two interfaces in different directions may not have to be the same technologies. Moreover, there could be multiple types of interface in both directions.","An exemplary list of the mapping between GSM MAP and ANSI-41D is described in the table below as a reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"GSM MAP","ANSI-41D"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Location Update\/ISD","REGNOT"]},{"entry":[{},"Cancel Location","REGCAN"]},{"entry":[{},"RegisterSS","FEATUREREQUEST"]},{"entry":[{},"InterrogateSS","FEATUREREQUEST"]},{"entry":[{},"SRI-SM","SMSREQ"]},{"entry":[{},"SRI","LOCATION REQUEST"]},{"entry":[{},"ForwardSMS","SMSDPP"]},{"entry":[{},"ReadyForSMS","SMSNOTIFICATION"]},{"entry":[{},"AlertServiceCenter","SMSNOTIFICATION"]},{"entry":[{},"ReportSMSDelivery","SMDPP"]},{"entry":[{},"ProvideRoamingNumber","ROUTING REQUEST"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The present invention provides a reverse charge service for the subscribers of the HPMN. With the help of reverse charge service, a calling party is able to make calls and send SMS to a called party, for which the called party is charged. The reverse charge service is useful for both prepaid and post subscribers. When prepaid subscribers are out of balance and they still want to make calls and send SMSs they can use the reverse charge service to make collect calls and send collect SMS. When postpaid subscribers do not want to spend on outgoing calls or when their calls are barred, they can use the reverse charge service to make collect calls and send collect SMS. The reverse charge service increases revenues of the HPMN operator as the called party pays for the calling party when he is out of balance or when his outgoing activities are barred or when he does not wish to pay for the outgoing calls and SMS (maybe when he is in roaming and wants to avoid airtime charges).","The present invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, software, including but not limited to, firmware, resident software, and microcode, implements the invention.","Furthermore, the invention can take the form of a computer program product, accessible from a computer-usable or computer-readable medium providing program code for use by, or in connection with, a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description, a computer-usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","The medium can be an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system (or apparatus or device) or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer-readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory, magnetic tape, a removable computer diskette, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk-read only memory (CDROM), compact disk-read\/write (CD-R\/W) and Digital Versatile Disk (DVD).","A computer usable medium provided herein includes a computer usable program code, which when executed, facilitates mobile communication between a calling party and a called party, by establishing the mobile communication, by a service node, upon receiving a response from the called party for a mobile communication request made by the calling party to the service node. Further, the computer program product facilitates by the service node, charging of the called party for the established mobile communication.","The components of present system described above include any combination of computing components and devices operating together. The components of the present system can also be components or subsystems within a larger computer system or network. The present system components can also be coupled with any number of other components (not shown), such as other buses, controllers, memory devices, and data input\/output devices, in any number of combinations. In addition, any number or combination of other processor-based components may be carrying out the functions of the present system.","It should be noted that the various components disclosed herein may be described using computer aided design tools and\/or expressed (or represented), as data and\/or instructions embodied in various computer-readable media, in terms of their behavioral, register transfer, logic component, transistor, layout geometries, and\/or other characteristics. Computer-readable media in which such formatted data and\/or instructions may be embodied include, but are not limited to, non-volatile storage media in various forms (e.g., optical, magnetic or semiconductor storage media) and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and\/or instructions through wireless, optical, or wired signaling media or any combination thereof.","Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words \u201ccomprise,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in a sense of \u201cincluding, but may not be limited to.\u201d Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally, the words \u201cherein,\u201d \u201chereunder,\u201d \u201cabove,\u201d \u201cbelow,\u201d and words of similar import refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word \u201cor\u201d is used in reference to a list of two or more items, it covers all of the following interpretations: any of the items in the list, all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.","The above description of illustrated embodiments of the present system is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present system to the precise form disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the present system are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the present system, as those skilled in the art will recognize. The teachings of the present system provided herein can be applied to other processing systems and methods. They may not be limited to the systems and methods described above.","The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made in light of the above detailed description.","Other Variations","Provided above for the edification of those of ordinary skill in the art, and not as a limitation on the scope of the invention, are detailed illustrations of a scheme for charging a called party for the mobile communication initiated by a calling party. Numerous variations and modifications within the spirit of the present invention will of course occur to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the embodiments that have been disclosed. For example, the present invention is implemented primarily from the point of view of GSM mobile networks as described in the embodiments. However, the present invention may also be effectively implemented on GPRS, 3G, CDMA, WCDMA, WiMax etc., or any other network of common carrier telecommunications in which end users are normally configured to operate within a \u201chome\u201d network to which they normally subscribe, but have the capability of also operating on other neighboring networks, which may even be across international borders.","The examples under the system of present invention detailed in the illustrative examples contained herein are described using terms and constructs drawn largely from GSM mobile telephony infrastructure. However, use of these examples should not be interpreted as limiting the invention to those media. The system and method can be of use and provided through any type of telecommunications medium, including without limitation: (i) any mobile telephony network including without limitation GSM, 3GSM, 3G, CDMA, WCDMA or GPRS, satellite phones or other mobile telephone networks or systems; (ii) any so-called WiFi apparatus normally used in a home or subscribed network, but also configured for use on a visited or non-home or non-accustomed network, including apparatus not dedicated to telecommunications such as personal computers, Palm-type or Windows Mobile devices; (iii) an entertainment console platform such as Sony Playstation, PSP or other apparatus that are capable of sending and receiving telecommunications over home or non-home networks, or even (iv) fixed-line devices made for receiving communications, but capable of deployment in numerous locations while preserving a persistent subscriber id such as the eye2eye devices from Dlink; or telecommunications equipment meant for voice over IP communications such as those provided by Vonage or Packet8.","In describing certain embodiments of the system under the present invention, this specification follows the path of a telecommunications call, from a calling party to a called party. For the avoidance of doubt, such a call can be a normal voice call, in which the subscriber telecommunications equipment is also capable of visual, audiovisual or motion-picture display. Alternatively, those devices or calls can be for text, video, pictures or other communicated data.","In the foregoing specification, specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly, the specification and the figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense, and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits, advantages, solutions to problems, and any element(s) that may cause any benefit, advantage, or solution to occur, or to become more pronounced, are not to be construed as a critical, required, or essential feature or element of any or all of the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0098"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"APPENDIX"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Acronym","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["API","Application Programming Interface"]},{"entry":["CAMEL","Customized Application for Mobile Enhanced Logic"]},{"entry":["CAP","CAMEL Application Part"]},{"entry":["CdPA","Called Party Address"]},{"entry":["CgPA","Calling Party Address"]},{"entry":["CDR","Call Detail Record"]},{"entry":["CIMD2","Computer Interface to Machine Distribution, version 2"]},{"entry":["CLI","Calling Line Identification"]},{"entry":["CSI","Camel Subscription Information"]},{"entry":["CRM","Customer Relationship Management"]},{"entry":["DTMF","Dual Tome Multi Frequency"]},{"entry":["ECF","Early Call Forwarding"]},{"entry":["ERB","Event Report Basic call state model"]},{"entry":["GMSC","Gateway MSC"]},{"entry":["GPRS","General Packet Radio Services"]},{"entry":["GUI","Graphical User Interface"]},{"entry":["GT","Global Title"]},{"entry":["HLR","Home Location Register"]},{"entry":["HPMN","Home Public Mobile Network"]},{"entry":["HTTP","Hypertext Transfer Protocol"]},{"entry":["IAM","Initial Address Message"]},{"entry":["IDP","Initial Destination Point"]},{"entry":["IN","Intelligent Network"]},{"entry":["INAP","Intelligent Network Application Part"]},{"entry":["IP","Internet Protocol"]},{"entry":["ISD","MAP Insert Subscriber Data"]},{"entry":["ISUP","ISDN User Part"]},{"entry":["IVR","Interactive Voice Response"]},{"entry":["LCF","Late Call Forwarding"]},{"entry":["LUP","Location Update"]},{"entry":["MAP","Mobile Application Part"]},{"entry":["MO","Mobile Originated"]},{"entry":["MSC","Mobile Switching Center"]},{"entry":["MSISDN","Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number"]},{"entry":["MSRN","Mobile Station Roaming Number"]},{"entry":["MT","Mobile Terminated"]},{"entry":["O&M","Operation and Maintenance"]},{"entry":["PC","Point Code"]},{"entry":["RRB","Request Report Basic call state model event"]},{"entry":["SC","Short Code"]},{"entry":["SCP","Signaling Control Point"]},{"entry":["SCCP","Signal Connection Control part"]},{"entry":["SME","Short Message Entity"]},{"entry":["SMPP","Short Message Peer-to-Peer"]},{"entry":["SMS","Short Message Service"]},{"entry":["SMSC","Short Message Service Center"]},{"entry":["SNMP","Simple Network Management Protocol"]},{"entry":["SRI","MAP Send Routing Information"]},{"entry":["SRI-SM","MAP Send Routing Information For Short Message"]},{"entry":["SS7","Signaling System #7"]},{"entry":["SSF","Service Switching Function"]},{"entry":["STP","Signal Transfer Point"]},{"entry":["TAP","Transfer Account Procedure"]},{"entry":["T-CSI","Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information"]},{"entry":["TCAP","Transaction Capabilities Application Part"]},{"entry":["TCP","Transmission Control Protocol"]},{"entry":["USSD","Unstructured Supplementary Services Data"]},{"entry":["VLR","Visitor Location Register"]},{"entry":["VPMN","Visited Public Mobile Network"]},{"entry":["VT-CSI","Visited Terminated CAMEL Service Information"]},{"entry":["XML","eXtensible Markup Language"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":["GSM 902 on MAP specification","Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);","Mobile Application Part (MAP) Specification","(3GPP TS 09.02 version 7.9.0 Release 1998);","GSM 378 CAMEL Architecture, Release 1998;","GSM 978 CAMEL Application Protocol, Release 1998;","GSM 340 on SMS","Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);","Technical realization of the Short Message Service (SMS);","(GSM 03.40 version 7.4.0 Release 1998)","Q1214-Q1218 on Intelligent Networks","Q701-704 on SS7 MTP","Q711-Q714 on SS7 SCCP","TD.35 NRTRDE Format for Fraud information","FF.18 NRTRDE Business Requirements","ETSI CS domain charging documents: TS 12.05, TS 32.005, TS 32.205, TS 32.298","ETSI PS domain charging documents: TS 12.15, TS 32.015, TS 32.215, TS 32.298","ETS 300 374-1 Intelligent Network (IN); Intelligent Network Capability Set 1 (CS1); Core Intelligent Network Application Protocol (INAP); Part 1: Protocol specification","EN 301 140-1 Intelligent Network (IN); Intelligent Network Application Protocol (INAP); Capability Set 2 (CS2); Part 1: Protocol specification","Jiang DCG 2005 Dynamic originating CAMEL approach for Implementing Call Control Services for Inbound Roamers, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/679,444;","Jiang et al 2003 Traffic Redirection","GSM 379 on CAMEL Support of Optimal Routing (SOR)","GSM 318 on CAMEL Basic Call Handling","ITU-T Recommendation Q.1214 (1995), Distributed functional plane for intelligent network CS-1;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.1218 (1995), Interface Recommendation for intelligent network CS-1;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.762 (1999), Signaling system No. 7\u2014ISDN user part general functions of messages and signals;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.763 (1999), Signaling system No. 7\u2014ISDN user part formats and codes;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.764 (1999), Signaling system No. 7\u2014ISDN user part signaling procedures;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.766 (1993), Performance objectives in the integrated services digital network application;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.765 (1998), Signaling system No. 7\u2014Application transport mechanism;","ITU-T Recommendation Q.769.1 (1999), Signaling system No. 7\u2014ISDN user part enhancements for the support of Number Portability"]}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, the same or similar reference numbers identify similar elements or acts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A","b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A","b":["8","8","8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
