---
title: Vibrating beam accelerometer with improved performance in vibration environments
abstract: An accelerometer that has a cross coupling coefficient due to pendulum droop of the proof mass that is approximately equal and opposite in sign to a cross coupling coefficient due to resonator nonlinearity. The accelerometer includes a proof mass, a housing having at least two opposing interior walls, and one or more flexures for flexibly connecting the proof mass at a first end to a first one of the opposing walls of the housing. A first resonator is connected to a first surface of the proof mass at an end of the proof mass opposite the first end and to the housing wall that is not attached to the flexure. A second resonator is connected to a second surface of the proof mass and the housing wall that receives the first resonator. The second surface is on an opposite side of the proof mass as the first surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117917&OS=08117917&RS=08117917
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08117917
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080327
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. FA9453-05-C-0241. The Government Agency is Air Force Research Laboratories (AFRL). The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.","Accelerometers used in guidance, navigation, and control systems, have to meet performance specifications in spite of structural and acoustic vibration environments. These systems typically output accelerometer values at relatively slow data rates, on the order of 100 Hz and slower. This is sufficient for aircraft navigation or missile guidance and control. Structural and acoustic vibrations, on the other hand, are typically much higher, in the 100 to 100,000 Hz range.","The average output from an accelerometer, taken over enough samples, would ideally be zero in a vibration environment as described above. The vibration environment being equally positive and negative in direction, with an average acceleration of zero, and no net change in velocity.","However, real accelerometers do not respond identically to positive and negative accelerations. That is, their output is not perfectly linear over the + and \u2212 range. As a result, their average output does not average to zero under vibration. Instead, they suffer a bias offset in vibration, an error that is referred to as vibration rectification error, or VRE. VRE is typically a significant problem for precision accelerometers in guidance, navigation, and control systems.","One source of accelerometer nonlinearity contributing to VRE is called cross coupling sensitivity. This refers to changes in the primary input axis sensitivity of the accelerometers as a function of cross axis accelerations. In particular, the cross coupling coefficient K(input axis sensitivity coupling with pendulous axis input) can be very large, and contributes significantly to nonlinearity and to VRE.","In pendulous vibrating beam accelerometers, the cross coupling coefficient Kcomes from two sources. First, the pendulum displaces under acceleration, causing the center of mass to move with respect to the supporting flexures or pivot. This causes a change in pendulous axis sensitivity, which then by definition is a cross coupling sensitivity K. This source for Kis typically referred to as pendulum droop.","A second source for Kis from the nonlinear force-frequency relationship in the vibrating beam force sensor. (The terms \u201cvibrating beam force sensor\u201d, \u201cforce sensor\u201d, and \u201cresonator\u201d are used interchangeably). Because of this nonlinearity, input axis accelerations change pendulous axis sensitivity, and vice versa, resulting in Kby definition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["34","1","34","2","30","38","32"]},"1) Droop Kis positive. That is, for positive accelerations along an input axis , the angular droop of the pendulum will increase the sensitivity along a pendulous axis .","2) Vibrating beam Kis also positive. That is, for positive accelerations along the pendulous axis , both resonators -, - go into compression, which by the nonlinear force-frequency relationship of the resonator, will increase the input axis sensitivity.","In summary, Knonlinearity results in accelerometer bias errors in vibration environments (VRE). Kin vibrating beam pendulous axis accelerometers is driven both by pendulum droop and by the nonlinear force-frequency behavior of the vibrating beam force sensor.","The present invention provides an accelerometer that has a cross coupling coefficient due to pendulum droop of the proof mass that is approximately equal and opposite in sign to a cross coupling coefficient due to resonator nonlinearity.","The accelerometer includes a proof mass, a housing having at least two opposing interior walls, and one or more flexures for flexibly connecting the proof mass at a first end to a first one of the opposing walls of the housing. A first resonator is connected to a first surface of the proof mass at an end of the proof mass opposite the first end and to the housing wall that is not attached to the flexure. A second resonator is connected to a second surface of the proof mass and the housing wall that receives the first resonator. The second surface is on an opposite side of the proof mass as the first surface.","In one aspect of the invention, the first and second resonators are tuning fork resonators.","This invention eliminates or reduces the cross coupling coefficient Kto reduce VRE and improve accelerometer performance in vibration environments.","This invention solves the above problem by canceling pendulum droop Kwith Kfrom the vibrating beam force-frequency nonlinearity. These two sources for Kare made to be opposite in sign by this invention and\/or to be exactly equal and opposite to substantially cancel one another.","This invention is unique from prior art in the orientation of the vibrating beam force sensors relative to the pendulous proof mass and unique in the specific sizing of the proof mass and flexure support system relative to the vibrating beam force sensors. The orientation allows for the droop Kto be opposite in sign from the vibrating beam K. The sizing relationship allows the two error terms to exactly cancel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["58","58","60","62","64","1","64","2","62","68","60","64","1","68","60","64","2","68","64","1","60","60","60","68","62","60","70","72","70","60"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["60","70","64","1","64","2","64","1","64","2","34","1","34","2"]},"In this invention, the resonators (-, -) are oriented relative to the pendulous proof mass , such that:","1) Droop Kis still positive; and","2) Positive accelerations (motion of housing to right on page) along the pendulous axis  puts both resonators -, - into tension, and by the nonlinear force-frequency relationship of the resonator, will decrease the input axis sensitivity, resulting in a negative K.","In order for the two Kerrors to exactly cancel, the following design relationships must be maintained in addition to orienting the resonators -, - as described above:","1) Kfrom pendulum droop is calculated as the angular displacement of the proof mass center of gravity relative to the flexure hinge center of rotation, for 1 G input axis acceleration; and","2) Kfrom resonator nonlinearity is calculated by K=2KK, where Kand Kare for individual resonators; and Kis the pendulous axis sensitivity and Kis the second order input axis sensitivity.","3) The above calculations are made by structural analysis methods, typically involving finite element analysis or other suitable methods.","The design is adjusted until the two Kip error sources are equal and opposite in sign so as to cancel one another.","Derivation of Kfrom Resonator Nonlinearity","Derivation of the equations for Kip due to resonator nonlinearity is as follows:\n\n1\u00b7()]\u2003\u2003(1)\n","Equation (1) is a polynomial approximation of resonator frequency vs. force. Fis axial force on resonator. aand aare functions of the resonator geometry and material properties.\n\n()\u00b7+()\u00b7\u00b7()\u2003\u2003(2)\n\n()\u00b7+()\u00b7\u00b7\u2514()\u00b7()+2+()\u00b7()\u2518\u2003\u2003(3)\n","Bis a function of proof mass and hinge geometry and material properties. Brelates accelerations along the input axis, A, to resonator force, with units, for example, of Newtons per G. For example, in  through -, the diameter of  is 1.7 inches, and the thickness is 0.25 inches. The flexures  are 0.050 inches by 0.020 inches by 0.003 inches thick. In this case, Bi is approximately 0.1 Newtons per G.","Bsimilarly relates accelerations along the pendulous axis, A, to resonator forces.","Let\n\n\u2003\u2003(4)\n","Equation (4) is the scale factor in Hz\/g.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["f","O"]}},"mi":"SF"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","ind"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","p"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["A","p"]}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["B","i"]},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]}},"mn":"2"}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["B","p"]}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["A","i"]},{"mi":["A","p"]}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["B","p"]}},"mn":"2"},"msub":{"mi":["B","i"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["A","p"]}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"+"}}}]}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Let","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["K","p"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","p"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}]}}}},"Equation (6) is cross axis sensitivity (single resonator sensitivity).","Let",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":"B","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}}},"Equation (7) is the second order input axis nonlinearity (single resonator sensitivity).","Let",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","pp"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["B","p"]}},"mn":"2"},"msub":{"mi":["B","i"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}}},"Equation (8) is second order pendulous axis nonlinearity (single resonator sensitivity).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["f","O"]}},"mi":"SF"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","ind"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mo":["+","+","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["K","p"]},{"mi":["A","p"]}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]}},"mn":"2"}}],"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["K","p"]},{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},{"mi":["A","i"]},{"mi":["A","p"]}]},{"msub":{"mi":["K","pp"]},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["A","p"]}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2063"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","ip"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["K","p"]},{"mi":"K","mn":"2"}]},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mn":"1"}]},"msub":{"mi":["B","p"]}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":"ip "},"To derive Kfrom pendulum droop:\n\n(1+)\u2003\u2003(11)\n","Equation (11) is polynomial approximation of resonator frequency vs. force. The second order terms are not necessary to show cross-coupling from pendulum droop.","Fis axial force on resonator. ais a function of the force resonator geometry and material properties.\n\n()\u00b7+()\u00b7+()\u00b7\u2003\u2003(12)\n","Bis a function of proof mass and hinge geometry and material properties. Brelates accelerations along the input axis, A, to resonator force.","Bsimilarly relates accelerations along the pendulous axis, A, to resonator forces.","Brelates accelerations along an axis that includes components of both the input and pendulous axes.","Let\n\n\u2003\u2003(13)\n","Equation (13) is the scale factor in Hz\/g.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["f","O"]}},"mi":"SF"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","ind"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","p"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]},"mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["A","p"]}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","ip"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["A","i"]},{"mi":["A","p"]}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","ip"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","ip"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}]}}}},"This is the Kcoefficient from droop.","The two sources for Kwill cancel when:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mn":"1"}]},"msub":{"mi":["B","p"]}},"mo":"+","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","ip"]},{"mi":["B","i"]}]}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["B","ip"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["B","i"]},{"mi":["B","p"]}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u00b7","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","mn":"2"},{"mi":"a","mn":"1"}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}]}}}},"The B's are functions of the proof mass geometry and material properties. The a's are functions for the resonator geometry and material properties. These are best determined using finite element analysis, or other methods of mechanical analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIGS. 4-1","b":["4","2","4","3","80","80","84","86","88","1","88","2","84","88","1","88","2"]},"While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described, as noted above, many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead, the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the following drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4-1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4-2","FIG. 4-1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4-3","FIGS. 4-1"],"b":["4","2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
