---
title: Printed wiring board feed-through capacitor
abstract: A feed-through capacitor is constructed in a printed wiring board using alternating layers of metal capacitive layers and plastic dielectric layers of the printed wiring board. The large number of layers, the avoidance of ceramic layers and the flexible geometry of this device allow it to be used in many applications, particularly in those involving high power high current. Also, because it utilizes a printed wiring board, the capacitor can be made in numerous sizes and shapes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08325461&OS=08325461&RS=08325461
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08325461
owner_city: Rockford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under contract no. N0019-02-C-3002 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","A feed-through capacitor connects to a conductive shaft or stud that passes through a chassis wall, and it filters unwanted high-frequency electromagnetic interference from an electrical circuit. A feed-through capacitor may be used on either an input or output conductor, and it prevents electromagnetic interference from getting into or out of the circuit. Feed-through capacitors are generally positioned close to a connection interface in order to isolate the connection from electromagnetic interference.","Feed-through capacitors are connected from a conductor to the chassis of a device and they provide a path for high frequency current to flow from the conductor to the chassis. In a typical feed-through capacitor, a capacitive element surrounds the stud and is coupled to both the stud and the inside of the chassis wall. The capacitive element provides a low impedance path from the stud to the chassis wall. However, the capacitive element appears as an insulator to low frequency current, and therefore it does not divert the low frequencies from the stud to the chassis. High frequencies, in contrast, are shunted from the stud to the chassis. In essence, a feed-through capacitor is a short circuit that only short-circuits frequencies that are undesirable for a particular application. Feed-through capacitors generally operate in the kilohertz to megahertz range.","Feed-through capacitors are typically made for small contacts and small currents, and are commonly used in low power, radio frequency applications. In high power applications, and particularly high current applications, there is no generally accepted method for applying feed-through capacitors to a circuit. High power applications require capacitors with large capacitance. Most feed-through capacitors utilize ceramic discs as their dielectric layer and, since capacitance is proportional to the size of the capacitor's dielectric layer, high power applications require capacitors with large ceramic discs. Because ceramics are brittle by nature, it is difficult to make ceramic discs large enough for use in capacitors for high power circuits.","Therefore, there is a need in the art for a feed-through capacitor that is able to work effectively in high power, and particularly high current, circuits. It is also desirable that the feed-through capacitor be simple and inexpensive to manufacture, yet sturdy enough for industrial applications.","The invention is a feed-through capacitor that utilizes a printed wiring board as the capacitive element. The feed-through capacitor is built in the printed wiring board as a multi-layer stack, allowing it to be easily integrated into circuits that are constructed on the printed wiring board. The invention exhibits a high capacitance and avoids the need for brittle and expensive ceramic dielectric layers. As a result, the invention may be used in high power and high current applications for which traditional feed-through capacitors are not suitable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","104","100","100","108","110","112","108","100","114","116","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","108","104","106","100","118","120","116","104","120","100","120","108","112","114","108","120","114","100","120","110","108","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","100","202","204","206","100","106","206","206","206","106","202","206","202","206","206","206","100"]},"Because feed-through capacitor  does not use a ceramic material for its dielectric layer, it is sturdier and lighter than traditional ceramic feed-through capacitors. Also, using a polymer as a dielectric material in feed-through capacitor  allows feed-through capacitor  to be constructed in any printed wiring board. Feed-through capacitor  may be made in any size, limited only by the size of printed wiring boards that can be fabricated. In addition, ceramic capacitors are limited in shape to discs, toroids or blocks, because only simple shapes are practicable for manufacture with ceramics. A printed wiring board capacitor allows the use of almost any shape, because the printed wiring board can be cut into different shapes. Furthermore, ceramic capacitors must, by their nature be relatively thin. In contrast, printed wiring board capacitor  is made of multiple layers of metals and polymers, and thus may be made in any thickness. Also, the use of multiple layers of metals and polymers in printed wiring board feed-through capacitor  allows for the use of a smaller footprint for the capacitor. Instead of making the footprint larger to increase capacitance, as would be necessary with traditional ceramic capacitors, additional layers may be added to printed wiring board feed-through capacitor  to increase capacitance. In some embodiments, multiple printed wiring board substrates and metal layers may be stacked to form the desired feed-through capacitor configuration.","One skilled in the art will recognize that the alternating metal and dielectric layers of feed-through capacitor  can be made from any suitable materials. By way of example, in one embodiment of feed-through capacitor , 0.5 ounce (\u02dc14 gram) copper material of 0.0007 inches (\u02dc0.018 millimeters) in thickness is used for the metal layers  and a polymer of 0.0050 inches (\u02dc0.13 millimeters) in thickness is used for dielectric layer . One embodiment of the capacitor produces a value between 0.0112 to 0.0115 microfarads using polyimide as the dielectric material and 0.0133 to 0.0163 microfarads using FR-4 as the dielectric material.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["302","304","306","304","310","306","312","315","304","306","304","306","302","320","320"]},"By utilizing printed wiring boards as the manufacturing elements for feed-through capacitors, the size of the feed-through capacitor is limited only by the size of the presses which are used to make the printed wiring boards. Traditional feed-through capacitors use a ceramic material for the dielectric layer. Capacitance is proportional to the size of the dielectric layer, and it is difficult to manufacture ceramic discs of a sufficient size for use in high current applications, because ceramic materials are brittle and large ceramic discs will break.","In contrast, the present invention uses a feed-through capacitor built in a printed wiring board. Ceramics are not used, so there is no danger that the ceramic dielectric will break. Therefore, printed wiring board feed-through capacitors are ideally suited for high-current applications. Also, because the invention is manufactured using circuit board fabrication techniques, the invention may be made in many sizes, shapes and thicknesses. It is also less expensive to manufacture than traditional ceramic disc feed-through capacitors.","Furthermore, a printed wiring board feed-through capacitor may be connected to any part of a circuit, in the same manner that other components are connected together in printed wiring board circuit. For example, additional discrete capacitance, or devices for voltage sensing, current sensing or current monitoring could be built onto the printed wiring board in addition to the feed-through capacitor. Thus, for example, a feed-through capacitor could be built onto a certain portion of the printed wiring board, and the feed-through capacitor could be used for other applications that would normally require the addition of multiple capacitors to the printed wiring board. The use of printed wiring board capacitors allows more complex shapes and simplicity of connecting circuit elements in a circuit. In many applications, this more-flexible geometry and ease of connection greatly outweighs the added weight of the printed wiring board feed-through capacitor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["100","402","404","406","408","410","412","100"]},"The invention is a feed-through capacitor that is constructed in a printed wiring board. The capacitor uses alternating layers of metal and a plastic dielectric material. The large number of layers and the flexible geometry of this device allow it to be used in many applications, particularly in those involving high power high current.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
