---
title: Framework for processing and rendering large volume data
abstract: Described herein is a system and method for facilitating large volume data processing and rendering. An exemplary system includes at least one processor coupled to a first memory, wherein the processor is configured to organize the large volume data in the first memory into one or more bricks. In addition, at least one graphics processing unit (GPU) is coupled to the processor and a second memory. The GPU is configured to process at least one or more bricks transferred from the first memory to the second memory to produce intermediate processing results, and to further render the intermediate processing results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08184120&OS=08184120&RS=08184120
owner: Siemens Aktiengesellschaft
number: 08184120
owner_city: München
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20090217
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/054,200, which was filed on May 19, 2008, and which is fully incorporated herein by reference.","This invention relates generally to the field of data processing and, more particularly, to processing and rendering large volume data.","Volumetric data processing and visualization play an important role in medical applications. Depending on the application, various visualization techniques may be employed. For example, direct volume rendering has been used for medical images, such as those acquired with magnetic resonance (MR), computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), or any other medical tomographic scanner capable of producing a series of images in a grid-like array.","Many current medical applications demand high resolution volumetric data. The size of such data sets will likely keep increasing at a high rate due to the advance of scan technology. Recent technological advances in the field of tomographic imaging have greatly improved the spatial resolution and speed of data acquisition, resulting in the production of very large datasets composed of hundreds, and even thousands of images. For example, it is possible to rapidly generate a sequence of 1024 images using the Siemens SOMATOM VolumeZoom\u2122 CT scanner, with each image being composed of a grid of 512\u00d7512 picture elements, resulting in a three-dimensional volume of 512\u00d7512\u00d71024 volume elements (over 268 million data values).","Many toolkits have been proposed for processing and visualizing large volume datasets. For example, the National Library of Medicine Insight Segmentation and Registration Toolkit (ITK) is a software toolkit for performing registration and segmentation of images, while the Visualization Toolkit (VTK) is specifically designed for three-dimensional visualization. However, such toolkits typically handle data processing and rendering separately, and therefore do not allow for the visualization of intermediate results of data processing algorithms.","Direct visualization of segmented or registered data produced during data processing is essential to support doctors in diagnosing illnesses. Therefore, there is a need for a system that integrates data processing and rendering into a single framework to allow for efficient processing and rendering of large volume data and for real-time visualization of the progress of data processing algorithms.","A system and method for processing and rendering large volume data is described herein. An exemplary system includes at least one processor coupled to a first memory, wherein the processor is configured to organize the large volume data in the first memory into one or more bricks. In addition, at least one graphics processing unit (GPU) is coupled to the processor and a second memory. The GPU may be configured to process at least one or more bricks transferred from the first memory to the second memory to produce intermediate processing results, and to further render the intermediate processing results.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, specific numbers, materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods and in order to meet statutory written description, enablement, and best-mode requirements. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present systems and methods may be practiced without the specific exemplary details. In other instances, well-known features are omitted or simplified to clarify the description of the exemplary implementations of present systems and methods, and to thereby better explain the present system and methods. Furthermore, for ease of understanding, certain method steps are delineated as separate steps; however, these separately delineated steps should not be construed as necessarily order dependent in their performance.","The following description sets forth one or more implementations of systems and methods that facilitate a large volume data processing and rendering scheme. In one implementation, the data processing and rendering are integrated to efficiently process and render large volume data sets on the graphics processing unit (GPU). The exemplary framework is configurable to render intermediate results and allow the user to interactively visualize the progress of data processing algorithms in real-time. A bricking or partitioning technique may be used to efficiently handle large datasets that cannot be stored in the GPU memory. In one implementation, the bricking technique organizes the large datasets into one or more data bricks which are non-overlapping. The use of non-overlapping bricks avoids the duplication of data at the brick boundary, thereby advantageously reducing memory space requirements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","104","106","108","104","108","100"]},"The system  may be part of a medical imaging system, such as a diagnostic or therapy ultrasound, x-ray, computed tomography, magnetic resonance, positron emission, or other system. Alternatively, the system  may be part of an archival and\/or image processing system, such as one associated with a medical records database workstation. In other implementations, the system  may be a personal computer, such as a desktop or laptop.","Processor  is a single device or multiple devices operating in serial, parallel, or separately. Processor  may be a main processor of a computer, such as a laptop or desktop computer, a processor for handling some tasks in a larger system, such as in an imaging system, or a processor designed specifically for memory management. Processor  may be a central processing unit (CPU), such as a Pentium\u00ae or similar microprocessor. In one implementation, processor  is configured to efficiently manage large volume data. A partitioning or bricking technique may be used to handle large volume data sets exceeding available GPU memory , by sub-dividing the volume data into chunks or bricks. More details of the data management will be provided below.","GPU  operates as a co-processor of the main CPU  or host. GPU  may be a graphics accelerator chip, processor, application specific integrated circuit, analog circuit, digital circuit, accelerator card, or combinations thereof. In one implementation, GPU  is a personal computer graphics accelerator card or components, such as one manufactured by nVidia (e.g. Quadro FX 4500 or others), ATI (e.g. Radeon 9700 or others), or Matrox (e.g. Parhelia or others). GPU  may be viewed as a computing device capable of executing a very high number of threads in parallel. Data-parallel, computation-intensive portions of applications running on the processor  may be off-loaded onto GPU . A portion of an application that is executed multiple times, but independently on different data, may be isolated into a function that is executed on the GPU  as many different threads. To that effect, such a function is compiled to the instruction set of the GPU  and the resulting program (i.e. a kernel) is downloaded to the GPU .","GPU  is configured to process and render large volume data. Any type of data may be used for volume rendering, such as medical image data (e.g., ultrasound, x-ray, computed tomography, magnetic resonance, or positron emission). The rendering may be from data distributed in an evenly spaced three-dimensional grid, but may also be from data in other formats (e.g., rendering from scan data free of conversion to a Cartesian coordinate format or scan data including data both in a Cartesian coordinate format and acquisition format). GPU  may be configured to perform texture mapping with alpha blending, minimum projection, maximum projection, surface rendering, or other volume rendering of the data.","Main memory  comprises, for example, a random access memory, cache memory of the processor , or other memory devices for storing data or video information. GPU memory  comprises, for example, a parallel data cache or on-chip shared memory with very fast general read and write access. GPU memory  may be a video random access memory, a random access memory, or other memory device for storing data or video information. In one implementation, GPU memory  is a video random access memory of the GPU . Main memory  and GPU memory  are responsive to processor  and GPU  to store, transfer, and retrieve data. In one implementation, main memory  and GPU memory  are operable to store subsets or bricks of data. Each memory ,  is a separate memory pool, such as any continuously addressed memory. Additional or alternative memories may be included, such as a hard drive, flash drive, optical, magnetic, or other now known or later developed memory.","GPU  and\/or the GPU memory  may be included within the system  as part of a single system component, such as a medical diagnostic or therapy imaging system. Alternatively, GPU  and GPU memory  are provided separate from a data acquisition system, such as provided in a workstation or personal computer. The acquired data may be transferred wirelessly, over a computer network, or through a transferable storage medium to GPU .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["102","106","102","202","106","204","208"]},"Data management unit  may be configured to organize large volume data that exceeds a physical single-pass capacity of GPU memory . In one implementation, data management unit  uses a bricking technique to subdivide volume data into one or more bricks or sub-volumes. The bricks may represent linear, planar, or volume arrangements. For example, cubic bricks of voxels in 64\u00d764\u00d764 arrangements may be separated for storage. Tens, hundreds, or thousands of such bricks may be used for a single dataset. The bricks may have the same or different sizes. In addition, the bricks may be non-overlapping, as will be described in more details below.","Data management unit  manages storage of these bricks in order to optimize memory storage and efficiency. The bricks may be stored in main memory , and transferred to GPU memory  before rendering. Part of the volume data may also be cached in GPU memory . In addition, data may be transferred between the processing engine  and the rendering engine  through data copying within the GPU memory  to enable efficient data transfer and high performance. More details of the data transfer between the processing engine  and the rendering engine  will be provided below.","Hierarchical data structures may be used to organize the bricks in main memory . The hierarchical structure may be, for example, an octree, a quadtree or a binary space partitioning (BSP) tree. In one implementation, one or more octrees are generated and traversed by the data management unit . The octree may be traversed based on, for example, the visibility order. In one implementation, an octree structure corresponds to each brick. An octree node represents a sub-volume or cuboid part of the voxel volume, which can be divided into eight parts, each child node corresponding to each part of the voxel volume. Each node includes information associated with the corresponding sub-volume, such as the visibility factor, and\/or minimum and maximum intensity values.","In one implementation, data management unit  organizes GPU memory  into multiple memory portions. The GPU memory allocation may be performed in response to a request by the processing engine  and rendering engine . The request may be sent anytime during, for example, rendering and\/or processing. In one implementation, GPU memory  is divided into first, second and third memory portions. First memory portion may be allocated to store one or more data bricks. When the amount of data exceeds the available storage in GPU memory , bricks are swapped between GPU memory  and main memory . For example, if a requested brick is not resident in the GPU memory , it is loaded from the main memory . The bricks residing in the GPU memory  are swapped on, for example, a Least Recently Used (LRU) basis.","Second memory portion may be allocated to processing engine  for processing data. The size of second memory portion depends on the type of the type of data processing algorithms (e.g., segmentation, smoothing) implemented in the processing engine . Third memory portion may be allocated to rendering engine . For example, third portion may be used as the texture memory in OpenGL. Second and third memory portions may be small relative to the first memory portion because the processing engine  and the rendering engine  process and\/or render a relatively small number of bricks at a time. In one implementation, rendering engine  renders only one brick at a time. Alternatively, in the case of fusing multiple sub-volumes, rendering engine  may require at least one brick for each sub-volume. The rendering brick may be generated on-the-fly by the processing engine . The ratio of sizes of first, second and third memory portions may be about, for example, 90:9:1. Other suitable memory allocations are also useful.","In addition, data management unit  may assign different priorities to identify memory portions that may be overwritten or swapped out when additional memory space is required. For example, first memory portion may be assigned the lowest priority since it is relatively large and thus more likely to contain unused space that may be swapped out. Third memory portion may be assigned the highest priority to avoid swapping out a relatively small memory space. Similarly, second memory portion may be assigned a high priority since it is relatively small. In one implementation, the priority is a range of numbers between 0.0 and 1.0. Three levels of priority are used, with 0.0 being a least priority. Other ranges and\/or number of levels may be also used.","Therefore, if the second and\/or third memory portions are not large enough for processing and\/or rendering the data, data management unit  may free some space from the first memory portion and allocate the freed space to the second and\/or third memory portions. In one implementation, the size of the third memory portion is fixed. Thus, only the processing engine  may request data management  to allocate more memory from the first memory portion to the second memory portion. For example, a processing algorithm implemented in the processing engine  may require access to data from a certain location of the volume. Before accessing the data, processing engine  may check to determine if the corresponding brick resides in the second memory portion. If not, processing engine  may send a request to data management unit  for additional memory allocation, and download the corresponding brick into the allocated memory. Alternatively, data management unit  may free the space allocated to one or more least used bricks to yield memory space.","In one implementation, GPU  implements a processing engine  for handling data processing and a rendering engine  to render the processing results. Data processing includes, for example, three-dimensional (3D) volume processing and two-dimensional (2D) image processing algorithms, such as gradient estimation, min\/max computation, re-sampling and segmentation. Other types of data processing may also be performed.","In one implementation, processing engine  is implemented based on nVidia's Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA). Processing engine  includes, for example, one or more CUDA kernel programs  for processing the data. CUDA is designed for issuing and managing computations on the GPU as a data-parallel computing device without the need of mapping them to a graphics application programming interface (API). CUDA is described in \u201cNVIDIA CUDA Compute Unified Device Architecture Programming Guide Version 0.8\u201d (Feb. 12, 2007), which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes. It should be noted, however, that other compilers or development tools may also be used to implement the processing engine . For example, the processing engine  may be implemented based on a parallel programming framework such as the Open Computing Language (OpenCL).","Processing engine  processes the data to generate processing results. The processing results are then sent to rendering engine  for rendering. The processing results may not necessarily be the final results of the processing algorithm after it is completed. For example, the processing results may be the intermediate results produced by the processing algorithm (e.g., segmentation algorithm) before it is completed. By rendering the intermediate results, the present framework enables the user to interactively visualize the progress of the processing algorithm in real time.","As discussed previously, the processor  may organize the volume data into bricks. Therefore, since the data is stored in bricks, the processing algorithms performed by processing engine  and the rendering algorithms performed by rendering engine  are also brick-based. Due to the discrete nature of the bricks, however, artifacts may be produced at the boundary between the bricks if it is not corrected by interpolation (e.g., convolution kernel). In order to perform interpolation, the rendering engine  may require access to data contained in neighboring bricks. In conventional systems, the bricks stored in the memory have an overlap to ensure proper interpolation during rendering. However, such conventional systems are inefficient particularly in terms of memory requirements since data at the boundary between neighboring bricks have to be duplicated and stored in memory. This memory overhead is especially significant for large volume data sets.","In one implementation, instead of storing overlapping bricks in the memory, the processing engine  is configured to generate the brick boundary dynamically (i.e. on-the-fly) before sending the boundary and the brick containing the processing results to the rendering engine  for rendering. Since the data at the boundary between any two neighboring bricks need not be duplicated and stored in memory, this implementation advantageously requires far less memory space than conventional techniques.","To generate the boundary of the brick currently being processed, the processing engine  (e.g., CUDA kernel program ) may access its neighboring bricks cached in, for example, the first or second portions of the GPU memory. Where cubic bricks are used, for example, the CUDA kernel program  may access all 26 neighboring bricks of the currently processed brick. The availability of the neighboring bricks, however, may depend on the position of the currently processed brick in the volume data set. In situations when the currently processed brick is at the volume boundary, for example, not all the neighboring bricks are available. An empty brick representing the missing neighbor may then be passed to the CUDA kernel program . If the rendering engine  requires gradient data, processing engine  may also apply the gradient calculation kernel to the data.","In one implementation, the size of the rendering brick stored in the third memory portion is larger than the size of the processing brick stored in the second memory portion. The larger rendering brick size may be used to accommodate at least one processing brick and its respective boundary voxels required for interpolation. The boundary voxels may be copied from multiple processing bricks into the rendering brick.","Rendering engine  may be implemented based on the OpenGL graphics system. Rendering engine  includes, for example, one or more OpenGL Shading Language (GLSL) shader programs . The OpenGL graphics system is a software interface to graphics hardware, and is described in, for example, the OpenGL Programming Guide, The Official Guide to Learning OpenGL, Second Edition, Release 1.1, by the OpenGL Architecture Review Board, Jackie Neider, Tom Davis, Mason Woo, Addison-Wesley Developers Press, Reading, Mass. 1997, which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. OpenGL advantageously enables rendering of surface based geometry objects, together with volume objects, with hardware acceleration. It is to be noted that other graphics systems, such as other graphics APIs (e.g., Direct3D) or general purpose GPU API\/libraries (e.g., CUDA or OpenCL) may also be used to implement the rendering engine .","In one implementation, the processing results are rendered using a GPU-based ray-casting algorithm. Ray-casting is a method for direct volume rendering, which can be viewed as a straightforward numerical evaluation of the volume rendering integral which sums up optical effects, such as color and opacity, along viewing rays. Other types of rendering techniques may also be used. The GLSL shader programs  may be configured to perform the ray-casting algorithm, and to provide different rendering features and\/or use different input data. For example, within the same rendering pass, the input data for different bricks from the processing engine  may be different. Some bricks may have a segmentation mask, while other bricks may not. Thus, the rendering engine  may select the corresponding GLSL shader programs based on, for example, the input data and the required rendering features.","In addition, the rendering engine  may be configured to perform other general volume visualization algorithms, for example, minimum intensity projections (MinIP) and maximum intensity projections (MaxIP). The processing engine  may be configured to apply post processing on the rendering results from the rendering engine . Examples of post processing algorithms include smoothing or sharpening to improve the quality of the image.","One advantage of the present framework is the low cost of communicating the processing results between the processing engine  and the rendering engine . In one implementation, the processing results are stored in the GPU memory shared between processing engine  and rendering engine . The bandwidth of the GPU memory is very high, typically over 100 GB\/s. By maintaining the processing and rendering engines (, ) within the same processing device (GPU) and sharing the same GPU memory, the cost of communicating the processing results between the processing engine  and the rendering engine  is advantageously low.","For example, where the processing engine  is implemented based on nVidia's Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) and the rendering engine  is implemented based on OpenGL, data communication between processing engine  and rendering engine  may be implemented using the OpenGL pixel buffer object (PBO). Processing results from processing engine  may be copied into a PBO and transferred to rendering engine  for rendering by OpenGL. The OpenGL PBO may be mapped into the address space of CUDA, either to enable CUDA to read data written by OpenGL or to enable CUDA to write data for processing by OpenGL.","The exemplary framework described herein is flexible enough to implement a wide variety of medical applications. For example, an automated virtual colonoscopy system may be implemented using the exemplary framework to visualize the progress of a parallel region growing algorithm for colon segmentation in real-time. One major advantage of the framework is that data processing algorithms may be efficiently implemented, and the intermediate and final processing results can be directly visualized. For example, segmentation algorithms may be implemented and the segmentation process may be interactively visualized. These features are especially advantageous for medical applications, which require the handling of high resolution volume data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1-2"],"b":"100"},"Referring to , an exemplary method  of processing and rendering large volume data is illustrated. At , processor  organizes large volume data which may exceed the physical single-pass capacity of GPU memory . This may be done using, for example, the bricking technique to subdivide the volume data into one or more bricks. The one or more bricks are stored in main memory  and may be organized by the processor  using, for example, octrees or any other multi-level data structures. In one implementation, the bricks are non-overlapping.","At , processor  organizes GPU memory  into multiple portions. In one implementation, processor  organizes the GPU memory  into at least first, second and third memory portions. First memory portion may be allocated, for example, to store one or more data bricks swapped from main memory . Second memory portion may be allocated, for example, to processing engine  for processing data. Third memory portion, for example, may be allocated to rendering engine  to be used as, for example, texture memory.","In addition, processor  may assign different priorities to the memory portions to identify portions that may be overwritten or freed up when additional memory space is required. For example, first memory portion (used to store bricks) may be assigned the lowest priority. Processor  may reallocate freed up space in first memory portion to processing engine  or rendering engine  in response to a request for additional space.","At , one or more bricks are transferred from the main memory  to a first portion of the GPU memory . Since GPU  processes the data brick by brick, the required temporary storage space in the GPU memory  is only allocated for the one or more bricks and but not the whole volume.","At , one or more bricks transferred from the first memory portion to a second memory portion of the GPU memory are processed by the processing engine  of the GPU  to generate processing results. The processing results include intermediate processing results produced by processing algorithms before completion. Processing includes, for example, performing three-dimensional (3D) volume processing and two-dimensional (2D) image processing algorithms, such as gradient estimation, min\/max computation, re-sampling and segmentation. Other types of data processing may also be performed.","In one implementation, neighboring bricks stored in the main memory  and GPU memory  are non-overlapping. In order to ensure correct interpolation, the processing engine  may generate the boundary between the currently processed brick and the neighboring bricks before sending the boundary and the processing results to the rendering engine  for rendering. The processing engine  may generate the brick boundary dynamically or on-the-fly. The processing engine  may access the neighboring bricks cached in, for example, the first or second portions of the GPU memory, to generate the brick boundary. In one implementation, the dynamic boundary generation is performed by CUDA kernel program .","At , the intermediate processing results transferred from the second memory portion to the third memory portion are rendered by the rendering engine  of the GPU . Rendering includes, for example, performing ray-tracing and other visualization techniques. In one implementation, GLSL shader programs  are used perform the rendering. GLSL shader programs  may provide different rendering features and\/or use different input data. In one implementation, the processing engine  is further configured to apply post processing on the rendering results from the rendering engine .","An implementation of the large volume data processing and rendering method  may be described in the general context of processor-executable instructions, such as event modules, executed by one or more computers, or other devices or processors. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.","An implementation of the large volume data processing and rendering method  may be stored on some form of processor storage media. Processor storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a processor, including volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as processor readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Processor storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.","Although the one or more above-described implementations have been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological steps, it is to be understood that other implementations may be practiced without the specific features or steps described. Rather, the specific features and steps are disclosed as preferred forms of one or more implementations."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like elements and features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
