---
title: Systems and methods for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optic probe
abstract: Systems and methods for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optic probe are disclosed. One self-calibrating fiber optic probe includes a sensing channel for transmitting illumination light to a specimen and for collecting spectral data of the specimen. The spectral data includes the illumination light diffusely reflected from the specimen at one or more wavelengths. The self-calibrating fiber optic probe may also include a calibration channel for transmitting calibration light. The calibration light and the illumination light are generated simultaneously from a common light source. The calibration channel collects calibration spectral data associated with the calibration light contemporaneously with the collection of the spectral data of the specimen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08804115&OS=08804115&RS=08804115
owner: Duke University
number: 08804115
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090427
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/047,818, filed Apr. 25, 2008, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. 1R01CA100559 awarded by NIH. Thus, the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.","The subject matter disclosed herein relates to optical spectroscopy and calibration techniques pertaining to fiber optic measurement instruments. More particularly, the subject matter disclosed herein relates to systems and methods for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optic probe.","Diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) is sensitive to the absorption and scattering properties of biological molecules in tissue and therefore can be used as a noninvasive in vivo tool to obtain quantitative information about the physiological and morphological properties (e.g., biomarkers) of human tissue. Thus, DRS can be utilized specifically as a diagnostic tool to detect various diseases that alter human tissue properties. Potential clinical applications of DRS include precancer detection and cancer diagnostics, intraoperative tumor margin assessment, and monitoring of tumor response to chemotherapy. Fiber optic probes are commonly used to deliver illumination light to, and collect diffusely reflected light from, a tissue specimen for DRS measurements. However, in order for DRS to be utilized in a clinic, frequent calibration is typically required to correct or compensate for a number of factors, such as lamp intensity fluctuations, wavelength-dependent instrument response, interdevice variations, and fiber bending losses that occur while a measurement is taken.","Calibration techniques presently used by biophotonics researchers typically rely on measurements using power meters, reflectance standards, and\/or tissue phantoms (i.e., models that simulate human tissue and blood vessels). These calibration procedures are usually performed after the clinical measurements are completed. One particular DRS calibration method involves a two-step calibration procedure that utilizes the measured spectra of a spectrally flat diffuse reflectance standard (i.e., a reflective Spectralon puck) and a phantom of known optical properties in order to obtain the absolute reflectance spectra of a tissue sample. For example, a calibrated reference phantom spectrum is obtained by dividing the collected phantom spectrum with the collected puck spectrum. Similarly, a calibrated tissue spectrum is obtained by dividing a collected tissue spectrum with a second collected puck spectrum (i.e., a 2nd spectrum measurement of the same calibration puck). More specifically, calibration is performed by dividing the tissue spectra point by point by the spectra of the puck. Afterwards, a ratio of the calibrated tissue spectrum and the calibrated reference phantom spectrum is input into an inverse Monte Carlo model, which in turn extracts the optical properties of the tissue.","The aforementioned calibration of the tissue spectrum against a reference phantom is needed to put the experimental and Monte Carlo simulated data on the same scale. This is typically necessary no matter what type of calibration method is employed. However, the calibration of the tissue spectra and reference phantom spectra to the puck spectra is carried out to account for day-to-day system variations that occur between the time of the tissue measurement and the time of the reference phantom measurement.","There are a number of limitations associated with spectral data calibration methods currently utilized. Notably, these calibration methods fail to correct or compensate for real-time system fluctuations, such as variations in lamp intensity. For example, a given DRS illumination source typically requires at least 30 minutes of warm-up time to prevent significant light intensity fluctuations. However, the 30 minute warm-up period can pose considerable unwanted delays in a clinical setting, such as an operating room. Remarkably, light intensity of a light source can change as much as 25% during the warm-up period and even 3% afterwards. These variations in intensity are significant considering a 5% change in light intensity can introduce approximately 20% error in the extraction of optical properties from a tissue sample.","Another problem that arises in optical spectroscopy is the error caused by bending the optical fibers of the probe. Sharp bending frequently occurs in clinical applications, such as endoscopy, where the fiber optic probe is manually handled. For example, bending the detection arm (all 200 \u03bcm fibers) of the probe to a diameter of 3 cm (three turns) causes 6% light intensity attenuation, while bending the probe even further to a diameter of 2 cm can cause 11% attenuation in light intensity. As mentioned above, a 5% change in intensity can result in approximately 20% error in extracted optical properties from a tissue specimen.","Traditional calibration techniques typically rely on measurements from tissue phantoms and\/or a diffuse reflectance standard that are usually performed after the clinical measurements are completed. Although these traditional calibration methods are successful in correcting instrument throughputs and remove day-to-day system drifts, none of the calibration methods are able to correct for real-time lamp fluctuations and fiber-bending loss while the specimen measurement is made. Similarly, all traditional calibration methods require at least 30 minutes for warming up the light source and a time-consuming calibration test procedure that is separate from the collection of the tissue sample spectra. As indicated previously, the reduction of unnecessary delays or procedures is extremely desirable in a clinical setting.","Thus, there remains a need for an improved system and method for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optical probe.","The subject matter described herein includes systems and methods for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optical probe. According to one aspect, the self-calibrating fiber optic probe includes a sensing channel for transmitting illumination light to a specimen and for collecting spectral data of the specimen, wherein the spectral data includes the illumination light diffusely reflected from the specimen at one or more wavelengths. The self-calibrating fiber optic probe may also include a calibration channel for transmitting calibration light, wherein the calibration light and the illumination light are generated simultaneously from a common light source, and collecting calibration spectral data associated with the calibration light contemporaneously with the collection of the spectral data of the specimen.","The subject matter described herein includes systems and methods for performing optical spectroscopy using a self-calibrating fiber optic probe. The present subject matter includes a fast, robust, and systematic calibration approach that can be used for correcting spectral data of a specimen obtained in real-time and with different instruments and probes. More specifically, the present subject matter includes a fiber optic probe with self-calibration capability configured for performing diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS). The probe includes a built-in calibration channel that can be used to record the light source spectrum and instrument-fiber responses contemporaneously with tissue spectra measurements. Combined with a one-time single-reference phantom measurement, the self-calibrating fiber optic probe can provide instrument-independent optical properties.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","100","104","108","110","112","108","110","102","114","104","116","108","106","118","104","100","108","110","102"]},"The illumination fiber leg  of probe  may include illumination source fiber , for illuminating the sample, and calibration source fiber , for internal calibration. In one embodiment, each of illumination source fiber  and calibration source fiber  are 600 \u03bcm diameter fibers. In another embodiment, a plurality of 200 \u03bcm diameter illumination source fibers (instead of a single 600 \u03bcm diameter illumination source fiber) and\/or at least one 200 \u03bcm diameter calibration source fiber (instead of a single 600 \u03bcm diameter calibration source fiber) may be used for increased instrument flexibility. The collection fiber leg  may include eight detection fibers  that are coupled to spectrograph  and are configured to collect the diffusely reflected light from sample  at one or more wavelengths. In one embodiment, detection fibers  are 200 \u03bcm diameter fibers. Collection fiber leg  may also include at least one calibration return fiber  for collecting the calibration light (which, like the illumination light, is generated by light source ) reflected by a reflective element  (see ) and transmitting the reflected light to imaging spectrograph . In one embodiment, calibration return fiber  also comprises a 200 \u03bcm diameter fiber. Although cross-sectional view  shows one calibration return fiber , additional calibration return fibers may be used. For example, additional calibration return fibers may be implemented as backup return fibers (in case a primary return fiber fails) or if additional calibration channels are to be implemented in system . In one embodiment, all the fibers are made from the same materials (e.g., same fiber clad, core, etc.) and have the same numerical aperture (NA) for an identical bending response. In another embodiment, the at least one calibration source fiber  and the at least one illumination source fiber  are constructed from the same type of materials and include identical numerical apertures, core diameters and clad diameters and the at least one detection fiber and the at least one calibration return fiber are constructed from the same type of materials and include identical numerical apertures, core diameters and clad diameters (i.e., the source fibers may be different from the calibration return and detection fibers).","In one embodiment, the collected diffuse reflectance and beams of calibration light carried by the calibration return and detection fibers are diffracted and projected onto different areas of CCD camera  and recorded by processing unit . In one embodiment, a two-dimensional CCD camera  operates in a multi-track manner that enables it to obtain both the specimen spectrum and calibration spectrum (i.e., spectral data from light carried in calibration return fiber ) simultaneously. There may be an equivalent of one, but not limited to one collection fiber spacing between the self-calibration and sensing areas on the CCD with no measurable cross talk. In one embodiment, a miniature spectrometer may be used for each channel (i.e., the sensing channel and calibration channel). Practically speaking, the at least one calibration return fiber may be coupled to a first spectrometer, while the at least one detection fiber may be coupled to a second spectrometer. Similarly, the at least one calibration return fiber and the at least one detection fiber may each instead be respectively coupled to a separate and dedicated spectrograph and\/or photodetector.","Once the spectral data is received by the processing unit  from the spectrograph  and CCD camera , processing unit  may ultimately execute an algorithm to interpret the spectral data and extract the optical properties of sample  from the probe measurements. In one embodiment, the algorithm may include a Monte Carlo algorithm that is executed by processing unit . Similarly, the Monte Carlo algorithm may also include an inverse Monte Carlo reflectance algorithm or an inverse Monte Carlo fluorescence algorithm. An exemplary Monte Carlo algorithm suitable for use with the subject matter described herein is found in international patent application number PCT\/US2007\/006624 to Palmer and Ramanujam and U.S. patent application publication 2006\/0247532 to Ramanujam et al. An exemplary scaling method for expediting calculations performed in the Monte Carlo algorithm is described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60\/903,177, filed Feb. 23, 2007. In an alternative embodiment, a diffusion algorithm or an inverse diffusion algorithm may be used instead of a Monte Carlo algorithm.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["102","102","102","222","106","223","224","235","235","222","114","116"]},"In addition to having two physical optical fiber groupings, fiber optic probe  may also comprise two separate \u201cchannels\u201d, each of which is distributed between both the illumination fiber leg  and collection fiber leg . Namely, a self-calibrating fiber optic probe may include a sensing channel and a built-in calibration channel. In one embodiment, the sensing channel includes at least one illumination source fiber (e.g., illumination source fiber ) that traverses illumination fiber leg  and at least one detection fiber (e.g., detection fibers ) that traverses collection fiber leg . Similarly, the calibration channel may comprise at least one calibration source fiber (e.g., calibration source fiber ) that traverses illumination fiber leg  and at least one calibration return fiber (e.g., calibration return fibers ) that traverses collection fiber leg . In one embodiment, the self-calibrating probe can be used to concurrently measure the spectral data of light source  and the spectral data of sample . Notably, this configuration is advantageous in a clinical setting because the configuration accounts for the real-time light source intensity fluctuations and fiber bending loss (i.e., light intensity fluctuations caused by bending the instrument). For example, the bending effect on illumination source fiber  is assumed to be the same as that of calibration source fiber . Also, light source warm-up time and separate calibration measurements are also unnecessary with a self-calibrating fiber optic probe. In addition, the sensing channel and the calibration channel may also refer to a first CCD channel on CCD camera  that includes all the detection fibers binned together and a second CCD channel on CCD camera  that includes all the calibration return fibers binned together as depicted in cross-sectional view  in .","Fiber optic probe  may also include rigid elements - (e.g., t-tubes and ferrules) that provide stability and\/or interfacing capability for fiber optic probe . Rigid probe tip  may include a plurality of fibers arranged in a configuration as shown in cross-section  (see ), which comprises an illumination source fiber  and eight detection fibers . In one embodiment, rigid probe tip  is 9.3 cm long and has a diameter of 2.1 mm and can fit within the lumen of a 14 gauge biopsy needle cannula. Although only one source fiber and eight detection fibers are displayed in , any probe tip geometry employing any number of source fibers and detection fibers may be used without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. For example, the illumination core may include a plurality of smaller illumination fibers (i.e., instead of a single illumination source fiber ) to obtain an illumination core diameter that maximizes the coupling efficiency for the light source, and the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for fluorescence measurements (if applicable). In one embodiment, illumination source fiber  is used to emit light on a tissue specimen (e.g., sample ) to be examined. The light may be generated by light source  and provided directly to illumination fiber leg  of fiber optic probe  or via a monochromator (not shown). Specifically, light is emitted into the ends of illumination source fiber  and calibration source fiber  (i.e., into the common open-ended terminus of ferrule ). Notably, the light carried by illumination source fiber  and calibration source fiber  is characterized by the same spectral data.","After the light is emitted by the illumination source fiber  on sample , at least one detection fiber  captures the reflected light (i.e., spectral data of sample) which may ultimately be provided to spectrograph  via the fiber array shown in cross-sectional view  (see ), which is associated with the open-ended terminus of ferrule  (see ). Notably, the end of detection fiber  in fiber array depicted in cross-sectional view  corresponds to a terminus of a detection fiber  in probe tip cross-sectional view  (i.e., each individual detection fiber runs the entire length of collection fiber arm  and main portion  of probe ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["106","122","124","114","122","224","118","124","224","124","302","302","302","128","128","108"]},"In one embodiment, calibration source fiber  and calibration return fiber  may comprise the same exact fiber (i.e., a source\/return calibration fiber). For example, a single source-return calibration fiber may originate from light source , enter housing section , and bent or looped back in such a manner that the calibration source\/return fiber exits housing section . That is, the calibration source-return fiber is bent within housing section  in the fiber optic probe such that the calibration source fiber functions as the calibration return fiber (since a mirror or other reflective element is not used). The calibration fiber would then be configured to interface with spectrograph  via collection arm . Notably, reflective element  would not be utilized in this particular embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","104","122","118","118","126","108"]},"At the same time the illumination light from light source  traverses illumination source fiber , light (i.e., calibration light) is traversing calibration source fiber . More specifically, the calibration light and the illumination light are generated by light source  at the same time and contemporaneously traverse illumination fiber leg . While the light traversing illumination source fiber  proceeds to sample , the light in calibration source fiber  is directed to reflection element . The reflected light from calibration source fiber  is then directed to and received by calibration return fiber , which in turn carries the reflected light to spectrograph . In one embodiment, spectrograph  receives the reflected light in calibration return fiber  contemporaneously with the diffusely reflected light carried by detection fibers .","In block , the collected spectral data is processed to derive calibrated specimen spectral data. In one embodiment, the specimen spectral data (i.e., diffusely reflected light) is divided by the calibration spectral data (i.e., reflected light from calibration return fiber ) on a spectrum point by point basis to obtain calibrated specimen spectral data. This calibration of the specimen spectral data is performed to account for real-time intensity fluctuations of the light source and fiber bending effects, as well as wavelength dependent system response in system .","In one embodiment, the calibration spectral data may have a correlation factor applied before being processed with the specimen spectral data. Because the calibration channel may have wavelength responses that differ from the wavelength responses exhibited in the sensing channel, the wavelength response in the calibration channel may require correction and\/or compensation. For example, to correct the calibration channel's wavelength dependence, a spectral measurement may be taken from a reflectance standard (e.g., a Spectralon puck), which is characterized by a flat wavelength response. A correction factor may be generated for each probe by dividing the spectral data of the reflectance standard by the self-calibration spectrum (e.g., the spectral data of the light provided to spectrograph  by calibration return fiber ) concurrently obtained with the spectral data of the reflectance standard. For example, the correlation factor may be the ratio, F(\u03bb)=[R(\u03bb)]\/[R(\u03bb)], which serves as correction of the calibration channel in terms of wavelength response. Notably, this correlation factor need only be determined once and can be used for the lifetime of a given self-calibrating fiber optic probe.","In block , the self-calibration spectral data and reference spectral data are used to derive calibrated reference spectral data. In one embodiment, reference spectral data includes spectral data of a phantom (i.e., a model that simulates human tissue and blood vessels). The reference spectral data is also divided by the aforementioned self-calibration spectral data (with or without the application of the correlation factor) on a spectrum point by point basis to obtain calibrated reference spectral data. Although method  depicts block  being performed after block , the collection of the reference spectral data is a one time procedure for each probe and instrument combination and may instead be performed before block  without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.","In block , the calibrated spectral data is input into an algorithm. In one embodiment, both the calibrated tissue spectral data and the calibrated reference spectral data respectively obtained in block  and  are input into an inverse Monte Carlo model algorithm executed by processing unit .","In block , optical properties of the specimen are extracted. In one embodiment, once the calibrated spectral data is processed via the inverse Monte Carlo model, the processing unit  is configured to derive optical properties (e.g., scatterers and absorbers) of sample .","It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiments of the subject matter described herein will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
