---
title: System and a machine-readable medium for processing an on-line payment without authenticating the user
abstract: A easy authentication or payment is made by creating an account associated with a particular web browser or device that accesses an on-line page. Payments are made, such as for full-access viewing of an article or viewing content without visible ads, by selecting a payment button on the on-line page. Selection can be with a specific swiping motion or device motion previously defined for the user. Once selected, the payment is made without the user having to authorize or authenticate. The motion can be used independently to authorize or authenticate the user through the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147210&OS=09147210&RS=09147210
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09147210
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/229,668, filed Jul. 29, 2009, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/229,661 filed on Jul. 29, 2009.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to on-line financial transactions and more particularly to making payments with seamless user authentication.","2. Related Art","In on-line financial transactions, customers search for and purchase products and services through electronic communications with on-line merchants over electronic networks, such as the Internet. During the course of these transactions, customers may provide payment in various ways including, for example, credit cards, electronic fund transfers, and other payment techniques offered by on-line payment providers.","However, on-line payments typically require the user to log into an account or provide some form of authentication before the payment is processed. For example, the user may need to enter an identifier, such as a username or email, and\/or a password or PIN. Even after login, the user may need to confirm a payment, such as clicking or selecting a button or icon. This can be tedious, especially with large numbers of payments, where the payment amount is not large.","Methods and systems of the present disclosure provide a \u201cwallet\u201d or \u201cpurse\u201d that is associated with a particular machine, device, or web browser, such as Internet Explorer, where the wallet can be used to make payments for goods or services without the user having to go through several steps to authenticate the payment. In one embodiment, the user creates and pre-funds an account associated with the wallet, through a payment provider, such as PayPal, Inc. of San Jose, Calif. The amount funded can be a small amount, such as $5, determined by the user or by the payment provider. The funding can be through an account of the user with the payment provider or an outside funding source, such as a bank account or credit card. The user may have multiple wallet-accounts, one for each different machine, device, or browser. Each account is associated with a machine, device, or browser, such as by the user creating the account through the particular machine, device, or browser. The payment provider communicates with the machine, device, or browser, such that when the user logs into the machine, device, or browser, an icon, button, or other indicator of the \u201cwallet\u201d or \u201cpurse\u201d appears. In this way, the funds are associated to a particular machine-browser combination (or other such combinations) and thus provides against fraudulent use of the account since the fraudulent party would have to take possession of the machine to \u201cauthenticate.\u201d","After logging in to the machine, the user, when using the specific device, machine, or browser, can select the icon to make a purchase. The user may indicate the amount of purchase or the purchase amount may be automatically indicated when an item or service is selected. The amount is deducted from the user's specialized account, and payment is made to a merchant, host, or developer. Thus, the user is able to purchase services\/items on web sites by leveraging the machine-browser to authenticate with the payment provider. Because the wallet is associated with the machine, device or browser, the machine, device, or browser has its own stored value. This makes minor purchases much easier for the user.","In another embodiment, a unique motion of a mouse, pointer, or device that is associated with a user and device enables the user to be authenticated if the motion matches what is expected. For example, a user may \u201cregister\u201d a motion with a system, such as a payment provider. When the user wishes to access the system and\/or device, the user performs the motion. The system compares the motion with a stored motion and determines whether the user is the registered user. If so, access is granted. This may also be used to enhance the seamless authentication embodiment above. Other ways to enhance security may include flash-stored objects, browser-based cookies, and hardware\/software \u201cfingerprints\u201d (e.g., unique code of the motherboard).","With \u201cauthentication\u201d associated with the device or browser and\/or seamless authentication using a defined motion, the user is provided with the ability to be authenticated without formal authentication (such as entering a user name and\/or password). Both methods, either alone or in combination, thus enable a seamless or non-formal user authentication that still provides security for the user. The security is desirable for the user for many reasons, including the fact that funds that are debited and credited are real funds so that any fraudulent payments may go to many different accounts\/merchants and will result in real cash losses for the user. This in contrast with virtual currency, which typically is only usable or has value at a particular merchant site.","These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Exemplary embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures, wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating exemplary embodiments and not for purposes of limiting the same.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104"]},"Once the user determines the item or service for purchase, the user may make the payment using conventional methods, such as placing the item\/service in a cart and going through a check-out process, including entering payment information and authorizing payment. This can be cumbersome and time-consuming. However, if the user has a specialized account with a payment provider that is associated with the Internet browser or device used to access the Internet, the user may pay for the item or service quickly and easily without authorization. First, though, the user must have this specialized account set up, which is determined at step . This specialized account may be referred herein to as a \u201cwallet,\u201d a \u201cpenny jar,\u201d or \u201ccoin purse.\u201d","In one embodiment, the user can determine if a wallet has been created or set up by seeing if an icon or button appears on the on-line site or other indicator, such as upon access or login of the site. If the wallet has not been created or set up with a payment provider, such as PayPal, Inc. of San Jose, Calif., the user creates the wallet at step . Creating the wallet can be done in many different ways, as long as the wallet or account is associated with a particular user device or Internet\/web browser. In one example, the user logs onto the payment provider site and either creates or accesses the user's account from the user's device. The user then creates a wallet account, such as selecting from a drop-down menu, clicking on a link, or selecting an icon. The user may then be asked to enter a device identifier, or the payment provider may simply necessary information from the device and\/or Internet browser. The wallet may then be funded through the payment provider site from any acceptable funding source, such as the user's bank account, an account with the payment provider, or a user credit card. The user may specify an amount to be funded, such as $5 or other relatively small amount, or the funding amount may be pre-set by the payment provider at a relatively small amount. Once created, the wallet associated with a particular web browser, such as Windows Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Google Chrome, and\/or Opera, or device, such as the user's desktop computer, laptop, and\/or mobile smart phone. The unique account may also be created through a hardware and\/or software characteristics of the user device, alone or in combination with the specific device or browser. Note that the user may have multiple wallets, each associated with a particular browser or device.","Once a wallet is created, a button or icon is added to the user's browser page, such as in a toolbar, which appears when the user accesses a site through the specific browser or through the user's device. For example, Microsoft may add a wallet icon or button as part of the toolbar for its Internet Explorer. Other indicators of the wallet may also be suitable. Along with the icon or button, an amount remaining in the wallet may also be displayed. Thus, each time the wallet is used to make a payment, the amount is updated to reflect a current balance.","After a wallet is created, a determination is made at step  whether there are sufficient funds in the wallet to make the selected purchase. Because the current balance is readily visible by the user, the user can easily determine if there are sufficient funds. In another embodiment, the merchant, content provider, payment provider, or other party may make this determination, based on the cost of the selected item or service and the remaining balance in the user's wallet account. If there are insufficient funds, the user funds the wallet at step  if the user wishes to proceed with the purchase.","Funding the wallet may be performed in various ways. In one example, the user clicks on a \u201cTools\u201d button on the tool bar of the web browser. The menu in \u201cTools\u201d includes a \u201cPennies,\u201d \u201cWallet,\u201d or other name that identifies the wallet. Once selected, a screen may be displayed with information about the wallet, current balance, prior purchases with the wallet, previously selected items\/services not yet paid for, and a button to add funds. To add funds, the user may click or select the \u201cAdd Funds\u201d button, which may then provide the user with various options for adding funds. This may include the user's bank account, a credit card, or a separate account with the payment provider. Depending on the funding source selected, the user may then enter the requested information, such as account information, user name, password, billing address, or any combination thereof. The user may also select the amount to add, which may be capped at an amount set by the payment provider.","Instead of selecting from a tool bar, the user may also fund the wallet account using a drop-down menu from the wallet icon or button. For example, an arrow may be selected to display the drop-down menu, which may then provide the user different options, including adding funds to the account. Conventional ways of adding funds may then be used, such as described above. In another example of funding the wallet, the user may log into the user's payment provider account, select the wallet account, and add funds through the payment provider site. Again, once the desired wallet account is selected, funds can be added by any suitable method from different funding sources. In another embodiment, the wallet may be set up so that pre-funding is not required or just an initial pre-fund is required. In these cases, the account may be post-paid, with payment triggered by different events, such as maximum amount reached, a time period reached, a combination thereof, or any other desired trigger.","Once there are sufficient funds in the wallet account to make the desired payment, the user makes the payment for the selected item or service at step . There may be numerous ways for the user to make the payment, without authentication. In one embodiment, the user simply clicks or taps on the wallet button to make the payment. In another embodiment, the user slides the mouse or a finger across the button to make the payment. These \u201cone-act\u201d methods are easy for the user to quickly make a payment. Once the user performs this affirmative action to make the payment, payment is transferred from the user's wallet account to the appropriate party. The current balance may be updated on the page, and the user can either view the paid-for content or use whatever item or service the user just purchased.","Because the wallet is only funded with a relatively small amount, e.g., $5, fraudulent or unauthorized payment is not a major concern. For example, if the user's device was stolen or otherwise used by an unauthorized user, the unauthorized user may still make payments from the user's device using the wallet account because no authentication is required, other than logging into the device or browser if needed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","200","202"]},"Once the user selects the wallet using a particular motion, a determination is made, at step , whether a motion has previously been defined for the device, user, or web browser. In other words, a motion had to have been already defined before a determination can be made as to whether the user motion in step  matches what is expected. If no motion has been defined, the motion is defined at step . This may be accomplished in various ways. For example, the motion used at step  may be recorded or otherwise stored as the user-defined motion, or the user may be asked to repeat the motion to confirm. If the motion is the same, within tolerances, the motion is recorded or stored. If the motion is not the same, within tolerances, the user may be asked to make the motion again or to start over with a new motion. Thus, the user motion can be defined without leaving the desired page, i.e., it is done on the same page or site as where the user is attempting to make the payment.","For more security, the motion may be defined by requiring the user to define the motion in the payment provider site of the wallet. In this situation, the user logs into the payment provider site, such as entering in a user name and password\/PIN, and selecting the desired wallet account. The user then selects an option for creating or defining a user specific motion. The user may be asked to perform the motion one or more times over a sample wallet payment button to define the user motion. Requiring the user to perform the motion more than once enables the system to record variations of the user, such that a more accurate determination can be made when the user performs the motion for payment. In general, the more movements required to define the motion, the more precise or accurate the system can determine when a user performs the proper motion. In one embodiment, the motion definition is on-going rather than a one-time process. For example, each time the user properly performs the motion for payment, the system factors that motion with the stored motion(s) to change the defined motion as needed. This allows any variations from the user, such as due to arthritis, unstable device when performing the motion (such as if the user makes such payments on the move, such as on a plane, in a car, walking, etc.), and any other reasons that may be due the user's personal changes or changes in the user environment.","In addition to motions made on or over a screen, either by a mouse, point, or finger, motions of the device may also be used. For example, there are mobile devices that can detect motions of the device, such as the iPhone by Apple and the Wii by Nintendo. A user may shake or move the device with a certain speed, acceleration, motion, and\/or rotation. These attributes may be recorded, as with the screen motion, and used as a way to authenticate or further authenticate a user. With device motions, there may be greater tolerances of acceptable motions, due in part to wider variations of the motion and the precision such motions can be detected by the device and compared by the system.","Once a motion is defined, a determination can be made, at step , as to whether the user motion at step  matches the defined motion associated with the device, user, or web browser. A match or acceptance may be determined by comparing the user motion with what has been defined. The comparison may be done with standard pattern\/motion comparison algorithms, which may factor in tolerated variances. If the motion matches or is acceptable, the payment is processed at step , such as by debiting the amount from the user's wallet account and transferring the amount to the merchant, browser, or other third party account. If there is no match, as determined at step , the user may be asked to perform the motion again. There may be a limit as to how many times a user may re-try the motion before the session is terminated or the request is finally denied. In some embodiments, the user may be asked for authentication, such as user name and password\/PIN, if the motion is not being accepted. This situation may arise if the user has forgotten the motion or is not performing it with the required amount of accuracy. If the user is authenticated using other means, the user may be given an option of adding the motion just attempted (but failed) or adding a new motion to a list of accepted motions or to replace any pre-existing or pre-defined motions.","In another embodiment, authentication through motion can be implemented as a separate form of authentication\/payment and does not need to be part of the wallet described above. Used alone, the user may be authenticated or payment authorized using a unique motion that the user defines or chooses. Thus, there is no need for the motion authentication to be part of a wallet, small payment account, or device\/browser identification.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","400","404","406","408","402","402","402"]},"Customer device  may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and\/or software configured for wired and\/or wireless communication over network . For example, customer device  may be implemented as a personal computer, mobile device such as a cell or smart phone, or a laptop of a customer or user  in communication with network . Customer device  may include one or more browser applications  which may be used, for example, to provide a user interface to permit user  to browse information available over network . For example, browser application  may be implemented as a web browser, such as Windows Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Google Chrome, and\/or Opera, to view information available over the Internet.","Customer device  may include one or more toolbar applications , which may be used, for example, to provide client-side processing for performing tasks in response to operations selected by user . For example, toolbar application  may display a graphical user interface (GUI) in connection with browser application . Customer device  may also include a plug-in module  for facilitating financial transactions over network . In one implementation, plug-in module  comprises a software program, such as a graphical user interface (GUI), executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more servers  and payment provider server  via network . User  is able to access on-line sites via servers  to view and select items\/content for purchase, and user  is able to purchase selected items\/content by communicating with the payment provider server  via a network browser, such as a web browser.","Customer device  may include other applications  as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to user . For example, such other applications  may include security applications for implementing customer-side security features, programmatic customer applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs) over network  or various other types of generally known programs and\/or applications.","Customer device  may include one or more user identifiers , which may be implemented, for example, as operating system registry entries, cookies associated with browser application , identifiers associated with hardware of customer device , or various other appropriate identifiers. User identifier  may include attributes related to the user, such as personal information (e.g., a user name, password, photograph image, biometric id, address, phone number, etc.) and banking information (e.g., banking institution, credit card issuer, user account numbers, security information, etc.). In various implementations, user identifier  may be passed with a user purchase request to payment provider server , and user identifier  may be used by payment provider server  to associate user  with a particular user account maintained by payment provider server .","The one or more servers  may be maintained, for example, by one or more merchants or content providers offering various items, such as products, services, and\/or content, in exchange for financial payment to be received from users, such as user , over network . In this regard, each of the one or more servers  may include a database  for identifying available products, services, and\/or content, which may be made available to customer device  for viewing and\/or purchase by user . Accordingly, each of servers  may include a marketplace\/content application , which may be configured to provide information over network  to browser application  of customer device . For example, user  may interact with marketplace\/content application  through browser application  over network  to search and view various items, content and\/or services identified in database .","Server  may include a checkout application , which may be configured to facilitate online purchase transactions by user  of products, content, and\/or services identified by marketplace application . In this regard, checkout application  may be configured to accept payment information from user  and\/or from payment provider server  over network , such as described above. Server  may also include one or more identifiers , which may be included as part of the one or more items, services, or content made available for purchase so that particular items, services, or content are associated with particular parties. Identifier  may include attributes related to the party, such as business and banking information. In various implementations, identifier  may be passed with a user purchase request to payment provider server  when user  selects an item, service, or content for purchase, and retailer identifier  may be used by payment provider server  to associate a particular item, service, or content purchased with a particular retailer account maintained by payment provider server . Checkout application  may also include pattern and motion recognition software to detect and compare a user motion with a defined motion stored with server  or with payment provider server .","Parties having a related server  may need to establish an account with payment provider server  so that payment server provider  is able to process transactions having items, services, or content offered for purchase by the parties. When establishing an account, the party may need to provide business information, such as name, address, phone number, etc., and financial information, such as banking information, merchant account information, credit card information, payment processing information, etc. Server  may be associated with a particular link (e.g., a link, such as a URL (Uniform Resource Locator) to an IP (Internet Protocol) address). In this regard, payment provider server  may optionally redirect browser application  to an appropriate web page and\/or retailer site of server  to facilitate purchase of a corresponding item and\/or service available from retailer server .","Payment provider server  may be maintained, for example, by an online payment service provider, which may provide payment processing for online transactions on behalf of user  to an operator of server . Payment provider server  may include one or more payment applications , which may be configured to interact with customer device  and\/or each of servers  over network  to facilitate the purchase of items, products and\/or services by user  from server . In one example, payment provider server  is provided by PayPal, Inc.","Payment provider server  may be configured to maintain a plurality of user and retailer\/third party accounts , each of which may include account information  associated with individual users, including user , and the one or more on-line retailers\/content providers associated with servers , For example, account information  may include private financial information of user  and third parties, such as one or more account numbers, passwords, credit card information, banking information, or other types of financial information, which may be used to facilitate online transactions between user  of the customer device  and one or more retailers\/content providers associated with servers . As such, payment application  may be configured to interact with the one or more servers  on behalf of user  during a transaction with checkout application  without requiring user  to provide account information  directly to server . Payment provider server  may also include a content processing application , which may select content from a content database  to be provided to user . Content processing application  may provide appropriate rules-based or heuristics-based facilities for selecting appropriate content for user  based on, for example, user identifier , user account , user account information , information received from server , or other characteristics. Content processing application  may also include pattern and motion recognition software to detect and compare a user motion with a defined motion stored with server  or with payment provider server ","Payment provider server , through payment application , user\/retailer accounts , content processing application , and content database , may provide the no-authentication payment with or without a user-defined motion, as described above. For example, payment provider server , based on communication with server  and customer device , detects a transaction from a specific user device or web browser and processes a payment with a user acknowledgement, such as a swipe across a wallet payment button.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","404","406","408","404","406","408","404","406","408","500"]},"In one embodiment, computer system  may include a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information, which interconnects subsystems and components, such as a processing component  (e.g., processor, micro-controller, digital signal processor (DSP), etc.), a system memory component  (e.g., RAM), a static storage component  (e.g., ROM), a disk drive component  (e.g., magnetic or optical), a network interface component  (e.g., modem or Ethernet card), a display component  (e.g., CRT, touch-screen, or LCD), an input component  (e.g., keyboard or keypad), and\/or a cursor control component  (e.g., mouse or trackball). In one embodiment, disk drive component  may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.","Computer system  may perform specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component , according to steps described above with respect to . Such instructions may be read into system memory component  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage component  or disk drive component . The various storage or memory components may be used to store the user's defined motion or pattern. In other embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention.","Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium, which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. In various implementations, non-volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive component , volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory component , and transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus . In one example, transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Some common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.","In various example embodiments, execution of instruction sequences for practicing embodiments of the invention may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments, a plurality of computer systems  coupled by communication link  (e.g., network  of , LAN, WLAN, PTSN, or various other wired or wireless networks) may perform instruction sequences to practice the invention in coordination with one another.","Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, information and instructions, including one or more programs (i.e., application code) through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as received and\/or stored in disk drive component  or some other non-volatile storage component for execution.","Where applicable, various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware, software, or combinations of hardware and software. Also, where applicable, the various hardware components and\/or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software, hardware, and\/or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable, the various hardware components and\/or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub-components comprising software, hardware, or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition, where applicable, it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice-versa.","Software, in accordance with the present disclosure, such as program code and\/or data, may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and\/or computer systems, networked and\/or otherwise. Where applicable, the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed, combined into composite steps, and\/or separated into sub-steps to provide features described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6D","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIGS. 6C and 6D","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D"],"b":["600","600","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7C","FIG. 7A"],"b":["702","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["702","706","702","702","708","702","702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 7C"},"The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and\/or modifications to the present invention, whether explicitly described or implied herein, are possible in light of the disclosure.","Having thus described embodiments of the invention, persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus, the invention is limited only by the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
