---
title: Favorites list sharing
abstract: Techniques are described to share items from a favorites list. In an implementation, a list entry for a favorites list may be associated with content from a third party source by a first user. The favorites list may be presented in a webpage to display the list entry and the associated content to another user. A control operable to share the list entry with the other user may be exposed with the list entry. Responsive to operation of the control, the content and/or related data may be obtained from the third party source and data may be stored to associate the list entry including the obtained content with the other user. In at least some embodiments, the control is operable by a single-click to cause the sharing of the list entry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230238&OS=09230238&RS=09230238
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09230238
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090310
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example Environment","Example Procedures","List Sharing Implementation Examples","Example Device","Conclusion"],"p":["The popularity of social networking via online networking sites is ever increasing. One way that people use social networking sites is to share information such as recommendations, pictures, videos, notes, discussions, and so forth on personal pages.","Sometimes, a person may come across an item on a friend's page that they like and would like to include on their own page. Using a traditional approach, the person may copy the item to their computer, navigate away from the friend's page to their own page, and then upload the item to be included on the page. As such, it may be quite inconvenient and disruptive for the user to place an item from a friend's page on their own page using this traditional approach.","Techniques are described to share items from a favorites list. In an implementation, a list entry for a favorites list may be associated with content from a third party source by a first user. The favorites list may be presented in a webpage to display the list entry and the associated content to another user. A control operable to share the list entry with the other user may be exposed with the list entry. Responsive to operation of the control, the content and\/or related data may be obtained from the third party source and data may be stored to associate the list entry including the obtained content with the other user. In at least some embodiments, the control is operable by a single-click to cause the sharing of the list entry.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Overview","One way that people use social networking sites is to share information such as recommendations, pictures, videos, notes, discussions, and so forth on personal pages. Sometimes, a person may come across an item on a friend's page that they would like to have on their own pages. Accordingly, the person may copy the item to their computer, navigate away from the friend's page to their own page, and then upload the item to be included on the page. Consequently, this traditional approach to sharing items may be quite inconvenient and disruptive for the user.","Techniques are described to share items from a favorites list. In an implementation, a list entry for a favorites list may be associated with content from a third party source by a first user. The favorites list may be presented in a webpage to display the list entry and the associated content to another user. A control operable to share the list entry with the other user may be exposed along with the list entry in the webpage. When the other user operates the control, the content may be obtained from the third party source. Then, data may be stored to associate the list entry including the obtained content with the other user.","For example, Steve may have social networking profile page through a service provider that includes a list of some of Steve's favorite things, such as music, movies, and books. Steve may author a list entry on this list by selecting items, typing in titles, and so forth. For instance, Steve may author an entry to include \u201cU2\u201d as one of his favorite bands. When authoring the \u201cU2\u201d entry, Steve may associate additional content with the entry through an affiliate provider. By way of example, Steve may obtain album artwork, band images, audio clips, descriptions, and\/or other content from the affiliate provider to include with the \u201cU2\u201d entry. The \u201cU2\u201d entry including the association to content from affiliate provider may be stored in an account with the service provider that Steve uses to access his profile page.","When Steve's friend Tad navigates to Steve's profile page he may see Steve's favorites list including the \u201cU2\u201d entry. The \u201cU2\u201d entry may appear with a control, such as an \u201cAdd\u201d button, that Tad may select to add a \u201cU2\u201d entry to his own favorites list. When Tad clicks on the \u201cAdd\u201d button, a list sharing module may operate to obtain content associated by Steve with the \u201cU2\u201d entry from the affiliate provider. The list sharing module also creates a list entry that is associated with the obtained content in an account corresponding to Tad. In at least some embodiments, the control is operable by a single-click to cause operation of the list sharing module to share the \u201cU2\u201d entry. Moreover, the list sharing module may operate in the background so that Tad's interaction with Steve's profile page is not disrupted. In this manner, Tad is able to recreate the \u201cU2\u201d entry authored by Steve in his own favorites list including the associations to content made by Steve.","In the discussion that follows, a section entitled \u201cExample Environment\u201d describes an example environment and devices, which may be employed to provide favorites list sharing in various embodiments. Following this, a section entitled \u201cExample Procedures\u201d describes example techniques related to favorites list sharing in accordance with one or more embodiments. After that, a section entitled \u201cList Sharing Implementation Examples\u201d describes example devices modules, and user interfaces that may be configured to enable favorites list sharing. Last, a section entitled \u201cExample Devices\u201d is provided and describes example devices that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","108","108","108","108"]},"For the purposes of the following discussion, a referenced component, such as service provider , may refer to one or more entities, and therefore by convention reference may be made to a single entity (e.g., the service provider ) or multiple entities (e.g., the service providers , the plurality of service providers , and so on) using the same reference number.","The service provider  may have one or more processors  and memory . Service provider  is depicted as storing a service manager module  in the memory  that is executable via the one or more processors . Service manager module  represents functionality operable by service provider  to manage various services  that may be made available over the network . For example, various services  may be provided via webpages , or other user interfaces, that are communicated over the network for output by the one or more clients . Service manager module  may manage access to the services , performance of the services , configuration of webpages  to provide the services , and so on.","Some examples of services  include, but are not limited to, a search service, an e-mail service to send and receive e-mail, instant messaging service to provide instant messages between clients , and a social network service to facilitate connections and interactions between groups of users who share common interests and activities. The social network service may assist users in connecting to a group, provide a variety ways for users to interact (e.g., group e-mail, website, blog, messaging) and provide recommendations to the groups based on shared interests and activities. In at least some embodiments, social network service may also be configured to enable creation and sharing of favorites lists in accordance with techniques described herein. Additional examples of services  include a shopping service, a weblog service, productivity service, authentication service, a news service, and an advertisement service, to name a few.","The authentication service may be provided by the service manager module  to authenticate clients to access various services  that may be provided by one or more of the service providers . For example, a client  may provide a username and password that is authenticated by the authentication service. When the authentication is successful, the authentication service may pass a token to enable access to corresponding services . Authentication of the client  to an account may provide access to a single corresponding service provider  and\/or service . Additionally or alternatively, a single authentication may correspond to many services , such that authentication to a single account provides access to many service providers  and\/or to an entire suite of services .","Service manager module  may also manage an accounts database  that may be configured to store a variety of data related to user accounts with the one or more service providers . By way of example and not limitation, accounts database  is depicted as storing account identifiers  that may be used for authentication and access control (e.g., unique account IDs, usernames, passwords, and so on), list entry data  that may define favorites lists associated with accounts, and profile data  that may correspond to personal pages accessible through a social networking service and\/or other services . A variety of other data  is also contemplated, including service authorizations, user preferences, program files such as documents and spreadsheets maintained online, and other data typically associated with user accounts.","Service provider  is also depicted as storing a list sharing module  in memory  that is executable via the one or more processors  to implement aspects of favorite list sharing described herein. In an embodiment, functionality represented by the list sharing module  may be implemented as an application programming interface (API) that may be made accessible to the clients  over the network .","The one or more clients  are depicted as having one or more processors  and memory . Memory  is depicted as storing another list sharing module  that may be deployed to the client  and is executable via the one or more processors  to implement \u201cclient-side\u201d aspects of favorites list sharing described herein. In an embodiment, functionality represented by the list sharing module  may be implemented as a script that is included with a webpage  provided by the service provider . Further discussion regarding the operation and configuration of one or more list sharing modules  in various embodiments may found in reference to the following figures.","To enable various communications over the network , the one or more clients  may also include a communication module . Communication module  is depicted as being stored in memory  and is also executable via the processor  to provide various interactions with service providers  and\/or services . Examples of such interaction include, but are not limited to, communicating one to another, navigating content, searching webpages, accessing services , interacting with a social networking site, performing searches, instant messaging, e-mail, and so forth. Communication module  may be implemented as a browser or other suitable application to obtain and output webpages  from the service provider  over the network . Communication module  may also represent a component of another application used to obtain one or more services  from the service providers . For example, communication module  may be configured as a component of a desktop social networking application of a client .","As noted above, content selections associated with items in a favorites list may be obtained from third party sources, such as the one or more affiliate providers  depicted in the environment . The one or more affiliate providers  are depicted as having one or more processors  and memory . Memory  may store a variety of content  including content  that may be associated with items in a favorite list. Examples of content  that may be obtained for inclusion in a favorites list include album artwork, band images, book images, artist\/author pictures, audio\/video clips, descriptions, content metadata (e.g., dates, filenames, chapters, titles, author, notes, publisher, source), and so forth.","Content  of an affiliate provider may be identified via a corresponding affiliate item identifier . The affiliate item identifier  may be included with list entry data  that defines a favorites list. In this way, content  from the one or more affiliate providers  may be included in a favorites list exposed on webpages . The affiliate item identifiers  included with list entry data  may then be employed to share list items and corresponding content  between users.","Having considered devices and components of an example environment, consider now example procedures for favorites list sharing that may be implemented in the environment using the example components, as well as in other environments.","The following discussion describes techniques for favorites list sharing that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware, firmware, software, or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion, reference may be made to the example environment  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","102","130"]},"A favorites list item that includes content from an affiliate provider is associated with a user (). For example, a user, such as Steve in the example above, may interact with a communication module  of a client  to obtain webpages  from a service provider . In at least some embodiments, the webpages  may be exposed in the course of Steve's interaction with a social networking service available from the service provider . Through interaction with the webpages , Steve may make selections to create a favorites list including the entry for \u201cU2\u201d. This may include creating list items and associating the list items with content  that is available from one or more affiliate providers . For instance, Steve may use communication module  to interact with affiliate providers  to obtain an image of the band \u201cU2\u201d to include with a list entry. The favorites list of Steve may be defined by way of list entry data  that is stored with an account corresponding to Steve.","A webpage having the favorites list item and the content is presented to another user (block ). For example, Tad (a friend of Steve's) may interact with a communication module  of a client  to obtain a webpage  that corresponds to a profile page of Steve's. The profile page may be configured to include Steve's favorites list having the entry for \u201cU2\u201d. The favorites list entry for \u201cU2\u201d may be presented in the webpage  with the band image that Steve selected.","A control is exposed that is operable to share the favorites list item with the other user (block ). In the above example, the webpage  obtained by Tad may include a control with the entry for \u201cU2\u201d. The control may be configured in a variety of ways. For instance, the control may be a button, a selectable link, an icon, a menu item, or another suitable control exposed via the webpage . The control may be configured such that when Tad selects to control, the entry for \u201cU2\u201d created by Steve is shared with Tad. Thus, operation of the control by Tad may cause an entry for \u201cU2\u201d to be stored in association with a favorites list corresponding to Tad. In at least some embodiments, the control can be configured to cause sharing in response to a single-click and without further action by Tad. Accordingly, Tad may be able to continue to interact with the webpage  and\/or other webpages without having to be interrupted.","In particular, responsive to operation of the control, the favorites list item is shared with the other user (block ). To do so, data related to the content included with the favorites list item is obtained through interaction with the affiliate provider (block ) and the favorites list item is generated for the other user based upon the obtained data (block ). In the continuing example, responsive to operation of the control by Tad, a list sharing module  may operate to cause an associated list item to be shared with Tad. The list sharing module  may be operable by a client , by a service provider , and\/or in combination thereof. Generally, list sharing module  operates in the background to recreate one or more selected list items responsive to interaction of a user with a suitably configured control.","In at least some embodiments, the list sharing module  may make use of list entry data  to perform the sharing. List entry data  may include, among other things, metadata associated with list items, affiliate item identifiers , content  and\/or links to content that is associated with a list item, user comments, and so forth. In one example, one or more affiliate item identifiers  may be obtained from list entry data  that corresponds to a list item. The list sharing module  may cause communication over the network  with one or more affiliate providers  to obtain data related to content . In an example, the associated affiliate item identifiers  may be used to lookup content from the affiliate providers . Additionally or alternatively, uniform resource locators (URLs) and\/or search data may be generated based on list entry data  to obtain corresponding data related to content  from one or more affiliate providers . Data related to content  may include the content  and\/or various data that describes the content such as identifiers, links, navigation paths, storage locations, access permissions, content metadata, and so forth.","In the above example, list entry data  corresponding to the \u201cU2\u201d entry created by Steve may be employed to obtain a band image of \u201cU2\u201d selected by Steve for the entry. List sharing module  may then operate to generate a list entry for Tad that corresponds to the \u201cU2\u201d entry authored by Steve. One way this may occur is by adding to list entry data  that corresponds to an account of Tad's with a service provider  to recreate the list item as authored by Steve. The list entry data  that is added may be configured based upon data obtained from the affiliate provider .","For instance, a list entry may be generated to include content  that is obtained from the affiliate provider . Additionally or alternatively, the list entry may incorporate various data that describes the content  and\/or enables to content  to be retrieved in conjunction with rendering a corresponding favorites list for a webpage . As noted above, creation of the list item can occur without action of a user apart from selection of the control. Thus, in the above example, Tad is able to continue interacting with various webpages . When Tad decides to view his own favorites list in a webpage , a \u201cU2\u201d entry may appear as it was authored by Steve.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","104","130"]},"As discussed in relation to , a client may output a webpage corresponding to a user that includes a favorites list of the user (block ). The webpage may expose a control that is operable to share an item in the favorites list having content from an affiliate provider with another user (block ). For example, a profile page or other page having the favorites list corresponding to Steve may be output by communication module  at a client  operated by Tad. One or more list items on Steve's profile page may appear with corresponding controls operable by Tad (or another user) to share the items.","Responsive to operation of the control, the client may be configured to cause the item to be added to a favorites list of the other user (block ). In the preceding example, this may involve creating a list item and an association to content  via list entry data  that corresponds to an account of Tad with a service provider . One way this may occur is through operation of a list sharing module  that is executed at the client . Additionally or alternatively, selection of the control may cause communication over the network  by communication module  to cause execution of a list sharing module  of a service provider . In each case, list sharing module  is operable to obtain content  and\/or associated data corresponding to a list item from one or more affiliate providers . List sharing module  is also operable to add a list item that includes, or is otherwise associated with, the obtained content . For instance, list sharing module  may update list entry data  associated with Tad's account to recreate the \u201cU2\u201d entry that was authored by Steve.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","400","130","104","102"]},"A selection is detected of a control that is operable to share a favorites list of a user with another user (block ). In accordance with the previously discussed example, a profile page or other webpage  having a favorites list corresponding to Steve may be output by communication module  at a client  operated by Tad. When Tad selects a control exposed on the webpage  that is configured to share an item of Steve's favorites list, the selection of the control may be detected. One way this may occur is by operation of a suitably configured list sharing module . For instance, a call may be made to cause execution of the list sharing module  at a client  or at a service provider  in response to selection of the control.","Content from an affiliate provider is identified that is associated with the item by the user (block ). As noted previously, content  that is associated with a list of items may have corresponding affiliate item identifiers . These affiliate item identifiers  may be included with list entry data  that defines a favorites list. In response to operation of the control to share an item, corresponding affiliate item identifiers  may be extracted from items appearing in the webpage . This may occur initially when the control is selected through operation of the communication module  and\/or the list sharing module . In addition to affiliate item identifiers , list entry data  may include uniform resource locators (URLs) and\/or search data that may be used to identify one or more affiliate providers . Thus, various identifying data may be employed to identify content  included by users with list items and\/or corresponding affiliate providers .","In an embodiment, list sharing module  may be configured to perform a lookup on the accounts database  of a service provider  to obtain data that corresponds to a list item selected to be shared in response to selection of the control. In this embodiment, the list sharing module  may extract account data associated with the selected list item and a corresponding user account to perform the lookup. For example, list items authored by Steve and\/or webpages  on which they appear may be associated with one or more unique identifiers that may be employed to lookup data corresponding to Steve in the accounts database . The account data used to perform such a lookup may be encrypted using various techniques to provide security. Naturally, trusted sources such as service providers  and\/or list sharing module  may be capable of decrypting the account data to perform the lookup just described, to provide services , and so forth.","Using the various identifying data, interaction occurs to obtain data describing the content from the affiliate provider (block ). In the continuing example, data suitable to identify an affiliate provider  as the source of the band image used by Steve to create his \u201cU2\u201d list entry may be obtained in response to Tad's selection to share this item. Through interaction with the affiliate provider , the band image and\/or various data describing the band image may be obtained for inclusion in a favorites list corresponding to Tad.","In particular, list sharing module  may be configured to interact with one or more affiliate providers  to obtain content  and\/or associated data describing the content . One way this may occur is by using the various identifying data that is obtained in block . In at least some embodiments, sharing module  may perform a lookup on the one or more affiliate providers  using the affiliate item identifiers  to obtain corresponding content . This may involve communicating requests for content  over the network  using the URLs from the list entry data . Additionally or alternatively, sharing module  may send a search request using search data to obtain corresponding content  from the one or more affiliate providers . In one example, content requests may be sent directly to individual affiliate providers . In another example, list sharing module  may interact with a service that is configured to look for content  that is available from the one or more affiliate providers . In each case, one or more affiliate providers  may return various data describing the content  (e.g., URLs, links and\/or content locations to enable retrieval of the content, affiliate item identifiers , permissions, metadata) to the list sharing module  in response to the requests. Additionally or alternatively, the affiliate provider  may return the corresponding content .","The item is recreated as an item in a favorites list of the other user (block ). In the preceding example, this may involve creating a list item for \u201cU2\u201d and an association to content  (e.g., the band image) via list entry data  that corresponds to an account of Tad with a service provider . The list item for Tad may be recreated to match the list item authored by Steve. To do so, the list item may be associated with the band image using data obtained through interaction with a corresponding affiliate provider .","For instance, list entry data  corresponding to a user may be configured to define a list item that is shared from another user. The content  and\/or associated data that is obtained through interaction with an affiliate provider  may employed to associate the list item with the content . In at least some embodiments, content  may be included as part of the list entry data . Additionally or alternatively, the content  may be maintained in another storage location (e.g., a content store) and links, navigations paths, or other suitable data describing the content  may be included in the list entry data . The storage location may be network storage of the content provider , an affiliate provider , memory  of a client , or another suitable storage location.","Having considered examples procedures related to favorites list sharing, consider now example implementations of devices, modules, and user interfaces that may be employed to provide techniques for favorites list sharing in one or more embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","104","118","502","118","502","124","142","502","118","504","502","118","130","506","506","102","104","118","130","508","102","104","508","130","108","104","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","504","118","502","506","508","504","510"]},"In act \u201cB\u201d, service provider  obtains various data to share the item selected by the user . This data may include list entry data , affiliate URLs, search data, and\/or affiliate item identifiers . Service provider  may obtain the various data via operation of the API . Alternatively, the data may be communicated to the service provider  by execution of the script  at the client .","In act \u201cC\u201d, the various data is employed to search one or more affiliate providers  for corresponding content . For instance, a lookup for content  may occur as discussed above in relation to . In act \u201cD\u201d, search results and content  are obtained in response to the lookup. The content  may then be included with or otherwise associated with a list item that is created for the user  to correspond to the item selected from the webpage  of user . In act \u201cE\u201d, data is stored to add the selected item to a favorites list associated with the user . In particular, list entry data  corresponding to the user  may be updated in an accounts database  to include an entry for the shared item from user . This may involve combining data describing list entries of user  obtained in act \u201cB\u201d with data related to content  obtained from an affiliate provider  in step \u201cD\u201d to generate corresponding list entries for user . A favorites list of the user  may then be configured to include the favorites item selected from the user  and the content  that was associated with the item by the user .","In an embodiment, the various acts depicted in  may be performed via the API  of the service provider . In another embodiment, the script  executed via client  may operate to search for and obtain content  through direct communication with the affiliate providers  and without the involvement of a service provider . Then, communication with the service provider  may occur to cause list entry data  of the user  to be updated to add the selected item. As noted, modules deployed to both a client  and a service provider  may also operate in conjunction to perform various acts and techniques for favorites list sharing described herein.","Referring now to , an implementation  is illustrated showing an example webpage  that is operable to share a favorites list item. The webpage  in this instance is illustrated as incorporated within a user interface  that may be provided by the communication module . For example, the communication module  may be configured as a browser operable to expose the user interface  to enable interaction with one or more service providers  and corresponding services . To provide the interaction with services , the user interface  includes a menu bar , an address bar , and a navigation bar . The menu bar  is a portion of the user interface  that includes drop-down menus of commands, examples of which are illustrated as \u201cfile\u201d, \u201cedit\u201d, \u201cfavorites\u201d, \u201ctools\u201d and \u201chelp\u201d. The address bar  is configured to receive inputs to navigate to particular network addresses and\/or display current network addresses, from which, the client  has received content that is being displayed. The navigation bar  may be operable to navigate to interact with a service provider  in various ways including selecting various services , searches for webpages , obtaining different webpages  corresponding to a social networking service, and so forth.","In the example of , the webpage  within the user interface  is configured as profile page for a user Steve that may be exposed via a social networking service or other service . Although depicted as being part of the user interface  of a browser, a user interface comparable to the webpage  may also be provided by standalone applications of the client , such as a desktop social networking application. In each case, the webpage  may make use of a list sharing module  to enable favorites sharing techniques discussed herein.","In particular, the webpage  includes a favorites list  to organize, present, and\/or interact with a list of favorite items corresponding to the user Steve. In the depicted example, the favorites list includes favorite music entries for \u201cFoo Fighters\u201d and for \u201cU2\u201d. A favorite movie entry for \u201cCaddyshack\u201d also appears. These list entries, as well as others, may be defined in an account corresponding to Steve via list entry data . As illustrated, Steve has associated an image with each of the entries. To do so, Steve may have selected images available from one or more affiliate providers . The list entry data  may include affiliate item identifiers  for each of the items. The affiliate item identifiers , as well as other suitable identifying data, may be employed for sharing the list items as previously discussed.","Note that a control  configured as an \u201cAdd\u201d button appears with each entry. These controls  may be operable to share a corresponding list item. Thus, when Steve's friend Tad selects the \u201cAdd\u201d button next to the \u201cU2\u201d entry, the \u201cU2\u201d entry and the associated band image selected by Steve will appear in Tad's favorites list via the techniques described herein. Controls  may also appear in other locations within the webpage , such as those depicted by entries in the \u201cWhat's New\u201d section. Further, sharing operations may also be accessible via items in the menu bar  and\/or the navigation bar . In at least some embodiments, one or more controls  may be included in the webpage  that are configured to cause sharing of multiple favorites list items. For example controls such as a \u201cShare All Music\u201d control, \u201cShare All Movies\u201d, and\/or a \u201cShare All\u201d control may be exposed in addition to, or in lieu of, controls  appearing with each item. Thus, multiple items may be shared through operation of a single control .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["700","700","104","102","106"]},"Computing device  includes one or more processors or processing units , one or more memory and\/or storage components , one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices , and a bus  that allows the various components and devices to communicate one to another. The bus  represents one or more of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus  can include wired and\/or wireless buses.","Memory\/storage component  represents one or more computer storage media. Memory\/storage component  may include volatile media (such as random access memory (RAM)) and\/or nonvolatile media (such as read only memory (ROM), Flash memory, optical disks, magnetic disks, and so forth). Memory\/storage component  may include fixed media (e.g., RAM, ROM, a fixed hard drive, etc.) as well as removable media (e.g., a Flash memory drive, a removable hard drive, an optical disk, and so forth).","One or more input\/output devices  allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device , and also allow information to be presented to the user and\/or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard, a cursor control device (e.g., a mouse), a microphone, a scanner, and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device (e.g., a monitor or projector), speakers, a printer, a network card, and so forth.","Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally, software includes routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media may include a variety of available medium or media that may be accessed by a computing device. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprise \u201ccomputer-readable storage media\u201d.","Software or program modules, including the list sharing module , communication module , service manager module , and other program modules, may be embodied as one or more instructions stored on computer-readable storage media. Computing device  may be configured to implement particular functions corresponding to the software or program modules stored on computer-readable storage media. Such instructions may be executable by one or more articles of manufacture (for example, one or more computing device , and\/or processors ) to implement techniques for favorites list sharing, as well as other techniques. Such techniques include, but are not limited to, the example procedures described herein. Thus, computer-readable storage media may be configured to store instructions that, when executed by one or more devices described herein, cause various techniques for favorites list sharing.","Computer-readable storage media includes volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer-readable storage media can include, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, hard disks, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or another tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.","Although the favorites list sharing techniques have been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the favorites list sharing techniques."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is described with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The use of the same reference numbers in different instances in the description and the figures may indicate similar or identical items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
