---
title: Hydrogels with release element
abstract: An adhesive hydrogel dressing as well as methods of applying the dressing to a patient. The dressing generally comprises an adhesive hydrogel pad, a backing layer, and an adhesive layer on the backing layer facing the hydrogel pad. The adhesive layer and backing layer form a perimeter around the hydrogel pad and hold the hydrogel pad in place on an application surface. A release element is in contact with at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09457123&OS=09457123&RS=09457123
owner: 3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY
number: 09457123
owner_city: Saint Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090923
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","EXAMPLES","T-Peel Test Method","Example 1","Example 2","Control","Example 3","Example 4","Example 5","Example 6","Example 7"],"p":["This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT\/US2009\/057983, filed Sep. 23, 2009, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/099,584, filed Sep. 24, 2008, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.","Hydrocolloid adhesive compositions that are formed as dressings have been known for many years. Typically, these compositions comprise a blend of a polymer matrix, such as a rubbery elastomer like polyisobutylene, in combination with one or more water-soluble or water-swellable hydrocolloids, such as a dry powdered mixture of pectin, gelatin and carboxymethylcellulose. The adhesive composition is usually coated on at least one surface of a water-insoluble film to form a relatively thick, heavy dressing.","Commercially available examples of hydrocolloid dressings include \u201cDUODERM\u201d and \u201cDUODERM EXTRA-THIN\u201d dressing (a product of Convatec; Squibb and Sons, Inc., Princeton, N.J.; 3M TEGADERM Hydrocolloid dressing (a product of 3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.); RESTORE dressing (a product of Hollister, Inc., Libertyville, Ill.); and COMFEEL dressing (a product of Coloplast International, Espergaerde, Denmark). See, also, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,909,244; 5,447,492; and 5,106,629.","The TEGADERM Hydrocolloid dressing has a thin, adhesive coated polymeric backing extending beyond the edges of the absorbent hydrocolloid pad to form a border that will adhere to the skin and provide a barrier to outside contamination as well as keep wound fluid contained providing for a longer wear time as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,436,432 and 6,264,976. A carrier frame surrounds the perimeter of the dressing, providing sufficient support (e.g. rigidity) to the backing to facilitate handling of the dressing during application to a wound.","Several contoured hydrocolloid adhesives used as medical dressings are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,867,742; 5,133,821 (a process for making by an in-line process a contoured hydrocolloid adhesive dressing); U.S. Pat. No. 7,217,853 (dressing or patch with a tapered edge); U.S Patent Application Publication No. 2003\/0125680; and EP Patent No. 0919211 A2. Despite these advances, a need remains for conformable dressings, particularly in an island dressing format.","The invention provides an adhesive hydrogel island dressing and delivery system that facilitates removal of a release liner from the adhesive hydrogel dressing during application and subsequently during removal from a patient. An adhesive hydrogel pad is provided with a release element along at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal. The release element disrupts the shear force that would otherwise occur in removing the release liner from the dressing. Disruption of shear force minimizes damage to the dressing (e.g., separation of the adhesive hydrogel from the backing layer or irreversible distortion of the dressing) during application of the dressing as well as assists in removal of the dressing from a patient.","In one embodiment, an island dressing is provided, comprising a backing that comprises a first major surface; an adhesive located on the first major surface of the backing; a hydrogel island pad proximate the first major surface of the backing, wherein the hydrogel comprises less than 45% water; and a release liner; wherein at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad contains a release element proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal.","In another embodiment, an island dressing is provided, comprising a backing that comprises a first major surface; an adhesive located on the first major surface of the backing; a hydrogel island pad proximate the first major surface of the backing; and a release liner; wherein at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad contains a release element proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal; and wherein the average maximum peel force to initiate separation of a one-inch wide hydrogel pad without a release element from a release liner is at least 25% greater than the average maximum peel force of the hydrogel pad with a release element from the release liner, when measured by the T-peel Test Method performed after conditioning the island dressing for one week at 50 degrees C.","In another embodiment, an island dressing is provided, comprising a backing that comprises a first major surface; an adhesive located on the first major surface of the backing; an adhesive hydrogel island pad proximate the first major surface of the backing; and a release liner; wherein at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad contains a release element proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal and such substrate extends beyond the perimeter of the hydrogel and is affixed to the backing layer.","As used herein \u201chydrogel,\u201d and \u201chydrophilic gel\u201d refers to a continuous phase of a hydrophilic polymer that is capable of swelling on contact with water and other hydrophilic swelling agents. The term is used regardless of the state of hydration. Useful hydrogels will absorb at least 40% by weight based on the hydrogel's weight in an anhydrous state. Hydrogels are hydrophilic polymers characterized by their hydrophilicity (i.e., capable of absorbing large amounts of fluid such as wound exudate). The hydrogels are typically transparent or translucent, regardless of their degree of hydration. Hydrogels are generally distinguishable from hydrocolloids, which typically comprise a hydrophobic matrix that contains dispersed hydrophilic particles.","These and various other advantages and features characterizing the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and forming a part hereof. However, for a better understanding of the invention, its advantages, and objects obtained by its use, reference should be made to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are illustrated and described.","While the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms, specifics thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the intention is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.","The present invention is directed to an adhesive hydrogel dressing as well as to methods of applying the dressing to a patient, and removing the dressing from a patient. The dressing generally comprises an adhesive hydrogel pad, a backing layer, and an adhesive layer on the backing layer facing the hydrogel pad. The adhesive layer and backing layer form a perimeter around the hydrogel pad and hold the hydrogel pad in place on a surface. The perimeter formed by the adhesive layer and backing layer keeps the hydrogel pad properly positioned, and also helps maintain a sterile environment around the application surface.","The adhesive layer and backing layer are typically extremely thin, and generally very flexible. If the adhesive layer and backing layer are not properly supported during application they can easily fold over and adhere to themselves, preventing proper application over a surface. The adhesive layer and backing layer are optionally supported by a removable carrier attached to the top face of the backing layer. A release liner is provided to contact the adhesive and the adhesive hydrogel pad. Both the release liner and conformable backing layer coated with the adhesive extend beyond the edges of the hydrogel pad.","The adhesive hydrogel composition is integral with at least a portion of the hydrogel pad's edge having a release element adhered the edge of the hydrogel proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal. In some cases the release element extends beyond the edge of the hydrogel pad and may or may not adhere to the backing layer as well. The release element overcomes the problems with poor or inconsistent liner release that can occur with low modulus, highly conformable adhesive hydrogel compositions, such as those described herein. While not being bound by theory, the hydrogel compositions, after aging under low humidity conditions, can exhibit liner lock-up. Liner lock-up is generally considered the inability to remove the release liner without damaging or irreversibly distorting the dressing, which can result in dressing application failures.","Liner lock-up of the hydrogel pad on the release liner can occur for at least two reasons. First, the hydrogel composition, upon exposure to aging conditions (e.g., at least one week at less than 50% relative humidity at room temperature) will lose volatile components, such as water. The loss of volatile components results in shrinkage of the hydrogel composition, thereby generating a concave meniscus of the hydrogel bridging the backing layer and release liner, as shown in .","Second, the hydrogel composition typically has residual elasticity with an elastic recovery or shrinkage. In some embodiments, the hydrogel compositions comprise internal stress forces that have built through processing of the hydrogel compositions to form, for example, a pad construction of the hydrogel. After processing, these internal stresses cause the hydrogel compositions to experience shrinkage as the internal stresses act as a force causing elastic recovery of the hydrogel.","The effect of both moisture removal and internal stresses can separately, or in combination, affect meniscus formation. The volume movement or shrinkage of the hydrogel composition may be governed similarly to laminar flow of a viscous fluid under Poiseuille's law. Poiseuille's law is the physical law concerning the voluminal laminar stationary flow F of an incompressible uniform viscous liquid (i.e., a Newtonian fluid) through a cylindrical tube with constant circular cross-section.","Per Poiseuille's law, the volume movement is related to the radius of the tube the fluid is flowing to the fourth power. The elastic recovery of the hydrogel composition may behave similarly, considering the elastic recovery forces to follow the same relation as a pressure differential in Poiseuille's law. The release element acts to mechanically disrupt this force by reduction or elimination of adhesion of the adhesive hydrogel to the liner at certain locations, or by constricting the elastic nature of the adhesive hydrogel. This mechanical disruption results in substantially reduced peel forces upon initiation of release liner removal.","Typically, hydrogels suitable for use in the dressings described herein comprise less than 45% water, more preferably less than 30% by weight water, and most preferably less than 20% by weight water, based on the total weight of the hydrogel composition.","For example, the adhesive hydrogel composition can comprise a hydrogel comprising about 10% water at 50% relative humidity (RH) and 22\u00b0 C. and about 6% water at 36% RH and 22\u00b0 C. Under about 0% RH and 22\u00b0 C. aging conditions, the moisture or water content of the hydrogel can drop below 3% by wt. At these moisture levels, the hydrogel modulus increases and the hydrogel's peel adhesion increases in relation to typical release liners. This increase in modulus and peel adhesion, when combined with hydrogels of significant thickness (such as thicknesses greater than 40 mils, preferably greater than 60 mils), will cause the release liner to change from peel removal to a shear removal, thereby dramatically altering (e.g., increasing) the force necessary to remove the liner.","The likeliness of a hydrogel composition to form this meniscus bridging the liner and backing can be assessed by a relatively simple method. With a hydrogel composition between two release liners, one on each side, several samples can be cut in the downweb and crossweb directions precisely using a cutting die, for example, a 3.8 cm by 5.1 cm die. The sample can be gently removed from the two liners and attached to a surface, preferably a shelf, along one of the narrower 3.8 cm dimension of the hydrogel. Approx 0.5 cm can contact the surface, leaving the remaining 4.5 cm to dangle downward, untouched by any surface. After 24 hours, the sample can be measured for width at the lowest point.","If the width remains unchanged, (i.e., the width is 3.8 cm) the sample has experienced 0% shrinkage. Correspondingly, if the hydrogel is now 1.9 cm wide, it has experienced 50% shrinkage. The samples can also be preweighed and post weighed to determine if they have gained or lost water or other volatiles. A sample which has not changed weight but has experienced shrinkage is likely due to residual elastic recovery forces within the hydrogel. The conditions can also be varied with respect to humidity and temperature to effect meniscal formation of the hydrogel.","Hydrogels as described herein typically experience shrinkage levels of at least 10%, and more often 40% depending on hydrogel processing, the calendaring gap used in manufacturing, and moisture levels. Typically higher moisture levels in the hydrogel result in low elastic recovery shrinkage but higher volatile shrinkage under low humidity conditions. Since process conditions can be difficult to achieve that minimize both shrinkage forces, the incorporation of the release element on a portion of the hydrogel pad provides a solution to address potential liner lock-up using these compositions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","20","14","12","12","18","21","12","20","14","21","12","20","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 3-6","b":["10","10","12","10","12","10","10","12","12","14","15","10","14","12"]},"In , an optional adhesive laminate  (as viewed through transparent backing layer ) is also provided. One type of adhesive laminate that can be used is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,088,483. The adhesive laminate  can be a laminate of an adhesive and a substrate such as a film or fabric.","As shown in , adhesive laminate  is affixed to the backing layer  after the bottom face of the backing layer  is coated with a pressure sensitive adhesive, with the adhesive laminate  exposed so that the adhesive laminate  will adhere to the skin or other surface to which the dressing  is applied. The adhesive laminate  may be provided on the backing layer  in any pattern.","Adhesive laminate  is applied to at least a portion of backing layer  on the same side of backing layer  as the adhesive layer  (as shown in ). A release liner  covers the adhesive layer , the hydrogel pad , and the adhesive laminate . Release liner  is optionally die cut or may optionally extend beyond the adhesive coated face of backing layer  to enable easy removal by the user.","The adhesive laminate  may provide some reinforcing and conformability properties to the backing material. This adhesive reinforcement may be a film\/adhesive laminate, such as HYTREL (DuPont, Wilmington, Del.) film and tackified acrylate adhesive such as a copolymer of iso-octyl acrylate, acrylic acid and FORAL 85 (a triglyceryl ester of reduced abietic acid, commercially available from Hercules Chemical Co., Wilmington, Del.) tackifier. Another adhesive laminate  may be a fabric\/adhesive laminate. Examples of nonwoven fabric\/adhesive laminates include embodiments such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,366,814 and available commercially as STERI-STRIP,\u201d (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.) elastic skin closure, a nonwoven elastomeric melt blown web of thermoplastic elastomeric small diameter fibers, or CEREX (Monsanto, St. Louis, Miss.) spun bonded nylon and adhesive. Woven fabric\/adhesive laminates include embodiments such as cotton cloth laminated to a rubber based adhesive.","A carrier layer  is optionally positioned over the backing layer . The carrier layer  can be a single piece of material, such as a polymeric film, or can be two or more distinct pieces. In the embodiments of , the carrier layer  comprises at least one portion that extends beyond the edge of the backing layer  of the dressing  to form a tab . The tab  can be held during positioning of the dressing .","The carrier layer  extends along substantially the entire periphery of the backing layer  and forms a window  exposing a portion of the backing layer  overlying the hydrogel pad  with the backing layer  sandwiched between the carrier layer  and hydrogel pad . As used herein, the term \u201csandwiched\u201d means that one layer is intermediate or between two other layers. For example, the backing layer  may be considered an intermediate layer between the carrier layer  and the hydrogel pad , and thus is \u201csandwiched\u201d between the carrier layer  and hydrogel pad .","A window  may be cut (e.g., controlled depth die cut) from a carrier blank to form a carrier layer  having a window exposing a portion of the top surface of the backing layer . The cut or window portion of the carrier blank may be either removed during manufacturing or by the consumer. Removal during manufacturing eliminates one step in the delivery process for previously known window style dressings and reduces the waste stream at the consumer level. Some customers, however, prefer that the portion of the carrier covering window  remains intact until the dressing  reaches the consumer.","In the embodiment shown in , the carrier layer  has an opening such that the frame extends slightly less than completely around the perimeter of the backing layer . The opening allows the dressing to be placed over catheters or other devices while still attached to the frame to increase the ease of handling of backing layer .","In preferred embodiments, a notch  may be provided in dressing . In applications using the dressings with other devices, such as a percutaneous device, the notch  allows the dressing  to conform around bulky parts of the other device, or may conform around portions of the device that exit the area of dressing application, such as a catheter line.","Referring again to , the dressing  typically includes a release liner , also having a tab . The release liner  covers the surface of the dressing  applied to the patient, generally making contact with the hydrogel pad , the periphery of the adhesive laminate , and the adhesive . The release liner  typically remains attached to dressing  until a user is ready to apply the dressing. The release liner  may be a single piece or multiple piece release liner, and may be part of or laminated to the package (not shown) containing the dressing, or merely enclosed along with the dressing within the package.","Pressure sensitive adhesive layer  is generally provided on one major surface of the backing layer  in order to make it adhesive, and a low adhesion coating (low adhesion backsize or LAB) may be provided on the other major surface of the backing layer  on the side that comes in contact with the carrier layer . The low adhesion coating reduces the need to change the dressing  due to unwanted dressing removal when other tapes or devices are placed on the dressing  and removed, and reduces the surface friction of the dressing  on linen or other fabrics, thereby offering additional protection against the accidental removal of dressing . A description of a low adhesion backing material suitable for use with the present invention can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,531,855 and 6,264,976, which are compatible with a heat seal bond described below, and are incorporated herein in their entirety.","The hydrogel pad  of dressing  is sometimes referred to as an \u201cisland pad\u201d because the backing layer  extends substantially beyond the hydrogel pad , typically beyond the entire edge of the hydrogel pad . As used herein, an island pad also includes constructions wherein the backing layer extends partially beyond the hydrogel pad , for example, at least 50% of the periphery of the hydrogel pad . For example, the length and width of the hydrogel pad can be 3 cm by 7 cm, while a backing for this pad can be 10 cm by 15.5 cm.","The carrier layer  is preferably attached to the second major surface of the backing layer  (over the low adhesion backing). The bond between the carrier layer  and the backing layer  is stronger than the bond between the adhesive layer , adhesive laminate , or hydrogel pad , and the release liner  so that the backing layer  remains attached to the carrier layer  when the release liner  is removed from the dressing . Once the release liner  and dressing  are separated, only the carrier layer  and hydrogel pad  provide significant rigidity to the backing layer .","Various other embodiments are contemplated from the aspects shown in . For example, the backing layer  can be multiple films or coatings without diverging from the invention or deviating from the meaning of the term \u201cfilm\u201d as used herein. Similarly, the hydrogel pad  can include multiple sub-layers, including films, webs, sheets, etc. Also, additional layers and films of other materials can be added between the materials described herein.","The hydrogel pad  can comprise a hydrogel composition as described further below having a thickness of at least 2 mils, more preferably 40 mils, and most preferably 50 mils and including thicknesses up to 500 mils. The backing layer  can comprise a transparent elastic polymeric film (e.g., urethane) having a thickness in the range of 0.02 to 0.2 mm and most preferably 0.021-0.051 mm. As shown in , the thickness of the hydrogel pad  relative to the other layers of the dressing  can create an air gap  around the periphery of the hydrogel pad .","As shown in , a release element  is provided that can be configured on at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad  proximate the area that the hydrogel pad  and release liner  separate during liner removal. The release element  can take the shape of a strip or semi-circle along the periphery of the hydrogel pad along the point where liner peel is initiated as shown in ,  and . The release element  can also take the shape of tabs as shown in  or as elongated strips that extend past the hydrogel pad  to come into contact with the backing layer  as shown in . Although  describe shapes that may be preferred, the release element may take any shape desired on at least a portion of the edge of the hydrogel pad  proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal, thus minimizing or otherwise affecting the formation or legs of a meniscus  with extensions  as shown in .  depicts the embodiment shown in from the bottom side. In this depiction the release liner  has been pulled back to show the skin facing surface of the hydrogel pad  and the release element .","The release element  may cover the entire periphery of the hydrogel pad  in a frame-like construction. Preferably the release element  may cover at least 1% of the periphery of the hydrogel pad  proximate the area that the hydrogel pad and release liner separate during liner removal. In some embodiments the release element  may remain adhered to the release liner  after liner removal instead of remaining with the hydrogel pad  or the dressing .","The release element  at the liner peel interface minimizes the peel force necessary to initiate peel of the hydrogel pad  from the release liner  or prevents liner removal difficulty. In configurations where the release element  remains with hydrogel pad , the release element also minimizes the peel force necessary to remove the hydrogel pad  and dressing  from a patient. Difficulty in peel removal of the liner from the hydrogel pad  can encompass both liner lock-up (the inability to remove the liner without damaging or irreversibly distorting the dressing), and reduced ease in removing the liner where the average maximum peel force of a hydrogel pad without the release element  is increased greater than 25% relative to a similar construction of a hydrogel pad  with a release element , and measured during liner removal by the T-peel test described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIGS. 7","FIG. 3","FIGS. 7-","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":["a","e "],"b":["10","10","10","20","12","17","14","19","20","12","30","10","14","17","32","10","24","12"]},"After the dressing  is properly in position and adhered to a patient's skin, the carrier layer  can be removed, as shown in . Generally removal of carrier layer  is accomplished by grasping the carrier layer at area  and using a peeling motion toward the edges of the dressing  to remove the carrier layer . After application of the dressing , optional tapes  may be placed over the dressing  to cover catheter line  exiting dressing  at notch . The tapes  may be provided with the dressing  may be supplied separately.","During removal of the dressing, the release element may also facilitate removal of the dressing from the patient and\/or catheter as it facilitates the removal of the adhesive hydrogel from the skin and\/or catheter. The release element may be non-adherent to skin, be less adherent to skin than the hydrogel or have the same adherence to skin as the hydrogel.","The layers and materials discussed above are further described in detail below.","Hydrogel Materials","Suitable hydrogel compositions include, for example, a natural hydrogel, such as pectin, gelatin, or carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) (Aqualon Corp., Wilmington, Del.), a semi-synthetic hydrogel, such as cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose (X4ink CMC) (e.g. Ac-Di-Sol; FMC Corp., Philadelphia, Pa.), a synthetic hydrogel, such as cross-linked polyacrylic acid (PAA) (e.g., CARBOPOL\u2122 No. 974P; B.F. Goodrich, Brecksville, Ohio), or a combination thereof.","In most embodiments, the hydrogel dressing comprises a swellable, crosslinked poly(N-vinyl lactam), a swelling agent and a modifying polymer present in an amount sufficient to form a cohesive, pressure-sensitive adhesive composition as described further in Applicants co-pending application, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004-0247655-A1. The amount of swelling agent to be mixed with the crosslinked swellable poly(N-vinyl lactam) can range from about 50 to about 90 weight percent of the composition. Consequently, exclusive of any biocompatible and\/or therapeutic and\/or ionically-conductive materials to be added to the composition, the weight percent of the swellable poly(N-vinyl lactam) can be from about 10 to about 50 weight percent. When the poly(N-vinyl lactam) is poly(N-vinyl pyrrolidone), the weight percent of poly(N-vinyl pyrrolidone) can range from about 15 to about 45 percent. In particular embodiments, the poly (N-vinyl pyrrolidone) can range from about 18 percent to about 35 percent.","In most embodiments, the adhesive composition of the present invention comprises a swellable, poly(N-vinyl lactam) that is radiation-crosslinked, typically while the lactam is in a solid form. In other embodiments, the poly (N-vinyl) lactam is crosslinked by free-radical polymerization, either in bulk or in solution, of a precursor containing an N-vinyl lactam monomer, optionally other monomers, and a crosslinking compound as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,931,282. Poly(N-vinyl lactam) useful in the present invention can be provided in any form susceptible to being crosslinked such as the solid forms described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,931,282, 5,225,473 and 5,389,376. Typically, the poly(N-vinyl lactam) is a homopolymer of N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone.","After exposure to ionizing radiation, poly(N-vinyl lactam) can have a Swelling Capacity in water of at least about 15, typically at least about 30, and often at least about 40 as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,409,966, which is incorporated herein by reference. Poly(N-vinyl lactam) in any solid form may be crosslinked for use when subjected to ionizing radiation from a high-energy source.","The modifying polymer is present in the adhesive composition to maintain and\/or increase cohesiveness while reducing adhesiveness. When added with the swelling agent, the modifying polymer becomes solubilized or suspended in the swelling agent. Typically, the modifying polymer will form a viscous solution or viscous gel when combined with the swelling agent in a ratio of modifying polymer to swelling agent of 1:9.","The choice of swelling agent typically will determine the appropriate modifying polymer to accomplish a reduction in adhesion while maintaining or improving cohesion of the adhesive composition. Modifying polymers that are poorly solubilized in one swelling agent may be highly swollen in a different swelling agent for use in the present invention. In some embodiments, examples of suitable modifying swellable polymers include, but are not limited to, polysaccharides, polysaccharide derivatives, acrylates, acrylate derivates, cellulose, cellulose derivatives, and combinations thereof.","In particular embodiments, modifying swellable polymers for use in the present invention are hydroxypropyl guar; guar gum; hydroxyethyl cellulose; hydroxypropyl cellulose; hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; polymeric quaternary ammonium salt of hydroxyethyl cellulose reacted with trialkyl ammonium substituted epoxide; copolymers of hydroxyethyl cellulose and diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride; and derivatives and combinations of the foregoing.","The amount of modifying polymer can range up to about 50 weight percent of the composition. Consequently, exclusive of any biocompatible and\/or therapeutic and\/or ionically-conductive materials to be added to the composition, the weight percent of the modifying polymer can be from about 0.1 to about 40 weight percent. When the modifying polymer is hydroxypropyl guar, the weight percent of hydroxypropyl guar can range from about 1 to about 20 percent.","The hydrogel composition also comprises a swelling agent which can swell both the crosslinked poly(N-vinyl lactam) polymer and the modifying polymer, and which is biocompatible with human skin. Nonlimiting examples of swelling agents useful to swell the poly(N-vinyl lactam) include monohydric alcohols (e.g., ethanol and isopropanol), polyhydric alcohols, (e.g., ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol (Molecular Weight between 200 and 600) and glycerin), ether alcohols (e.g., glycol ethers), other polyol swelling agents which do not cause skin irritation or toxic reaction, and water.","Depending on the ultimate use desired for the adhesive composition, non-volatile and\/or volatile swelling agents may be used. One suitable swelling agent may comprise volatile swelling agent and non-volatile swelling agent, such as a mixture of glycerin or polyethylene glycol with water. In some embodiments, non-volatile swelling agents may be used by themselves such as, for example, glycerin or polyethylene glycol. Likewise, volatile swelling agents such as water may be used by themselves in the compositions of the invention. For this invention, \u201cessentially non-volatile\u201d means that a swelling agent as used in the present invention will render the adhesive polymer, such as radiated poly(N-vinyl lactam), sufficiently cohesive and pressure sensitive adhesive, such that less than ten percent (10%) of a given volume of nonvolatile swelling agent evaporates after exposure to processing or storage conditions.","The swelling agent can be added in an amount ranging from about 50 to about 90 weight percent of the adhesive composition and preferably from about 60 to about 80 weight percent. In some embodiments, glycerin and polyethylene glycol are chosen to be the essentially non-volatile swelling agent. Both glycerin and polyethylene glycol can comprise up to 100 weight percent of the swelling agent.","Hydrogel pad  is useful for containing a number of substances, optionally including antimicrobial agents, drugs for transdermal drug delivery, chemical indicators to monitor hormones or other substances in a patient, etc.","Antimicrobial Agents","The hydrogel composition can deliver an antimicrobial agent to the skin, reducing the likeliness of an infection to a percutaneous device or to treat infections of the skin or wounds. In most embodiments, the antimicrobial agent is added in levels up to 10% by weight of the total composition.","There are numerous biologically active materials, which include antimicrobial agents. Examples of antimicrobial agents include parachlorometaxylenol; triclosan; chlorhexidine and its salts such as chlorhexidine gluconate, poly hexamethylene biguanide and its salts such as poly hexamethylene biguanidine chloride, iodine, idodophors; fatty acid monoesters; poly-n-vinyl pyrrolidone-iodophors; silver oxide, silver and its salts, peroxides (e.g. hydrogen peroxide), antibiotics (e.g. neomycin, bacitracin, and polymixin B). Other suitable antimicrobial agents are those listed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004-0247655-A1.","A method of preparing a pressure-sensitive adhesive composition of the present invention comprises mixing crosslinked poly(N-vinyl lactam) with a swelling agent and a modifying polymer, and other additives in a solvent which may be somewhat volatile at or above ambient temperatures. Typically, the swelling agent, modifying polymer, and other additives, such as antimicrobial agents, are in essentially unirradiated form. Examples of suitable volatile solvents include water, ethanol, methanol, and isopropanol. A quantity of the resulting suspension is then cast onto a surface of a substrate, such as a release liner or a backing material and then stored. The volatile solvent is evaporated by heating such as by the application of microwave energy, infrared energy, or by convective air flow or the like, in order to form a cohesive, pressure-sensitive adhesive composition on the substrate. Often, a drying oven heated to about 65 degree C. may be employed for the evaporation step. A product release liner can optionally be laminated over the exposed surface of the composition to protect it from contamination.","Backing Materials","Suitable backing materials for backing layer  include, for example, nonwoven fibrous webs, woven fibrous webs, knits, films and other familiar backing materials. The backing materials are typically translucent or transparent polymeric elastic films. The backing can be a high moisture vapor permeable film backing U.S. Pat. No. 3,645,835 describes methods of making such films and methods for testing their permeability.","The backing advantageously should transmit moisture vapor at a rate equal to or greater than human skin. In some embodiments, the adhesive coated backing layer transmits moisture vapor at a rate of at least 300 g\/m\/24 hrs\/37\u00b0 C.\/100-10% RH, frequently at least 700 g\/m\/24 hrs\/37\u00b0 C.\/100-10% RH, and most typically at least 2000 g\/m\/24 hrs\/37\u00b0 C.\/100-10% RH using the inverted cup method.","The backing layer  is generally conformable to anatomical surfaces. As such, when the backing layer  is applied to an anatomical surface, it conforms to the surface even when the surface is moved. The backing layer  is also conformable to animal anatomical joints. When the joint is flexed and then returned to its unflexed position, the backing layer  can be made such that it stretches to accommodate the flexion of the joint, but is resilient enough to continue to conform to the joint when the joint is returned to its unflexed condition.","A description of this characteristic of backing layers  for use with the present invention can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,088,483 and 5,160,315. Specific suitable backing materials are elastomeric polyurethane, co-polyester, or polyether block amide films. These films combine the desirable properties of resiliency, high moisture vapor permeability, and transparency found in backings.","Carrier Layer","The material used to form the carrier layer  is generally substantially more rigid than the backing layer  to prevent the backing layer  from improperly wrinkling during application to a patient. The carrier layer  can be heat-sealable to the backing layer  with or without a low adhesion coating described above. In general, the carrier layer materials can include, but are not limited to, polyethylene\/vinyl acetate copolymer-coated papers and polyester films. One example of a suitable carrier layer material is a polyethylene\/vinyl acetate copolymer coated super calendared Kraft paper (1-80BKG-157 PE; LOPAREX of Willowbrook, Ill.).","The carrier layer  can include perforations to aid in separating portions of the carrier layer  after application of the dressing  in a patient. Spacing and shape of the perforations are adjusted to give a carrier layer with relatively easy to tear performance on removal of the carrier layer from the applied dressing. The perforations may be shaped in accordance with any of the accepted perforation patterns including linear, angled, Y-shaped, V-shaped, dual-angled offset, sinusoidal, etc.","Adhesive Layer","Various pressure sensitive adhesives can be used to form adhesive layer  on the backing layer  to make it adhesive. The pressure sensitive adhesive is usually reasonably skin compatible and \u201chypoallergenic\u201d, such as the acrylate copolymers described in U.S. Pat. No. RE 24,906. Particularly useful is a 97:3 iso-octyl acrylate:acrylamide copolymer, as is a 70:15:15 isooctyl acrylate:ethyleneoxide acrylate:acrylic acid terpolymer which is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,737,410. Additional useful adhesives are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,389,827, 4,112,213, 4,310,509, and 4,323,557. Inclusion of medicaments or antimicrobial agents in the adhesive is also contemplated, as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,310,509 and 4,323,557.","The adhesive layer  can be coated on the backing layer  by a variety of processes, including, direct coating, lamination, and hot lamination.","Release Liner","Release liner  suitable for use as described herein can be made of kraft papers, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester or composites of any of these materials. The films are preferably coated with release agents such as fluorochemicals or silicones. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,472,480 describes low surface energy perfluorochemical liners. The liners are papers, polyolefin films, or polyester films coated with silicone release materials. Examples of commercially available silicone coated release papers are POLYSLIK\u2122, silicone release papers available from Rexam Release (Bedford Park, Ill.) and silicone release papers supplied by LOPAREX (Willowbrook, Ill.). Other non-limiting examples of such release liners commercially available include siliconized polyethylene terephthalate films commercially available from H. P. Smith Co. and fluoropolymer coated polyester films commercially available from 3M Company under the brand \u201cScotchPak\u2122\u201d release liners.","Release Element","Release element  suitable for use as described herein can be made of any substrate that does not fully diffuse or absorb into the hydrogel. The release element maintains sufficient separateness from the hydrogel pad to disrupt the peel force necessary to initiate the peel of the hydrogel pad from the release liner or prevent liner removal difficulty. For example, the release element may be comprised of a continuous or perforated film; a knitted fabric; a woven or non-woven fabric; a nonwoven fibrous web; woven fibrous web; knits; films; porous; apertured or perforated film; nonporous; non-apertured or non-perforated film; nylon; woven threads; scrims; foams; discontinuous or continuous coatings; polymeric materials delivered in solution; emulsion; latex or dispersion; particles including non-adhesive or low adhesive particles; and other familiar backing materials. The release element may also include an adhesive that aids in adhesion of the release element to the hydrogel or the backing of the dressing. In cases where the release element is incorporated into the dressing such that it acts to constrict the elastic nature of the hydrogel, the adhesive layer of the release element may be exposed to the release liner during application, and therefore, the patient's skin during use.","Methods of Manufacturing","Incorporation of the release element into the dressing as described herein is readily achieved by those skilled in the arts of converting and lamination. For example, if the release element is located on the hydrogel pad only, the release element can be laminated as strips onto a web of the adhesive hydrogel. Individual adhesive hydrogel pads can then be cut from the web and placed onto the backing such that the adhesive gel and release element are oriented and located as desired on the dressing. The release element laminated to the adhesive hydrogel may be straight or have a wave like pattern. If the release element is in a wave like pattern, the release element may be located at least partially on the hydrogel pad after cutting the web as exemplified in .","In examples where the release element is in contact with both the adhesive hydrogel pad and the adhesive of the backing material, the release element is laminated to the backing and a portion of the adhesive hydrogel after the adhesive hydrogel pad is placed on the backing. As familiar to those skilled in the art, this lamination can be achieved in variety of ways. For example, the release element may be laminated as a strip to the release liner in the desired location on the release liner prior to lamination of the release liner to the backing layer containing the adhesive hydrogel pad. In examples where the release element is comprised of discrete particles, or a polymer or material that is coated from a solution, emulsion or dispersion, the release element can be coated, sprayed or otherwise deposited onto the adhesive hydrogel using a variety of pattern coating techniques known to those skilled in the art such as patterned roll coating, mask coating or edge coating of the hydrogel web material.","T-Peel measurement is conducted using a Zwick tensile tester, model Z005 (available from Zwick USA, Kennesaw, Ga.) or equivalent with the jaw speed set at 6 inches (15.24 cm) per minute and the gauge at 2 inches (5.1 cm). Data is collected for the maximum (peak) peel force in ounce-force units produced during the T-peel. Unless otherwise stated, the standard test liner is a LOPAREX 2 mil (51 micrometer) PET liner with 164Z release coating, (available from LOPAREX of Willowbrook, Ill.). Unless otherwise stated the standard conditioning for a test sample is drying in an oven at 50\u00b0 C. for a minimum of 1 week.","For each sample the release liner is lightly folded (not creased) just prior to and parallel to the hydrogel edge to facilitate the 180\u00b0 peel. While holding the sample flat, the product liner is clamped in the top jaw of the tensile tester and the remaining layers of the dressing in the bottom jaw. The hydrogel patch is aligned with the lower and upper jaws so that the peel would reach the edge of the hydrogel patch evenly. The sample is left \u201cloose\u201d between the jaws to avoid separating the liner from the hydrogel prior to taking the measurement.","Two strips of 1\u2033 wide MICROPORE (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.) tape were laminated to the surface of a hydrophilic adhesive gel web such that the MICROPORE strips were separated by approximately 1.25\u2033 of exposed gel, and the adhesive side of the MICROPORE tape faced the hydrophilic adhesive gel. The hydrophilic adhesive gel used for this example is disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004-0247655-A1. An oval shaped die (1.5\u2033\u00d72\u2033) was then used to cut out a shape such that the edges of the gel along the 1.5\u2033 width of the gel contained approximately \u215b\u2033 of MICROPORE tape. The oval shaped gel was then trimmed on each side of the long dimension of the oval to shorten the total length of the hydrogel pad to approximately 1.6\u2033. generally depict this construction. This gel pad was then laminated to the adhesive side of a commercially available 3M TEGADERM 1655 IV Transparent Film dressing (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.) such that the MICROPORE tape strips (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.) faced the product release liner. The product release liner was replaced with a 2 mil clear polyester liner with a 4400\/0000 release coating (commercially available from LOPAREX). Numerous samples were made this way and aged for two weeks at various temperatures (i.e., approximately 25\u00b0 C., 40\u00b0 C., and 49\u00b0 C.).","After the two weeks of aging, the samples were allowed to cool to room temperature, then cut in half such that the liner could be removed from each side of the dressing and the maximum peel force recorded. The maximum peel force during liner removal from the gel portion of the product was then tested using a 180 degree T-peel test conducted at 6 inches per minute on a Zwick\/Roell Z005 (commercially available from Zwick USA, Kennesaw, Ga.). The thickness of the gel pad at the leading edge of peel was measured using a caliper and was recorded. The average of three or four maximum peel force values and gel thickness values from samples from each side of the dressing and their standard deviations are summarized in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 1"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Side 2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aging","Side 1 Gel","Side 1 Maximum","Side 2 Gel","Maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"Temperature","Thickness","Peel Force","Thickness","Peel Force"]},{"entry":["Example","(\u00b0 C.)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["1","25","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.1","3.2 +\/\u2212 0.1","1.7 +\/\u2212 0.2","3.1 +\/\u2212 0.3"]},{"entry":["1","40","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.5 +\/\u2212 0.6","1.7 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.7 +\/\u2212 0.9"]},{"entry":["1","49","1.2 +\/\u2212 0.1","6.3 +\/\u2212 1.0","1.8 +\/\u2212 0.1","7.0 +\/\u2212 1.2"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Samples were prepared in the same manner as Example 1 except no MICROPORE strips were laminated to the hydrophilic adhesive gel prior to constructing the samples. The average of three or four maximum peel force values and gel thickness values from samples from each side of the dressing and their standard deviations are summarized in Table 2.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 2"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"Side 1",{},"Side 2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aging","Side 1 Gel","Maximum","Side 2 Gel","Maximum Peel"]},{"entry":[{},"Temperature","Thickness","Peel Force","Thickness","Force"]},{"entry":["Example","(\u00b0 C.)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["2","25","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.1","3.8 +\/\u2212 1.7","1.7 +\/\u2212 0.1","\u200214.6 +\/\u2212 7.0"]},{"entry":["2","40","1.2 +\/\u2212 0.3","5.9 +\/\u2212 0.6","1.8 +\/\u2212 0.1",">18.4 +\/\u2212 9.8*"]},{"entry":["2","49","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.1","6.0 +\/\u2212 0.8","1.8 +\/\u2212 0.1",">28.9 +\/\u2212 5.3**"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"*The gel of 1 of 4 samples did not release from liner during maximum peel force testing."},{"entry":"**The gel of 3 of 4 samples did not release from the liner during maximum peel force testing."}]}}]}}},"Samples were prepared in the same manner as Example 1 except strips of film\/adhesive laminate cut from the 3M TEGADERM on a Roll #16004 product (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.) (adhesive side facing the gel) were laminated to the hydrophilic adhesive gel, instead of MICROPORE strips. The carrier on the 3M TEGADERM on a Roll product was removed after the lamination of the strips. The average of three or four maximum peel force values and gel thickness values from samples from each side of the dressing and their standard deviations are summarized in Table 3.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 3"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Side 2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aging","Side 1 Gel","Side 1 Maximum","Side 2 Gel","Maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"Temperature","Thickness","Peel Force","Thickness","Peel Force"]},{"entry":["Example","(\u00b0 C.)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["3","25","1.2 +\/\u2212 0.1","3.5 +\/\u2212 1.0","1.9 +\/\u2212 0.1","3.0 +\/\u2212 0.6"]},{"entry":["3","40","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.4 +\/\u2212 0.4","1.9 +\/\u2212 0.1","6.8 +\/\u2212 0.9"]},{"entry":["3","49","1.1 +\/\u2212 0.2","6.0 +\/\u2212 0.7","1.9 +\/\u2212 0.1","6.5 +\/\u2212 0.8"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Samples were prepared in the same manner as Example 1 except strips of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) film (0.0254 mm thick, NP#25, Aicello North America, (North Vancouver, British Columbia) were laminated to the hydrophilic adhesive gel instead of MICROPORE strips. Samples from Example 4 were only aged at 49\u00b0 C. The average of three maximum peel force values and gel thickness values from samples from each side of the dressing and their standard deviations are summarized in Table 4.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 4"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Side 2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aging","Side 1 Gel","Side 1 Maximum","Side 2 Gel","Maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"Temperature","Thickness","Peel Force","Thickness","Peel Force"]},{"entry":["Example","(\u00b0 C.)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["4","49","1.0 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.8 +\/\u2212 0.7","1.8 +\/\u2212 0.2","6.6 +\/\u2212 1.9"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"A 3 cm\u00d74 cm rectangular piece of the hydrophilic adhesive gel from Example 1 was laminated to the adhesive side of a 3M TEGADERM 1626W Transparent Film dressing (3M Company, St. Paul, Minn.). Approximately 1.25 cm wide strips of film\/adhesive laminate were prepared similar to the film\/adhesive combination described in Example 2 of U.S. Pat. No. 5,849,325. The strips were placed along the edges of the gel (film side facing gel) such that the film was also attached to the film adhesive backing (see construction shown in ). The product liner was replaced with a 3 mil Polyethylene liner from LOPAREX that was coated with a release chemistry identified as 164Z. The samples were aged for 11 days at room temperature or 49\u00b0 C. After aging, the samples were prepared in a similar fashion to that described in Example 1. The gel thickness was measure at the edge of the gel. The average of two or three maximum peel force values and gel thickness values from samples from each side of the dressing and their standard deviations are summarized in Table 5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 5"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 5"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Side 2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aging","Side 1 Gel","Side 1 Maximum","Side 2 Gel","Maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"Temperature","Thickness","Peel Force","Thickness","Peel Force"]},{"entry":["Example","(\u00b0 C.)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)","(mm)","(oz\/sample)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["5","25","1.7 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.0 +\/\u2212 1.3","2.0 +\/\u2212 0.1","4.9 +\/\u2212 0.1"]},{"entry":["5","49","1.7 +\/\u2212 0.2","6.4 +\/\u2212 1.3","2.0 +\/\u2212 0.1","5.1 +\/\u2212 0.6"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The rheological properties of the gel were measured as a function of drying temperature and time using a TA Instruments' ARES rheometer (Texas Instruments, New Castle, Del.). Samples were dried at 48.9\u00b0 C. The shear measurements were taken at 24\u00b0 C. and a frequency range from 0.1 to 500 rad\/second. The adhesive gel sample was a 25 mm diameter circle with a thickness of 1.6 mm. The results for the dynamic shear viscosity are shown in Table 6a. The results of the storage shear modulus (G\u2032), and the loss shear modulus (G\u2033) are shown in Table 6b.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 6a"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Change in viscosity (poise) with drying time at different shear rates."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Viscosity (Poise)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Drying time (days)","1 rad\/sec","10 rad\/sec","100 rad\/sec"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"0","171000","28660","6299"]},{"entry":[{},"1","215900","37350","8727"]},{"entry":[{},"7","266300","50040","13330"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 6b"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"The change of the shear modulus (G\u2032) and the loss shear"},{"entry":"modulus as a function of drying time and shear rate."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"G\u2032 and G\u2033 as a function of shear rate"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["Drying time","1 rad\/sec","10 rad\/sec","100 rad\/sec"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["(days)","G\u2032","G\u2033","G\u2032","G\u2033","G\u2032","G\u2033"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["0","150000","53000","245000","125000","500000","380000"]},{"entry":["1","200000","72000","325000","160000","650000","550000"]},{"entry":["7","235000","98000","420000","243000","910000","930000"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"A solution of 3% HPG water was made from 97.0 gm DI Water, 3.0 gm Jaguar HP-120, (commercially available from Rhodia, Cranbury, N.J.) and 0.02 gm D&C Red 30. This solution was sponge applied to the front edge of the hydrogel pad, on the release liner side. This solution was allowed to dry for 5 min. Then a release liner was applied over the construction. Twenty samples of each were prepared on 2 mil PET liner coated with LOPAREX 7300 silicone release and 2 mil PET liner coated with LOPAREX 164Z. All samples were placed in 50 C oven for 2 weeks and T-peel tested for max peel with the peel initializing at the HPG coated edge.","A graph of the results of this Example 7 is reported below. The following data are averages of 20 T-peel trials using two different liners, LOPAREX 7300 and LOPAREX 164Z, both were on 2 mil PET.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 7"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of results from Example 7"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Ave Max peel for","Maximum","Failure Rate (#"]},{"entry":["Construction","20 samples (oz)","peel (oz)","greater than 20 oz)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["7300 with HPG","3.07","8.34","0"]},{"entry":["Coated Gel",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["164Z with HPG","4.5","7.14","0"]},{"entry":["Coated Gel",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["7300 uncoated Gel","7.92","17.13","0"]},{"entry":["164Z uncoated Gel","11.76","22.95","1 in 20"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As various changes could be made in the above constructions, compositions and methods without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the claims, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. The Examples described in this application are illustrative of the possibilities of varying the type, quantity and ratio of composition as well as the methods for making formulations of the present invention. The complete disclosures of all patents, patent applications, and publications recited herein are incorporated by reference, as if individually incorporated by reference."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will be further described with reference to the drawings, wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":"a. "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":"a. "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 7-7","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
