---
title: Hypothesis development based on selective reported events
abstract: A computationally implemented method includes, but is not limited to: acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user; determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events; and developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. In addition to the foregoing, other method aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text forming a part of the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010664&OS=08010664&RS=08010664
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08010664
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090528
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","Related Applications","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date(s) from the following listed application(s) (the \u201cRelated Applications\u201d) (e.g., claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC \u00a7119(e) for provisional patent applications, for any and all parent, grandparent, great-grandparent, etc. applications of the Related Application(s)). All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent, grandparent, great-grandparent, etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/313,659, entitled CORRELATING SUBJECTIVE USER STATES WITH OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCES ASSOCIATED WITH A USER, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 21 Nov. 2008, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/315,083, entitled CORRELATING SUBJECTIVE USER STATES WITH OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCES ASSOCIATED WITH A USER, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 26 Nov. 2008, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/319,135, entitled CORRELATING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE WITH DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE ASSOCIATED WITH A USER, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 31 Dec. 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,937,465, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/319,134, entitled CORRELATING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE WITH DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE ASSOCIATED WITH A USER, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 31 Dec. 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,945,632, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/378,162, entitled SOLICITING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE IN RESPONSE TO ACQUISITION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 9 Feb. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/378,288, entitled SOLICITING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE IN RESPONSE TO ACQUISITION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 11 Feb. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/380,409, entitled SOLICITING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE IN RESPONSE TO ACQUISITION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 25 Feb. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/380,573, entitled SOLICITING DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE IN RESPONSE TO ACQUISITION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE, naming Shawn P. Firminger; Jason Garms; Edward K. Y. Jung; Chris D. Karkanias; Eric C. Leuthardt; Royce A. Levien; Robert W. Lord; Mark A. Malamud; John D. Rinaldo, Jr.; Clarence T. Tegreene; Kristin M. Tolle; Lowell L. Wood, Jr. as inventors, filed 26 Feb. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/383,581, entitled CORRELATING DATA INDICATING SUBJECTIVE USER STATES ASSOCIATED WITH MULTIPLE USERS WITH DATA INDICATING OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCES, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 24 Mar. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/383,817, entitled CORRELATING DATA INDICATING SUBJECTIVE USER STATES ASSOCIATED WITH MULTIPLE USERS WITH DATA INDICATING OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCES, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 25 Mar. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/384,660, entitled HYPOTHESIS BASED SOLICITATION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 6 Apr. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/384,779, entitled HYPOTHESIS BASED SOLICITATION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE SUBJECTIVE USER STATE, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 7 Apr. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/387,487, entitled HYPOTHESIS BASED SOLICITATION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 30 Apr. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","For purposes of the USPTO extra-statutory requirements, the present application constitutes a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/387,465, entitled HYPOTHESIS BASED SOLICITATION OF DATA INDICATING AT LEAST ONE OBJECTIVE OCCURRENCE, naming Shawn P. Firminger, Jason Garms, Edward K. Y. Jung, Chris D. Karkanias, Eric C. Leuthardt, Royce A. Levien, Robert W. Lord, Mark A. Malamud, John D. Rinaldo, Jr., Clarence T. Tegreene, Kristin M. Tolle, and Lowell L. Wood, Jr., as inventors, filed 30 Apr. 2009, which is currently co-pending, or is an application of which a currently co-pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.","The United States Patent Office (USPTO) has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO's computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation-in-part. Stephen G. Kunin, -, USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18, 2003, available at http:\/\/www.uspto.gov\/web\/offices\/com\/sol\/og\/2003\/week11\/patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity (hereinafter \u201cApplicant\u201d) has provided above a specific reference to the application(s) from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization, such as \u201ccontinuation\u201d or \u201ccontinuation-in-part,\u201d for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Applicant understands that the USPTO's computer programs have certain data entry requirements, and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation-in-part of its parent applications as set forth above, but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and\/or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application(s).","All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent, grandparent, great-grandparent, etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.","A computationally implemented method includes, but is not limited to acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user; determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events; and developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. In addition to the foregoing, other method aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text forming a part of the present disclosure.","In one or more various aspects, related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and\/or programming for effecting the herein-referenced method aspects; the circuitry and\/or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware configured to effect the herein-referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.","A computationally implemented system includes, but is not limited to: means for acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user; means for determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events; and means for developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. In addition to the foregoing, other system aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text forming a part of the present disclosure.","A computationally implemented system includes, but is not limited to: circuitry for acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user; circuitry for determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events; and circuitry for developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. In addition to the foregoing, other system aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text forming a part of the present disclosure.","A computer program product including a signal-bearing medium bearing one or more instructions acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user; one or more instructions for determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events; and one or more instructions for developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. In addition to the foregoing, other computer program product aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text forming a part of the present disclosure.","The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further aspects, embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof. In the drawings, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, drawings, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.","A recent trend that is becoming increasingly popular in the computing\/communication field is to electronically record one's feelings, thoughts, and other aspects of the person's everyday life onto an open diary. One place where such open diaries are maintained are at social networking sites commonly known as \u201cblogs\u201d where users may report or post their latest status, personal activities, and various other aspects of the users' everyday life. The process of reporting or posting blog entries is commonly referred to as blogging. Other social networking sites may allow users to update their personal information via, for example, social networking status reports in which a user may report or post for others to view their current status, activities, and\/or other aspects of the user.","A more recent development in social networking is the introduction and explosive growth of microblogs in which individuals or users (referred to as \u201cmicrobloggers\u201d) maintain open diaries at microblog websites (e.g., otherwise known as \u201ctwitters\u201d) by continuously or semi-continuously posting microblog entries. A microblog entry (e.g., \u201ctweet\u201d) is typically a short text message that is usually not more than 140 characters long. The microblog entries posted by a microblogger may report on any aspect of the microblogger's daily life. Typically, such microblog entries will describe the various \u201cevents\u201d associated with or are of interest to the microblogger that occurs during a course of a typical day. The microblog entries are often continuously posted during the course of a typical day, and thus, by the end of a normal day, a substantial number of events may have been reported and posted.","Each of the reported events that may be posted through microblog entries may be categorized into one of at least three possible categories. The first category of events that may be reported through microblog entries are \u201cobjective occurrences\u201d that may or may not be associated with the microblogger. Objective occurrences that are associated with a microblogger may be any characteristic, incident, happening, or any other event that occurs with respect to the microblogger or are of interest to the microblogger that can be objectively reported by the microblogger, a third party, or by a device. Such events would include, for example, intake of food, medicine, or nutraceutical, certain physical characteristics of the microblogger such as blood sugar level or blood pressure that can be objectively measured, activities of the microblogger observable by others or by a device, activities of others that may or may not be of interest to the microblogger, external events such as performance of the stock market (which the microblogger may have an interest in), performance of a favorite sports team, and so forth. In some cases, objective occurrences may not be at least directly associated with a microblogger. Examples of such objective occurrences include, for example, external events that may not be directly related to the microblogger such as the local weather, activities of others (e.g., spouse or boss) that may directly or indirectly affect the microblogger, and so forth.","A second category of events that may be reported or posted through microblog entries include \u201csubjective user states\u201d of the microblogger. Subjective user states of a microblogger may include any subjective state or status associated with the microblogger that can only be typically reported by the microblogger (e.g., generally cannot be directly reported by a third party or by a device). Such states including, for example, the subjective mental state of the microblogger (e.g., happiness, sadness, anger, tension, state of alertness, state of mental fatigue, jealousy, envy, and so forth), the subjective physical state of the microblogger (e.g., upset stomach, state of vision, state of hearing, pain, and so forth), and the subjective overall state of the microblogger (e.g., \u201cgood,\u201d \u201cbad,\u201d state of overall wellness, overall fatigue, and so forth). Note that the term \u201csubjective overall state\u201d as will be used herein refers to those subjective states that may not fit neatly into the other two categories of subjective user states described above (e.g., subjective mental states and subjective physical states).","A third category of events that may be reported or posted through microblog entries include \u201csubjective observations\u201d made by the microblogger. A subjective observation is any subjective opinion, thought, or evaluation relating to any incidence. Examples include, for example, a microblogger's perception about the subjective user state of another person (e.g., \u201che seems tired\u201d), a microblogger's perception about another person's activities (e.g., \u201che drank too much yesterday\u201d), a microblogger's perception about an external event (e.g., \u201cit was a nice day today\u201d), and so forth. Although microblogs are being used to provide a wealth of personal information, thus far they have been primarily limited to their use as a means for providing commentaries and for maintaining open diaries.","In accordance with various embodiments, methods, systems, and computer program products are provided to, among other things, develop one or more hypotheses that may be specific to a particular person (e.g. a microblogger) based on selective reported events. The methods, systems, and computer program products may be employed in a variety of environments including, for example, social networking environments, blogging or microblogging environments, instant messaging (IM) environments, or any other type of environment that allows a user to maintain a diary. A \u201chypothesis,\u201d as referred to herein, may define one or more relationships or links between a first one or more event types (e.g., a type of event such as a particular type of subjective user state, for example, \u201chappy\u201d) and a second one or more event types (e.g., another type of event such as particular type of objective occurrence, for example, favorite sports team winning). In some embodiments, a hypothesis may, at least in part, be defined or represented by an events pattern that indicates or suggests a spatial or a sequential (e.g., time\/temporal) relationship between different event types. Such a hypothesis, in some cases, may also indicate the strength or weakness of the link between the different event types. That is, the strength (e.g., soundness) or weakness of the correlation between different event types may depend upon, for example, whether the events pattern repeatedly occurs.","In various embodiments, the development of such a hypothesis may be particularly useful to the user that the hypothesis is associated with. That is, in some cases, the hypothesis may assist the user in modifying his\/her future behavior, while in other cases; such a hypothesis may simply alert or notify the user that a pattern of events are repeatedly occurring. In other situations, such a hypothesis may be useful to third parties such as advertisers in order to assist the advertisers in developing a more targeted marketing scheme. In still other situations, such a hypothesis may help in the treatment of ailments associated with the user.","In the case where a hypothesis is being developed for a particular user, such as a microblogger, the methods, systems, and computer program products may be able to disregard or ignore reported events that may not be relevant to the development of the hypothesis. In particular, during a course of a typical day, a user such as microblogger may post a large volume of data that indicates numerous events that may have occurred during the course of the day. It is likely that a vast majority of these reported events may not be relevant to the development of a particular hypothesis. Thus, these methods, systems, and computer program products may distinguish between relevant and non-relevant data. In other words, to disregard or ignore those reported events that may not be relevant to the development of the hypothesis and use only selective reported events for developing the hypothesis. Note that the hypothesis to be developed may or may not determine a causal relationship between multiple events. Instead, the developed hypothesis may merely indicate that there is some sort of relationship (e.g., spatial or time\/temporal sequential relationship) between multiple events.","As briefly described above, a hypothesis may be represented by an events pattern that may indicate spatial or sequential (e.g., time or temporal) relationship or relationships between multiple event types. In some implementations, a hypothesis may indicate temporal sequential relationships between multiple event types that merely indicate the temporal relationships between multiple event types. In alternative implementations a hypothesis may indicate a more specific time relationship between multiple event types. For example, a sequential pattern may represent the specific pattern of events that occurs along a timeline that may indicate the specific time intervals between event types.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIGS. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b ","b"],"b":["1","100","10","10","60","61","62","20","10","10","20"]},"As indicated earlier, in some embodiments, the computing device  may be a server while in other embodiments, the computing device  may be a standalone device. In the case where the computing device  is a network server, the computing device  may communicate indirectly with a user via wireless and\/or wired network . In contrast, when the computing device  is a standalone device, it may communicate directly with a user via a user interface  (see ). In the following, \u201c*\u201d indicates a wildcard. Thus, the reference to user * may indicate a user or a user of and ","In embodiments in which the computing device  is a network server, the computing device  may communicate with a user via a mobile device  and through a wireless and\/or wired network . A network server, as will be described herein, may be in reference to a server located at a single network site or located across multiple network sites or a conglomeration of servers located at multiple network sites. The mobile device  may be a variety of computing\/communication devices including, for example, a cellular phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a laptop, a desktop, or other types of computing\/communication device that can communicate with the computing device . In some embodiments, the mobile device  may be a handheld device such as a cellular telephone, a smartphone, a Mobile Internet Device (MID), an Ultra Mobile Personal Computer (UMPC), a convergent device such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), and so forth.","In embodiments in which the computing device  is a standalone computing device  (or simply \u201cstandalone device\u201d) that communicates directly with a user , the computing device  may be any type of mobile device  (e.g., a handheld device) or stationary device (e.g., desktop computer or workstation). For these embodiments, the computing device  may be a variety of computing\/communication devices including, for example, a cellular phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a laptop, a desktop, or other types of computing\/communication device. In some embodiments, in which the computing device  is a handheld device, the computing device  may be a cellular telephone, a smartphone, an MID, an UMPC, a convergent device such as a PDA, and so forth. In various embodiments, the computing device  may be a peer-to-peer network component device. In some embodiments, the computing device  and\/or the mobile device  may operate via a Web 2.0 construct (e.g., Web 2.0 application ).","In various embodiments, the computing device  may be configured to acquire events data * from one or more sources. Events data *, as will be described herein, may indicate the occurrences of multiple reported events. Each of the reported events may or may not be associated with a user *. In some embodiments, a reported event may be associated with the user * if it is reported by the user * or it is related to some aspect about the user * (e.g., the location of the user *, the local weather of the user *, activities performed by the user *, physical characteristics of the user * as detected by a sensor , subjective user state of the user *, and so forth). At least three different types of reported events may be indicated by the events data *, subjective user states associated with a user *, objective occurrences, and subjective observations made by the user * or by others (e.g., third party sources ).","The events data *, in various embodiments and as illustrated in , may include at least data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events *. In some embodiments, the events data * may further include data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events *. Although not depicted, additional reported events may be indicated by the events data * in various alternative embodiments.","As will be further described herein, in the following examples and illustrations, the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events may form the basis for developing a hypothesis. In contrast, the third one or more reported events may represent events that may not be relevant to the development of the hypothesis. In other words, the third one or more reported events may represent \u201cnoise\u201d and may be ignored in the development of a hypothesis. That is, noise data must be accounted for particularly in, for example, the microblogging and social networking environments where much of the reported events posted through microblog entries and status reports may not be relevant to the development of a hypothesis. Such noise data may be filtered out prior to developing a useful hypothesis.","The events data * including the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * may be obtained from one or more distinct sources (e.g., the original sources for data). For example, in some implementations, a user * may provide at least a portion of the events data * (e.g., events data that may include data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events , data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events , and\/or data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events ).","In the same or different embodiments, one or more remote network devices including one or more sensors  and\/or one or more network servers  may provide at least a portion of the events data * (e.g., events data that may include data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events , data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events , and\/or data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events ). In same or different embodiments, one or more third party sources may provide at least a portion of the events data * (e.g., events data that may include data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events , data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events , and\/or data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events ). In still other embodiments, at least a portion of the events data * may be retrieved from a memory  in the form of historical data .","The one or more sensors  illustrated in may represent a wide range of devices that can monitor various aspects or events associated with a user (or user ). For example, in some implementations, the one or more sensors  may include devices that can monitor the user's physiological characteristics such as blood pressure sensors, heart rate monitors, glucometers, and so forth. In some implementations, the one or more sensors  may include devices that can monitor activities of a user * such as a pedometer, a toilet monitoring system (e.g., to monitor bowel movements), exercise machine sensors, and so forth. The one or more sensors  may also include other types of sensor\/monitoring devices such as video or digital camera, global positioning system (GPS) to provide data that may be related to a user * (e.g., locations of the user *), and so forth.","The one or more third party sources  illustrated in may represent a wide range of third parties and\/or the network devices associated with such parties. Examples of third parties include, for example, health care entities (e.g., dental or medical clinic, hospital, physician's office, medical lab, and so forth), content providers, businesses such as retail business, other users (e.g., other microbloggers or other social networking site users), employers, athletic or social groups, educational entities such as colleges and universities, and so forth.","In brief, after acquiring the events data * from one or more sources, the computing device  may determine an events pattern based selectively (e.g., by disregarding the third one or more reported events or other noise data) on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events as indicated by the events data *. The events pattern may at least identify the link or relationship (e.g., spatial or sequential relationship) between the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events.","After determining the events pattern, the computing device  may be configured to develop a hypothesis associated with the user * based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. The development of the hypothesis may involve creation of a new hypothesis in some cases while in other cases; it may involve the refinement of an already existing hypothesis . The creation of the hypothesis may be based, in addition to the events pattern, on historical data  that may be particularly associated with the user * or with a subgroup of the general population that the user * belongs to. In some embodiments, the historical data  may be historical medical data specific to the user * or to the subgroup of the general population, or may be events data * that indicate past reported events (that may or may not be associated with the user *). Other types of past data may also be included in the historical data  in various alternative embodiments.","After developing the hypothesis, in some implementations, the computing device  may be designed to execute one or more actions. One such action that may be executed is to present one or more results  of the hypothesis development operations. For example, the computing device  may present the results  to the user * (e.g., by transmitting the results to the user or indicating the results  to the user via a user interface ), to one or more third parties (e.g., one or more third party sources ), and\/or to one or more remote network devices (e.g., network servers ). The results  to be presented may include the developed hypothesis, an advisory based on the hypothesis, a recommendation based on the hypothesis, or other types of results.","As illustrated in , computing device  may include one or more components and\/or sub-modules. As those skilled in the art will recognize, these components and sub-modules may be implemented by employing hardware (e.g., in the form of circuitry such as application specific integrated circuit or ASIC, field programmable gate array or FPGA, or other types of circuitry), software, a combination of both hardware and software, or a general purpose computing device  executing instructions included in a signal-bearing medium. In various embodiments, computing device  may include an events data acquisition module , an events pattern determination module , a hypothesis development module , an action execution module , a network interface  (e.g., network interface card or NIC), a user interface  (e.g., a display monitor, a touchscreen, a keypad or keyboard, a mouse, an audio system including a microphone and\/or speakers, an image capturing system including digital and\/or video camera, and\/or other types of interface devices), one or more applications  (e.g., a web 2.0 application, a voice recognition application, and\/or other applications that may be stored in a memory ), and\/or memory , which may include one or more existing hypothesis  and\/or historical data .","The events data acquisition module  may be configured to, among other things, acquire events data * from one or more distinct sources. The events data * to be acquired by the events data acquisition module  may include at least data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events *. At least one of the first one or more reported events * and the second one or more reported events * may be associated with a user *. The events data acquisition module  may also be designed to acquire data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events * and other data indicating additional reported events from various sources.","Referring now to illustrating particular implementations of the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  of . The events data acquisition module  may include a reception module  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of the first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of the second one or more reported events *. The reception module  may further include a user interface reception module  and\/or a network interface reception module . The user interface reception module  may be configured to receive, via a user interface , the events data * including at least one of the data indicating incidence of the first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of the second one or more reported events *. In contrast, the network interface reception module  may be configured to receive (e.g., via network interface ) from a wireless and\/or wired network  the events data * including at least one of the data indicating incidence of the first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of the second one or more reported events *.","The events pattern determination module  of the computing device  of may be configured to, among other things, determine an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events as indicted by the acquired events data *. In various implementations, the events pattern to be determined may at least indicate one or more spatial or sequential (e.g., time or temporal) relationships or links between the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","b"],"b":["104","104","208","63","208","210","60","63","210","212","214","212","82","210","60","82","214","80","210","60","80","20","20"]},"The hypothesis development module  of the computing device  of may be configured to, among other things, develop a hypothesis associated with the user * based, at least in part, on the events pattern determined by the events pattern determination module . In various implementations, the development of the hypothesis may involve creating a new hypothesis or updating or refining an existing hypothesis . The hypothesis to be developed may indicate one or more relationships (e.g., spatial or sequential relationships) between a first one or more event types and a second one or more event types. In various implementations, the hypothesis to be developed may also indicate the strength or weakness of the hypothesis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["c ","b"],"b":["106","106","216","82","82","20","216","220","82","216"]},"In various implementations, the hypothesis development module  may include a determination module  to facilitate in the further development of an existing hypothesis . In particular, the determination module  may be configured to determine whether the events pattern determined by, for example, the events pattern determination module  supports an existing hypothesis  associated with the user *. The determination module  may further include a comparison module  designed to compare the events pattern determined by, for example, the events pattern determination module  to an events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis  (e.g., an events pattern that links a first one or more event types with a second one or more event types) to determine whether the determined events pattern supports the existing hypothesis .","The comparison module  may also include a strength determination module  and\/or a weakness determination module . In various implementations, the strength determination module  may be designed to determine the strength (e.g., soundness) of the existing hypothesis  associated with the user * based, at least in part on the comparison made by the comparison module . In particular, the strength determination module  may determine the strength of the relationship (or link) between a first one or more event types and a second one or more event types identified by the existing hypothesis  based on the comparison made by the comparison module . Note that if the determined events pattern exactly or substantially matches the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , then that may lead to the conclusion that the existing hypothesis  is relatively sound.","In contrast, the weakness determination module  may be designed to determine the weakness of the existing hypothesis  associated with the user * based, at least in part on the comparison made by the comparison module . In particular, the weakness determination module  may determine the weakness of the relationship (or link) between a first one or more event types and a second one or more event types identified by the existing hypothesis  based on the comparison made by the comparison module . Note that if the determined events pattern is completely or substantially dissimilar to the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , then that may lead to the conclusion that the existing hypothesis  is relatively weak. The strength or weakness relating the existing hypothesis , as determined by the strength determination module  or the weakness determination module , may be added to the existing hypothesis  to further develop or refine the existing hypothesis .","In various implementations, the hypothesis development module  may include a determined events pattern referencing module  configured to reference events pattern that have been determined by, for example, the events pattern determination module . Such referencing of the determined events pattern may facilitate the hypothesis development module  in developing a hypothesis associated with the user *.","The action execution module  of the computing device  may be configured to execute one or more actions in response to, for example, the hypothesis development module  developing the hypothesis. Referring now to illustrating particular implementations of the action execution module  of . In various implementations, the action execution module  may include a presentation module  that may be configured to present (e.g., transmit via a network interface  or to indicate via a user interface ) one or more results of the development of, for example, the hypothesis by the hypothesis development module . The presentation module  may further include one or more sub-modules including, for example, a transmission module , an indication module , a hypothesis presentation module , a hypothesis confirmation presentation module , a hypothesis soundness\/weakness presentation module , an advisory presentation module , and\/or a recommendation presentation module .","The transmission module  may be designed to, for example, transmit the one or more results of the developing of the hypothesis via a wireless and\/or wired network . In various implementations, the one or more results  may be transmitted to the user *, one or more third parties (e.g., one or more third party sources ), and\/or to one or more remote network devices such as one or more network servers . In contrast, the indication module  may be designed to, for example, indicate the one or more results  via a user interface . The hypothesis presentation module  may be configured to present (e.g., transmit or indicate) the hypothesis developed by, for example, the hypothesis development module . In contrast, the hypothesis confirmation presentation module  may be configured to present (e.g., transmit or indicate) an indication of a confirmation of the hypothesis (e.g., existing hypothesis ).","The hypothesis soundness\/weakness presentation module  may be configured to present (e.g., transmit or indicate) an indication of the soundness or weakness of the hypothesis. Note that the words \u201csoundness\u201d and \u201cstrength\u201d have been used interchangeably in reference to a hypothesis and therefore, are synonymous unless indicated otherwise. The advisory presentation module  may be configured to, among other things, presenting (e.g., transmit or indicate) an advisory of one or more past events. The recommendation presentation module  may be configured to present a recommendation for a future action based, for example, on the hypothesis.","In various implementations, the action execution module  may include a monitoring module  that may be configured to, among other things, monitor reported events. The monitoring of the reported events may involve determining whether the reported events include events that match or substantially match the types of events identified by the hypothesis. Upon detecting such events, additional actions may be taken such as soliciting for additional events data * in order to confirm, for example, the veracity of the hypothesis or generating an advisory to the user * or to one or more third party sources  regarding, for example, the possibility of the pattern of events identified by the hypothesis occurring.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["e ","b"],"b":["126","10","126","267","268","126","140"]},"The network interface  of the computing device  may be a device designed to interface with a wireless and\/or wired network . Examples of such devices include, for example, a network interface card (NIC) or other interface devices or systems for communicating through at least one of a wireless network or wired network . The user interface  of the computing device  may comprise any device that may interface with a user . Examples of such devices include, for example, a keyboard, a display monitor, a touchscreen, a microphone, a speaker, an image capturing device such as a digital or video camera, a mouse, and so forth.","The memory  of the computing device  may include any type of volatile or non-volatile device used to store data. Examples of a memory  include, for example, a mass storage device, read only memory (ROM), programmable read only memory (PROM), erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), random access memory (RAM), flash memory, synchronous random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), and so forth.","The various features and characteristics of the components, modules, and sub-modules of the computing device  presented thus far will be described in greater detail with respect to the processes and operations to be described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","10"],"i":"b"},"In  and in the following figures that include various examples of operational flows, discussions and explanations may be provided with respect to the above-described exemplary environment of and , and\/or with respect to other examples (e.g., as provided in -) and contexts. However, it should be understood that the operational flows may be executed in a number of other environments and contexts, and\/or in modified versions of , , and -. Also, although the various operational flows are presented in the sequence(s) illustrated, it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in different sequential orders other than those which are illustrated, or may be performed concurrently.","Further, in the following figures that depict various flow processes, various operations may be depicted in a box-within-a-box manner. Such depictions may indicate that an operation in an internal box may comprise an optional example embodiment of the operational step illustrated in one or more external boxes. However, it should be understood that internal box operations may be viewed as independent operations separate from any associated external boxes and may be performed in any sequence with respect to all other illustrated operations, or may be performed concurrently.","In any event, after a start operation, the operational flow  may move to an events data acquisition operation  for acquiring events data including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events, at least one of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events being associated with a user. For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring (e.g., acquiring from a user *, from one or more third party sources , from one or more sensors , and\/or from memory ) events data *including data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events *, at least one of the first one or more reported events (e.g., subjective user states such as fatigue) and the second one or more reported events (e.g., objective occurrences such as going to sleep after midnight) being associated with a user *.","Next, operational flow  may include an events pattern determination operation  for determining an events pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events. For instance, the events pattern determination module  of the computing device  determining an events pattern (e.g., a spatial events pattern or a time\/temporal sequential events pattern) based selectively (e.g., by disregarding or filtering out non-relevant events data) on the incidences of the first one or more reported events (e.g., objective occurrences such as a user * meeting with the boss) and the second one or more reported events (e.g., subjective observations such as a third party observing that the user * appears to be angry).","Finally, operational flow  may include a hypothesis development operation  for developing a hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern. For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis (e.g., creating a new hypothesis or further developing an existing hypothesis ) associated with the user * based, at least in part, on the events pattern determined, for example, by the events pattern determination module .","In various implementations, the events data acquisition operation  of  may be executed in a number of different ways as will be illustrated in , , , , , , , , and . For example, in some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include a reception operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events as depicted in . For instance, the reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via the network interface  or via the user interface ) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events *.","In various implementations, the reception operation  may be performed in a number of different ways depending on the particular circumstances. For example, in some implementations, the reception operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via a user interface as depicted in . For instance, the user interface reception module  (see ) of the computing device  receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via a user interface  (e.g., a touchscreen, a keypad, a mouse, a microphone, and so forth).","Operation , in turn, may further include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from the user as depicted in . For instance, the user interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from the user ","In the same or different implementations, the reception operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via at least one of a wireless network or a wired network as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., in the form of one or more microblog entries, one or more status reports, one or more electronic messages, and so forth) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * via at least one of a wireless network or a wired network .","Depending upon circumstances, the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and\/or the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * received via the wireless and\/or a wired network  may be provided by one or more different sources. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from the user as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a network interface card or \u201cNIC\u201d) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from the user ","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more remote network devices as depicted in . For instance, the network interfaced reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more remote network devices (e.g., one or more sensors  and\/or one or more network servers ).","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more third party sources as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more third party sources .","The one or more third party sources , as referred to above, may be in reference to various third parties (and\/or the network devices that are associated with such parties). For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more content providers as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more content providers.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more other users as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more other users (e.g., microbloggers).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more health care entities as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more health care entities (e.g., hospital, medical or dental clinic, medical labs, and so forth).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more business entities as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more business entities (e.g., merchants, internet websites, place of employment, and so forth).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more social or athletic groups as depicted in . For instance, the network interface reception module  of the computing device  receiving (e.g., via a network interface  such as a NIC) at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events from one or more social or athletic groups (e.g., sports clubs, PTA, and so forth).","The data received during the reception operation  may be received in a variety of different forms. For example, in some implementations, the reception operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via one or more blog entries as depicted in . For instance, the reception module  of the computing device  receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * via one or more blog entries (e.g., microblog entries).","In the same or different implementations, the reception operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via one or more status reports as depicted in . For instance, the reception module  of the computing device  receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * via one or more status reports (e.g., social networking status reports).","In the same or different implementations, the reception operation  may include an operation  for receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events via one or more electronic messages as depicted in . For instance, the reception module  of the computing device receiving at least one of the data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and the data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * via one or more electronic messages (e.g., text messages, email messages, instant messages, and so forth).","In various implementations, the data acquired through the events data acquisition operation  of  may include data that may indicate incidences of one or more subjective user states. For example, in some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state associated with the user as provided by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state associated with the user * as provided by the user *(e.g., as provided by the user * via a user interface , via a wireless and\/or wired network , via network servers , via memory , or through one or more third party sources ).","One or more types of subjective user states may be indicated by the data acquired through operation . For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective mental state associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective mental state (e.g., anger, happiness, fatigued, alertness, jealousy, fear, nausea, and so forth) associated with the user *.","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective physical state associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective physical state (e.g., sore ankle or upset stomach) associated with the user *.","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective overall state associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  of acquiring data indicating at least one subjective overall state (e.g., \u201cgood,\u201d \u201cbad,\u201d \u201cwell,\u201d and so forth) associated with the user *.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least a second subjective user state associated with the user as provided by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring (e.g., by receiving from the user * or by retrieving from memory ) data indicating at least a second subjective user state (e.g., a subjective mental state, a subjective physical state, or a subjective overall state) associated with the user * as provided by the user * (e.g., as provided by the user * via a user interface , via a wireless and\/or wired network , via network servers , via memory , or through one or more third party sources ).","In some implementations, operation  may further include an operation  for acquiring data indicating one subjective user state associated with a first point or interval in time and data indicating a second subjective user state associated with a second point or interval in time as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one subjective user state (e.g., elation) associated with a first point or interval in time and data indicating a second subjective user state (e.g., depression) associated with a second point or interval in time.","In various implementations, the data acquired through the events data acquisition operation  of  may include data that may indicate one or more objective occurrences. For example, in some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one objective occurrence as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating at least one objective occurrence (e.g., an objectively observable activity performed by the user * or an objectively observable external event).","One or more types of objective occurrences may be indicated by the data acquired through operation . For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user of a medicine as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user * of a medicine (e.g., a dose of aspirin).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user of a food item as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user * of a food item (e.g., 24 ounces of Filipino beer).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user of a nutraceutical as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least an ingestion by the user * of a nutraceutical (e.g., four ounces of red grapes).","Other types of activities executed by the user * or by one or more third parties (e.g., third party sources ) may be indicated by data acquired during operation . For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least an exercise routine executed by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least an exercise routine executed by the user * (e.g., walking for 45 minutes). Note that the events data acquisition module  may be configured to acquire data indicating objectively observable activities of the user * or one or more third parties in various alternative implementations. In the same or different implementations, the events data acquisition module  may be configured to acquire data indicating objectively observable external events as will be illustrated in the following.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least a social activity routine executed by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least a social activity routine executed by the user * (e.g., dinner with girlfriend).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least an activity performed by one or more third parties as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least an activity performed by one or more third parties (e.g., spouse leaving for a business trip).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating one or more physical characteristics associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one or more physical characteristics associated with the user * (e.g., blood pressure).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating a resting, a learning, or a recreational activity by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating a resting (e.g., napping), a learning (e.g., attending a class or reading a book), or a recreational activity (e.g., golfing) by the user *.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating occurrence of one or more external events as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating occurrence of one or more external events (e.g., weather or performance of favorite baseball team).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating one or more locations associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one or more locations associated with the user *(e.g., place of employment).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least a second objective occurrence as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least a second objective occurrence.","In various implementations, operation  may comprise of an operation  for acquiring data indicating one objective occurrence associated with a first point or interval in time and data indicating a second objective occurrence associated with a second point or interval in time as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one objective occurrence (e.g., eating ice cream) associated with a first point or interval in time and data indicating a second objective occurrence (e.g., high blood sugar level) associated with a second point or interval in time.","The data acquired in the events data acquisition operation  of  in various implementations may include data that indicates one or more subjective observations. For example, in some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one subjective observation as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating at least one subjective observation (e.g., an observation made by a person regarding the perceived subjective user state of another person).","Note that although a subjective observation may be made by a particular person such as user *, the data that indicates the subjective observation may be provided by the user *, by one or more third party sources  (e.g., other users), by one or more remote network devices such as network servers , or by any other entities that may have access to such data. In other words, the user * who may have made the actual subjective observation may provide indication of his\/her observation to other parties\/entities that may ultimately disseminate such information.","In various implementations, operation  may include one or more additional operations. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by a second user regarding the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation (e.g., perceived unhappiness) made by a second user (e.g., third party source ) regarding the user *.","Operation , in turn, may further include one or more additional operations. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective user state of the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user (e.g., third party source ), regarding a perceived subjective user state (e.g., happy) of the user *.","In various implementations, operation  may further comprise one or more operations. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective mental state of the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective mental state (e.g., anger) of the user *.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective physical state of the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective physical state (e.g., sore ankle) of the user *.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the second user regarding a perceived subjective overall state of the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation, as made by the second user, regarding a perceived subjective overall state (e.g., \u201cbad\u201d) of the user *.","In various implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the second user regarding an activity performed by the user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the second user regarding an activity (e.g., ate too much for dinner) performed by the user *.","In various implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation of an occurrence of an external event as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation (e.g., as made by the user * or by a third party) regarding an occurrence of an external event (e.g., \u201cgood weather\u201d).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user regarding a second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user * regarding a second user (e.g., a third party source  such as another user). Various types of subjective observations regarding a second user may be indicated by the data acquired through operation .","For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user regarding a perceived subjective mental state of the second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user * regarding a perceived subjective mental state of the second user (e.g., \u201che appears to be confused\u201d).","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user regarding a perceived subjective physical state of the second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user * regarding a perceived subjective physical state of the second user (e.g., \u201che appears to have a cramp\u201d).","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user regarding a perceived subjective overall state of the second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user * regarding a perceived subjective overall state of the second user (e.g., \u201che seems to be OK\u201d).","In the same or different implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user regarding an activity performed by the second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating at least one subjective observation made by the user * regarding an activity performed by the second user (e.g., \u201cshe exercised vigorously this morning\u201d). Note that such an activity could be related to the behavior, facial expression, or any other physical activities of the second user.","In various implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating a second subjective observation as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating a second subjective observation (e.g., as made by the user * or by a third party source  such as another user).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating one subjective observation associated with a first point or interval in time and a second subjective observation associated with a second point or interval in time as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one subjective observation (e.g., he exercised vigorously this morning) associated with a first point or interval in time and a second subjective observation (e.g., he looks very alert today) associated with a second point or interval in time.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating one subjective observation made by the user and data indicating a second subjective observation made by a second user as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating one subjective observation (e.g., \u201cthe weather is nice today\u201d) made by the user * and data indicating a second subjective observation (e.g., \u201cthe user appears to be happy today\u201d) made by a second user (e.g., a third party source ).","Referring back to the events data acquisition operation  of , in some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state associated with the user and data indicating at least one objective occurrence as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state (e.g., tension) associated with the user * and data indicating at least one objective occurrence (e.g., high blood pressure).","In some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state associated with the user and data indicating at least one subjective observation as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating at least one subjective user state (e.g., anxiety) associated with the user * and data indicating at least one subjective observation (e.g., \u201cboss appears angry\u201d).","In some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating at least one objective occurrence and data indicating at least one subjective observation as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating at least one objective occurrence (e.g., high blood pressure) and data indicating at least one subjective observation (e.g., \u201cthe stock market performed poorly today\u201d).","In some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events that includes data indicating a first reported event associated with a first point or interval in time and data indicating a second reported event associated with a second point or interval in time as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a first one or more reported events * and data indicating incidence of a second one or more reported events * that includes data indicating a first reported event associated with a first point or interval in time (e.g., 9 AM to 10 AM) and data indicating a second reported event associated with a second point or interval in time (e.g., 11 AM to 3 PM).","In some implementations, the events data acquisition operation  may include an operation  for acquiring data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events as depicted in . For instance, the events data acquisition module  of the computing device  acquiring data indicating incidence of a third one or more reported events. For example, acquiring a third one or more reported events that may not be associated with or be relevant (e.g., \u201cnoise\u201d data) to the hypothesis to be developed.","Referring back to , the events pattern determination operation  in various implementations may be performed in a number of different ways. For example, in some implementations, the events pattern determination operation  may include an operation  for determining the events pattern by excluding from the determination a third one or more reported events indicated by the events data as depicted in . For instance, the events pattern determination module  of the computing device  determining the events pattern by the exclusion module  (see ) excluding from the determination a third one or more reported events indicated by the events data *.","In various implementations, operation  may include an operation  for filtering the events data to filter out data indicating incidence of the third one or more reported events as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  (see ) of the computing device  filtering the events data * to filter out data indicating incidence of the third one or more reported events *.","Operation , in turn, may include one or more additional operations in various alternative implementations. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for filtering the events data based, at least in part, on historical data identifying and linking at least two event types as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  of the computing device  filtering the events data * based, at least in part, on the historical data referencing module  (see ) referencing historical data  identifying and linking at least two event types (e.g., excessive consumption of food and upset stomach).","Operation , in various implementations, may further include an operation  for filtering the events data by filtering out data that indicates events that are not identified by the historical data as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  of the computing device  filtering the events data * by filtering out data that indicates events that are not identified by the historical data .","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for filtering the events data based, at least in part, on an existing hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  of the computing device  filtering the events data * based, at least in part, on an existing hypothesis  referenced by the hypothesis referencing module .","Operation , in turn, may include one or more additional operations in various alternative implementations. For example, in some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for filtering the events data based, at least in part, on an existing hypothesis that is specific to the user as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  of the computing device  filtering the events data * based, at least in part, the hypothesis referencing module  referencing on an existing hypothesis  that is specific to the user *. For example, such an existing hypothesis  may have been initially created based on events data * that was specifically associated with the user *.","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for filtering the events data based, at least in part, on an existing hypothesis that is associated with at least a subgroup of a general population, the user included in the subgroup as depicted in . For instance, the filter module  of the computing device  filtering the events data * based, at least in part, on the hypothesis referencing module  referencing an existing hypothesis  that is associated with at least a subgroup of a general population, the user * included in the subgroup. For example, such an existing hypothesis  may be specifically related to a particular ethnic group.","Referring back to the events pattern determination operation  of , in some implementations, the events pattern determination operation  may include an operation  for determining a time or temporal sequential pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events as depicted in . For instance, the events pattern determination module  of the computing device  determining a time or temporal sequential pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events. The determination of the sequential pattern may involve the determination of the time or temporal relationship between at least a first event type (e.g., a subjective user state such as a hangover) and a second event type (e.g., an objective occurrence such as consumption of an alcoholic beverage).","In some implementations, the events pattern determination operation  may include an operation  for determining a spatial pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events as depicted in . For instance, the events pattern determination module  of the computing device  determining a spatial pattern based selectively on the incidences of the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events. The determination of the spatial pattern may involve the determination of spatial relationships between at least a first event type (e.g., a subjective user state such as feeling happy at work) and a second event type (e.g., an objective occurrence such as the boss being away on vacation in Hawaii).","Referring back to the hypothesis development operation  of , in various implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may be executed in a number of different ways depending upon, for example, whether a hypothesis is being created or an existing hypothesis  is being further developed or revised. For example, in some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include a creation operation  for creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on at least the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events and on historical data as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis creation module  (see ) of the computing device  creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on at least the first one or more reported events and the second one or more reported events (e.g., as indicated by the event data *) and on historical data  (e.g., historical sequential or spatial events patterns associated with at least the user *) as referenced by, for example, the historical data referencing module .","In some implementations, the creation operation  may include an operation  for creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on historical data that is particular to the user as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis creation module  of the computing device  creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on historical data  (e.g., as referenced by the historical data referencing module ) that is particular to the user *.","In some implementations, the creation operation  may include an operation  for creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on historical data that is associated with at least a subgroup of a general population, the subgroup including the user as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis creation module  of the computing device  creating the hypothesis based, at least in part, on historical data  (e.g., as referenced by the historical data referencing module ) that is associated with at least a subgroup of a general population, the subgroup including the user *.","The hypothesis development operation  of , in various implementations, may comprise one or more operations for updating or further developing of an existing hypothesis . For example, in some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include a determination operation  for determining whether the determined events pattern supports an existing hypothesis associated with the user as depicted in . For instance, the determination module  (see ) of the computing device  determining whether an events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module ) supports an existing hypothesis  associated with the user *.","In various implementations, the determination operation  may be executed in a number of different ways depending upon circumstances. For example, in various implementations, the determination operation  may include a comparison operation  for comparing the determined events pattern to an events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis to determine whether the determined events pattern supports the existing hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the comparison module  (e.g., see ) of the computing device  comparing the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module ) to an events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis  to determine whether the determined events pattern supports the existing hypothesis .","In some implementations, the comparison operation  may include an operation  for determining strength of the existing hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the comparison as depicted in . For instance, the strength determination module  of the computing device  determining the strength of the existing hypothesis  associated with the user * based, at least in part, on the comparison. That is, by determining how similar the determined events pattern is to the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , a determination may be made as to the strength of the existing hypothesis . For example, suppose the existing hypothesis  relates to an alleged association or link between two event types. If the determined events pattern is similar or matches the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , then this may indicate a strong or stronger link between the two event types.","In some implementations, the comparison operation  may include an operation  for determining weakness of the existing hypothesis associated with the user based, at least in part, on the comparison as depicted in . For instance, the weakness determination module  of the computing device  determining the weakness of the existing hypothesis  associated with the user * based, at least in part, on the comparison. That is, by determining how different the determined events pattern is to the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , a determination may be made as to the weakness of the existing hypothesis . For example, suppose the existing hypothesis  relates to an alleged association or link between two event types. If the determined events pattern is determined to be dissimilar to the events pattern associated with the existing hypothesis , then this may indicate a weak or weaker link between the two event types.","In various implementations, the determination operation  may include an operation  for determining whether the determined events pattern supports an existing hypothesis that links a first event type with a second event type as depicted in . For instance, the determination module  of the computing device  determining whether the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  of and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module  of ) supports an existing hypothesis  that links a first event type (e.g., a subjective mental state such as drowsiness) with a second event type (e.g., consumption of a medicine such as cold medication).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for determining whether the determined events pattern supports an existing hypothesis that time or temporally links a first event type with a second event type as depicted in . For instance, the determination module  of the computing device  determining whether the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ) supports an existing hypothesis  that sequentially (e.g., time or temporally) links a first event type (e.g., a hangover) with a second event type (e.g., binge drinking).","In some implementations, operation  may include an operation  for determining whether the determined events pattern supports an existing hypothesis that spatially links a first event type with a second event type as depicted in . For instance, the determination module  of the computing device  determining whether the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ) supports an existing hypothesis  that spatially links a first event type (e.g., in-laws visiting home) with a second event type (e.g., feeling tension at home).","In various implementations, the hypothesis development operation  of  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that links a first subjective user state type with a second subjective user state type based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that links a first subjective user state type (e.g., tension) with a second subjective user state type (e.g., upset stomach) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","In some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that links a first objective occurrence type with a second objective occurrence type based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that links a first objective occurrence type (e.g., consuming a particular type of food item) with a second objective occurrence type (e.g., increased bowel movement) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","In some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that links a first subjective observation type with a second subjective observation type based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that links a first subjective observation type (e.g., good weather) with a second subjective observation type (e.g., sulking behavior) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","In some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that associates one or more subjective user state types with one or more objective occurrence types based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that associates one or more subjective user state types (e.g., happiness) with one or more objective occurrence types (e.g., spending time with children) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","In some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that associates one or more subjective user state types with one or more subjective observation types based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that associates one or more subjective user state types (e.g., depression) with one or more subjective observation types (e.g., sluggish appearance) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","In some implementations, the hypothesis development operation  may include an operation  for developing a hypothesis that associates one or more objective occurrence types with one or more subjective observation types based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis development module  of the computing device  developing a hypothesis that associates one or more objective occurrence types (e.g., high blood pressure) with one or more subjective observation types (e.g., intense appearance) based, at least in part, on the determined events pattern (e.g., as determined by the events pattern determination module  and referenced by the determined events pattern referencing module ).","Referring now to  illustrating another operational flow  in accordance with various embodiments. In some embodiments, operational flow  may be particularly suited to be performed by the computing device , which may be a network server or a standalone computing device. Operational flow  includes operations that mirror the operations included in the operational flow  of . For example, operational flow  may include an events data acquisition operation , an events pattern determination operation , and a hypothesis development operation  that corresponds to and mirror the events data acquisition operation , the events pattern determination operation , and the hypothesis development operation , respectively, of .","In addition, and unlike operational flow , operational flow  may further include an action execution operation  for executing one or more actions in response to the developing as depicted in . For instance, the action execution module  of the computing device  executing one or more actions (e.g., presenting results of the hypothesis development, initiating monitoring operations for particular event types, and so forth) in response to a hypothesis development operation  performed by, for example, the hypothesis development module .","In various implementations, the action execution operation  may be performed in a number of different ways depending upon the particular circumstances. For example, in some implementations, the action execution operation  may include a presentation operation  for presenting one or more results of the developing as depicted in . For instance, the presentation module  (see ) of the computing device  presenting (e.g., transmitting via a network interface  or indicating via a user interface ) one or more results  (e.g., an advisory related to the hypothesis) of the developing of the hypothesis as performed in the hypothesis development operation .","In various implementations, the presentation operation  may include one or more additional operations. For example, in some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for transmitting the one or more results of the developing via at least one of a wireless network and a wired network as depicted in . For instance, the transmission module  of the computing device  transmitting (e.g., via network interface ) the one or more results of the developing via a wireless and\/or a wired network .","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for transmitting the one or more results to the user as depicted in . For instance, the transmission module  of the computing device  transmitting the one or more results  to the user ","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for transmitting the one or more results to one or more third parties as depicted in . For instance, the transmission module  of the computing device  transmitting the one or more results  to one or more third parties (e.g., one or more third party sources ).","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for indicating the one or more results via a user interface as depicted in . For instance, the indication module  of the computing device  indicating the one or more results  via a user interface  (e.g., a display monitor, a touchscreen, a speaker, and so forth).","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for presenting the hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis presentation module  of the computing device  presenting (e.g., transmitting or indicating) the hypothesis.","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for presenting an indication of a confirmation of the hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis confirmation presentation module  of the computing device  presenting (e.g., via a network interface  or via a user interface ) an indication of a confirmation of the hypothesis.","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for presenting an indication of soundness or weakness of the hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the hypothesis soundness\/weakness presentation module  of the computing device  presenting (e.g., via a network interface  or via a user interface ) an indication of soundness or weakness of the hypothesis.","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for presenting an advisory of one or more past events as depicted in . For instance, the advisory presentation module  of the computing device  presenting an advisory (e.g., notification regarding a pattern of reported events such as \u201cdid you know that the last time you drank four mugs of beer, you had a hangover the next day\u201d).","In some implementations, the presentation operation  may include an operation  for presenting a recommendation for a future action as depicted in . For instance, the recommendation presentation module  of the computing device  presenting a recommendation for a future action (e.g., \u201csince you drank four mugs of beer last night, you should take two tablets of aspirin before you go to work in the morning\u201d).","In various implementations, the action execution operation  of  may include a monitoring operation  for monitoring of reported events as depicted in . For instance, the monitoring module  of the computing device  monitoring of reported events (e.g., as reported by the user *, by one or more third party sources , or by one or more remote network devices such as sensors  or network servers ).","In some implementations, the monitoring operation  may include an operation  for monitoring of reported events to determine whether the reported events include events identified by the hypothesis as depicted in . For instance, the monitoring module  of the computing device  monitoring of reported events (e.g., reported via one or more blog entries, one or more status reports, one or more electronic messages, and so forth) to determine whether the reported events include events identified by the hypothesis.","In some implementations, the monitoring operation  may include an operation  for monitoring of reported events being reported by the user as depicted in . For instance, the monitoring module  of the computing device  monitoring of reported events (e.g., reported via one or more blog entries, one or more status reports, one or more electronic messages, and so forth) being reported by the user *.","In some implementations, the monitoring operation  may include an operation  for monitoring of reported events being reported by one or more remote network devices as depicted in . For instance, the monitoring module  of the computing device  monitoring of reported events (e.g., events reported via wireless and\/or wired network ) being reported by one or more remote network devices (e.g., sensors  and\/or network servers ).","In some implementations, the monitoring operation  may include an operation  for monitoring of reported events being reported by one or more third party sources as depicted in . For instance, the monitoring module  of the computing device  monitoring of reported events (e.g., events reported via wireless and\/or wired network ) being reported by one or more third party sources .","Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems; the use of hardware or software is generally (but not always, in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant) a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and\/or systems and\/or other technologies described herein can be effected (e.g., hardware, software, and\/or firmware), and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and\/or systems and\/or other technologies are deployed. For example, if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount, the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and\/or firmware vehicle; alternatively, if flexibility is paramount, the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation; or, yet again alternatively, the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware. Hence, there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and\/or devices and\/or other technologies described herein may be effected, none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns (e.g., speed, flexibility, or predictability) of the implementer, any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically-oriented hardware, software, and or firmware.","The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and\/or processes via the use of block diagrams, flowcharts, and\/or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams, flowcharts, and\/or examples contain one or more functions and\/or operations, it will be understood by those within the art that each function and\/or operation within such block diagrams, flowcharts, or examples can be implemented, individually and\/or collectively, by a wide range of hardware, software, firmware, or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment, several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), digital signal processors (DSPs), or other integrated formats. However, those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein, in whole or in part, can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits, as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers (e.g., as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems), as one or more programs running on one or more processors (e.g., as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors), as firmware, or as virtually any combination thereof, and that designing the circuitry and\/or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms, and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include, but are not limited to, the following: a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk, a hard disk drive, a Compact Disc (CD), a Digital Video Disk (DVD), a digital tape, a computer memory, etc.; and a transmission type medium such as a digital and\/or an analog communication medium (e.g., a fiber optic cable, a waveguide, a wired communications link, a wireless communication link, etc.).","In a general sense, those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented, individually and\/or collectively, by a wide range of hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of \u201celectrical circuitry.\u201d Consequently, as used herein \u201celectrical circuitry\u201d includes, but is not limited to, electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit, electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit, electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit, electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program (e.g., a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and\/or devices described herein, or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and\/or devices described herein), electrical circuitry forming a memory device (e.g., forms of random access memory), and\/or electrical circuitry forming a communications device (e.g., a modem, communications switch, or optical-electrical equipment). Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.","Those having skill in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and\/or processes in the fashion set forth herein, and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and\/or processes into data processing systems. That is, at least a portion of the devices and\/or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing, a video display device, a memory such as volatile and non-volatile memory, processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors, computational entities such as operating systems, drivers, graphical user interfaces, and applications programs, one or more interaction devices, such as a touch pad or screen, and\/or control systems including feedback loops and control motors (e.g., feedback for sensing position and\/or velocity; control motors for moving and\/or adjusting components and\/or quantities). A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components, such as those typically found in data computing\/communication and\/or network computing\/communication systems.","The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within, or connected with, different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary, and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense, any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively \u201cassociated\u201d such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence, any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as \u201cassociated with\u201d each other such that the desired functionality is achieved, irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise, any two components so associated can also be viewed as being \u201coperably connected\u201d, or \u201coperably coupled\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality, and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being \u201coperably couplable\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and\/or physically interacting components and\/or wirelessly interactable and\/or wirelessly interacting components and\/or logically interacting and\/or logically interactable components.","While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that, based upon the teachings herein, changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and, therefore, the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims.","It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as \u201copen\u201d terms (e.g., the term \u201cincluding\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincluding but not limited to,\u201d the term \u201chaving\u201d should be interpreted as \u201chaving at least,\u201d the term \u201cincludes\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincludes but is not limited to,\u201d etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d (e.g., \u201ca\u201d and\/or \u201can\u201d should typically be interpreted to mean \u201cat least one\u201d or \u201cone or more\u201d); the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.","In addition, even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of \u201ctwo recitations,\u201d without other modifiers, typically means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations). Furthermore, in those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, and C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, and C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.).","In those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, or C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, or C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and\/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase \u201cA or B\u201d will be understood to include the possibilities of \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d or \u201cA and B.\u201d"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 1","i":["a ","b "],"b":["1","30","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b. "],"b":["102","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","b. "],"b":["104","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["c ","b. "],"b":["106","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["d ","b. "],"b":["108","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["e ","b. "],"b":["126","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"a ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"b ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"c ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"d ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"e ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"f ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"g ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"h ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"i":"i ","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":"304"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"],"i":"a ","b":"306"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"],"i":"b ","b":"306"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"i":"a ","b":"708"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"i":"b ","b":"708"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
