---
title: Authenticating users and on-line sites
abstract: A method and system enables a user and/or an on-line site to be authenticated by comparing a received password with an expected password, transmitting a new password if the received and expected passwords match, and authenticating a communication if the new password matches what is expected by the on-line site. The initially received password may be distorted, such as with CAPTCHA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429730&OS=08429730&RS=08429730
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08429730
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application relates to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/1059,409, filed Jun. 6, 2008, which is incorporated by reference in its entirely.","1. Field of Invention","The present invention relates to Internet security, and in particular, to authenticating users on-line.","2. Related Art","With increased computer use, Internet security is an ever-increasing problem and concern. Areas where Internet security is important include financial transactions between parties, exchange of personal information such as date of birth, social security number, and mother's maiden name, and exchange of financial information such as credit card account numbers, bank account numbers, and other financial institution information. There are many ways to obtain sensitive information fraudulently or to perform a fraudulent transaction over the Internet. One example is through the use of automated software responding to inquiries or requesting information through the Internet. The software may be able to obtain certain sensitive information through the exchange. Computer software has been developed that can mimic human actions, resulting in problems such as quality of service degradation, spamming, and automated posting to blogs and forums.","CAPTCHA (an acronym for \u201cCompletely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart\u201d) is a commonly used security measure to determine whether a recipient is human or a computer. CAPTCHA is a well-known method to determine whether a response is generated by a computer or a human. CAPTCHA displays a distorted image of a sequence of letters and\/or numbers. A user entering the correct sequence of letters and\/or numbers is determined to be human, as computers are generally unable to reproduce the sequence. Details of CAPTCHA are well known.","One way to defeat CAPTCHA is to use cheap human labor to process and respond to the tests'. Thus, while CAPTCHA may be effective in distinguishing between humans and machines, it cannot determine whether a human user is an authorized user.","Therefore, there is a need for an improved CAPTCHA that distinguishes between a human and a computer, as well as whether a human is an authorized user.","According to one aspect, authorized users are provided a token to generate passwords. Such tokens are well known, such as the 2FA token from PayPal or tokens from Safeword. In a first step, the user logs on to the desired site. The site generates a password based on the user login and displays a distorted image of the password, e.g., CAPTCHA. The user then compares the displayed image with the password generated from the user's token. If the image and user password match, the user enters the next password generated from the token. The site then compares the entered password with what is expected. If there is a match, the user is authenticated as both human and an authorized user. If there is not a match, the site generates the next password for the user and displays a distorted image of that new password. The user is then required to enter the next password for authentication, assuming the distorted image matches the user's password.","This process prevents capture and replay by computer automated programs and ensures the presence of an authorized user or customer for login, transactions, or other uses. Cross-site request forgery or CSRF attacks can be prevented as well when current CAPTCHAs are broken.","Thus, a CAPTCHA-type security measure is modified and improved such that the site first generates a password for a specific user. The password displayed to the user may or may not be distorted. The user must then verify that the password is correct. This can be from a token or any other suitable medium, such as correspondence from the site or a third party. If the password shown is what the user expects, the user then enters the next password, which again can be from a token or other source. The site compares the entered password with what is expected, and if there is a match, the user is authenticated. Note that entry or conveyance of passwords need not be visual and through a keyboard, but may in some applications be audio or any other suitable means or combination for communicating a password.","These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Exemplary embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures, wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating exemplary embodiments and not for purposes of limiting the same.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102"]},"In step , the password is displayed to the user, such as through a screen on a computer or phone. In one embodiment, the password is distorted, like with CAPTCHA, such as shown in . The example in  shows the word \u201cSHELL\u201d distorted. The distortion prevents non-humans from recognizing the password. However, if this is not a concern, the password or phrase does not need to be distorted. Next, at step , the user compares the password displayed at step  with a password that the user expects. If the displayed password is distorted, such as by CAPTCHA, a machine would not be able to recognize the password and do the comparison with an expected password. The password the user expects may be provided in many different ways. For example, the user's registered token may display the expected password if the displayed password from the on-line site was also generated with a corresponding device. The password may also be provided from a look-up table or from a single known password.","If the password sent from the on-line site matches or is the same as what the user expects (such as matching the password on the user's token), the user enters a next password at step . This next password corresponds to what the on-line site expects as the next password. Again, this can be generated or obtained through different methods. One example would be the next password generated from the user's token. Another example would be the next password in a look-up table that both the user and the on-line site has access to. Once the next password is obtained, the user enters it and transmits the password to the on-line site. Entry can be through a keyboard, touchpad, keypad, or any suitable method. Once received by the on-line site, the user entered password is compared, at step , with a password that the on-line site is expecting. If the user-entered password does not match the expected password from the on-line site, the user is not authenticated, and on-line site generates another password and repeats the process at step . Again, the generated password can be distorted or undistorted.","If the passwords match, as determined at step , the on-line site authenticates the user, at step , to initiate or continue the transaction or communication. As a result, it can be determined, to a large degree of certainty, that the user at the other end of the communication or transaction is a proper or approved user and is an actual human (e.g., if CAPTCHA is used) and that the on-line site is authentic (as opposed to a fraudulent site). Both parties can then feel confident about initiating or continuing the transaction or communication, with lower risks of fraudulent transactions or misappropriation of sensitive information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","304","306"]},"The on-line site then waits for the user to respond to the displayed password. Once the password is displayed to the user, the user checks the displayed password against a local password generated or associated with the user. For example, the user can compare a password from a security token with what is displayed. If the passwords match, which indicates that the on-line site is authentic or what the user intends to communicate with, the user enters another password that the on-line site would expect to receive. In one embodiment, this password is the next password generated or displayed on the user's security token. Any means for generating or retrieving this password may be suitable, as long as the on-line site knows which password to expect if the user is a proper user. Entry of this next password can be through a keyboard (such as with a laptop or desktop computer), a virtual keyboard (such as through an iPhone), a compact or non-conventional keyboard (such as with various mobile devices), or even verbal through a voice connection. After the user enters the password, the password is transmitted or communicated back to the on-line site, where it is received at step .","At step , the on-line site itself then generates or retrieves the next password it is expecting to receive from an authorized user. If the user is who the on-line site expects from the log in information, the passwords will match. If not, the passwords will likely not match. Thus, at step , the on-line site compares the password received from the user (at step ) with the password generated or retrieved by the on-line site (at step ). If the passwords match, indicating that the user is who the on-line expects, the on-line site authenticates the user at step  to continue or initiate communication or a transaction with the user. However, if at step , the passwords are different, then the on-line site generates a new password associated with the user at step  and continues the authentication process. Note that each password generated at step  must be one that the user would expect from an authentic on-line site or the site the user intended to log into. Once authenticated, the on-line site, as well as the user, has been confirmed as intended parties to the communication.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","404","406","408","406","404","402"]},"If the passwords match, indicating the site is the user-intended site, the user generates or retrieves a new password at step . That password should be what the on-line site expects. At step , the user transmits the password to the on-line site, such as by entering in the password and sending. The user then waits for a response from the on-line site. After receiving the password from the user, the on-line site retrieves or generates a corresponding password and determines whether the received password and the site-generated password match. A match indicates to the on-line site that the user is proper, while a mismatch may indicate the user is not proper or that the user simply entered in a wrong password, such as by mis-typing the password.","Regardless, the on-line site determines that the passwords do not match, the on-line site may send the user a message indicating that the communication or transaction is denied. If that is the case, the user, at step , is not authenticated. At this time, the user may have several options for response at step . One, the user may try logging into the on-line site again at step . This would start the complete process over again, which would be more time consuming, but also possibly more secure. Two, the user may respond to a new password generated and transmitted by the on-line site at step . This allows the user to first re-authenticate the site before proceeding with user authentication. Three, the user may generate a new password at step . This would be the easiest for the user, with a possible assumption that the user is proper, but simply entered in the wrong password by mistake. If the user is authenticated by the on-line site, then the user is notified and proceeds with the communication or initiates a transaction in step .","These series of steps enables both the user and the on-line site to be authenticated. When the user first matches up an expected password with what is received from the on-line site, the user authenticates the on-line site. Next, when the on-line site matches up an expected password with what is received from the user, the on-line site authenticates the user. The result is a higher likelihood that the communication is between intended parties.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","504","508","502","502","502"]},"User device  may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and\/or software configured for wired and\/or wireless communication over network . For example, user device  may be implemented as a personal computer, mobile device such as a cell phone, or a laptop of a user  in communication with network . User device  may include one or more browser applications  which may be used, for example, to provide a user interface to permit user  to browse information available over network . For example, browser application  may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over the Internet.","User device  may include one or more toolbar applications , which may be used, for example, to provide user-side processing for performing tasks in response to operations selected by user . For example, toolbar application  may display a graphical user interface (GUI) in connection with browser application . User device  may also include a plug-in module  for facilitating financial transactions over network . In one implementation, plug-in module  comprises a software program, such as a graphical user interface (GUI), executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with on-line site server  via network . On-line site device  may be associated with any suitable on-line site, such for a merchant, retailer, bank, or payment provider, such as PayPal, Inc. of San Jose, Calif., for facilitating on-line financial services, and can be a server, computing device, etc. User  is able to access on-line site device  to communicate with the desired on-line site via a network browser, such as a web browser.","User device  may include other applications  as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to user . For example, such other applications  may include security applications for implementing customer-side security features, programmatic customer applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs) over network  or various other types of generally known programs and\/or applications.","User device  may include one or more user identifiers , which may be implemented, for example, as operating system registry entries, cookies associated with browser application , identifiers associated with hardware of user device , or various other appropriate identifiers. User identifier  may include attributes related to the user, such as personal information (e.g., a user name, password, photograph image, biometric id, address, phone number, etc.) and banking information (e.g., banking institution, credit card issuer, user account numbers, security information, etc.). In various implementations, user identifier  may be passed or transmitted as part of the log-in process described above.","As discussed above, on-line site device  may be maintained by an on-line payment provider, merchant, or financial institution. Depending on the services provided by the on-line site, the device stores and allows access to specific information. In general, site device  includes one or more applications  for providing the desired services to user  via network  and a plurality of user accounts . Each user account  may include account or authenticating information  associated with individual users, such as one or more account numbers, user IDs, passwords, credit card information, banking information, or other types of information associated with the user, which may be used to identify a particular user upon log in. Site device  may also include a processor  and a password generator\/database .","Processor  communicates with user account  and password generator\/database  to generate\/retrieve passwords based on specific user log-in information and compares passwords received from a specific user with expected passwords, as discussed above. Password generator\/database  may be a synched random number generator, such as provided by RSA SecurID, a look-up table, or any suitable generation or storage\/look-up means for passwords associated with specific users. Processor  may be any suitable computing means that can compare received passwords with expected passwords for authenticating a user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","600","602","604","606","608","610","612","614","616","618","610"]},"Computer system  may perform specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component , according to steps described herein. Such instructions may be read into system memory component  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage component  or disk drive component . The various storage or memory components may be used to store information about users and passwords for authenticating on-line sites and\/or users. In other embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention.","Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium, which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. In various implementations, non-volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive component , volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory component , and transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus . In one example, transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Some common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.","In various example embodiments, execution of instruction sequences for practicing embodiments of the invention may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments, a plurality of computer systems  coupled by communication link  may perform instruction sequences to practice the invention in coordination with one another.","Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, information and instructions, including one or more programs (i.e., application code), passwords, and user information, through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as received and\/or stored in disk drive component  or some other non-volatile storage component for execution.","Where applicable, various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware, software, or combinations of hardware and software. Also, where applicable, the various hardware components and\/or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software, hardware, and\/or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable, the various hardware components and\/or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub-components comprising software, hardware, or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition, where applicable, it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice-versa.","Software, in accordance with the present disclosure, such as program code and\/or data, may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and\/or computer systems, networked and\/or otherwise. Where applicable, the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed, combined into composite steps, and\/or separated into sub-steps to provide features described herein.","The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and\/or modifications to the present invention, whether explicitly described or implied herein, are possible in light of the disclosure. For example, the method is described with reference to CAPTCHA, but any suitable challenge-response test administered by a computer for a human may also be used, as well as tests where the password generated by the computer is not distorted. In addition, passwords are described as being displayed, but they can be conveyed in any suitable manner, such as by voice. Furthermore, passwords are described as being generated, but they may actually be retrieved or otherwise obtained without an actual generation of passwords.","Having thus described embodiments of the invention, persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus, the invention is limited only by the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
