---
title: Scanning and capturing digital images using layer detection
abstract: A mechanism for scanning and capturing digital images using document layer detection. Upon detecting a document placed on a scanning surface of a scanning device, the illustrative embodiments identify one or more layers within the document. The illustrative embodiments then scan the one or more layers within the document on a layer by layer basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08610924&OS=08610924&RS=08610924
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08610924
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091124
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","The illustrative embodiments relate generally to a document scanning system and in particular to scanning and capturing digital images using document layer detection.","2. Description of the Related Art","Scanners are an important part of a word processing and\/or personal computer environment. A scanner is a device that optically scans printed or handwritten paper documents, objects, and photographs and creates digital images. One example of a scanner is a desktop or flatbed scanner that comprises a glass window on which a document is placed. A light positioned under the glass window is moved across the document to capture a digital image of the document and store the image in memory. With the digital image in memory, the image may be displayed, copied, transferred, printed, or altered as desired.","Scanning software, called a driver, is utilized to capture an image of a document. TWAIN is a common software language that scanner manufacturers use to communicate with scanners. The TWAIN driver acts as an interpreter between any application that supports the TWAIN standard and the scanner. The user configures the controls provided by the TWAIN driver to specify the scanning mode (e.g., color or black and white), the scanning resolution (e.g. 100 dpi or 200 dpi), the area on the flatbed glass window to be scanned, and other scanning characteristics, such as desired tonal quality and color balance of the scanned image. Once a document that has been placed on the glass window has been scanned, the TWAIN driver transfers the scanned image into memory.","After the images are stored in memory, a user may need to edit a scanned image because the image contains unwanted or irrelevant detail. A user may edit the scanned image using a graphics editing software product such as Adobe\u00ae Photoshop\u00ae. The graphics editing software enables a user to remove unwanted detail by cropping the image. Cropping refers to removing unnecessary or unwanted portions of the image, thereby improving the overall composition of the document.","The illustrative embodiments provide a mechanism for scanning and capturing digital images using document layer detection. Upon detecting a document placed on a scanning surface of a scanning device, the illustrative embodiments identify one or more layers within the document. The illustrative embodiments then scan the one or more layers within the document on a layer by layer basis.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the disclosure may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.","Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be, for example but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer-readable medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CDROM), an optical storage device, a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet, or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer-usable or computer-readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed, as the program can be electronically captured, via, for instance, optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted, or otherwise processed in a suitable manner, if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document, a computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be any medium that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The computer-usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer-usable program code embodied therewith, either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc.","Computer program code for carrying out operations of the aspects of the disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++, Voice eXtensible Markup Language (VXML) or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","The aspects of the disclosure are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions.","These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The scanner of the illustrative embodiments allows for capturing a digital image of a document based on layer detection. A layer is defined as an area of a document which comprises features having a specific depth of field, color, or content. Photographs are one example of documents that may contain various depth of field features. Consider, for example, a photograph of a person standing in front of a city skyline. A layer in the photograph may comprise the foreground containing objects located close to the camera (e.g., the person). Similarly, another layer in the photograph may comprise the background containing objects located far from the camera (e.g., the skyline). Documents may also comprise various color variations, wherein each color in the document may be identified as a separate layer of the document. Documents may also comprise a combination of text and graphics, wherein the text portion of the document is identified as one layer and the graphics portion of the document is identified as a separate layer. Documents may also comprise multiple-exposed photographs, wherein the film was exposed to two different images at different times. Each image in a multiple-exposed photograph may be identified as a separate layer. In addition, the document itself may be constructed of a plurality of separate physical layers. For example, the document may comprise an amalgam of one photograph placed over a portion of another photograph, in which the individual photographic images were taken at separate points in time. In another example, the document may comprise an amalgam of a transparent overlay placed on top of a document. The transparent overlay may comprise text or graphical images created separately from the text or graphical images on the document. In a further example, the document may comprise an amalgam of an opaque overlay placed on top of portions of a document, wherein the opaque overlay covers up unwanted sections of the document.","The scanner in the illustrative embodiments may employ existing depth edge detection technology to allow for scanning and capturing separate layers of a document. One example of such technology is multi-flash imaging. Multi-flash is currently employed within a camera to detect color variations, differences in shape, and depth discontinuities. The scanner in the illustrative embodiments may detect the shadows around objects that are created using existing lighting and depth edge detection technology such as multi-flash to identify different layers within a document for scanning. When a user places a document onto the scanning surface of the scanning device, the scanning software in the scanner detects the lighting (i.e., exposure) of objects within the document to determine the individual layers (e.g., foreground, background, etc.) The scanning software also may detect shadows formed from the individual layers of the document. For example, using a multi-flash camera, a photograph taken of a subject in front of a background will comprise shadows around the subject. The scanning software may detect the shadow around the subject and capture the subject as one layer of the document. The scanning software may also capture the background outside of the object's shadow as a separate layer. These individual layers are stored as separate files in memory. Alternatively, the scanning software may be configured to scan only specific portions or layers of the document as indicated by the user. For instance, the user may instruct the software to scan only the foreground layer of a document by configuring the software to capture the portion of the document in which the light exposure on the objects in the document is higher (e.g. due to use of a flash) than the rest of the document. If the scanning software is configured to scan all of the layers in the document separately, the scanning software may scan the layers in a particular order or in particular grouping of layers. For instance, as the brightness in parts of a photograph may vary, the scanning software may be configured to scan layers of a photograph in order of highest exposure to lowest exposure, or ice versa. In another example, the scanning software may be configured to scan layers of a photograph in order of proper exposure. Layers comprising adequate exposures are scanned first, while layers comprising \u201cblown-out highlights\u201d (extremely bright portions of the photograph) or \u201ccrushed blacks\u201d (extremely dark portions of the photograph) or other unrecoverable areas are scanned last or eliminated from the scanning process altogether. Thus, the illustrative embodiments comprise a scanning process that allows a document to be edited while the document is being scanned, rather than editing the digital image of the document after the document has already been scanned in its entirety.","In another embodiment of the layer detection process, the user may instruct the software to scan portions of the document that contain a specific color. In this embodiment, a UV application may be employed in the scanner to analyze and detect the wavelengths of light reflected from the document. If the UV application locates a desired wavelength reflected in the document (e.g., the wavelength for the color blue), the scanning software may be instructed to capture only those portions of the document that the UV application has identified as comprising the specified color. Alternatively, the scanning software may be configured to scan all of the detected layers of color in the document, but on a layer by layer basis. In a further embodiment, the user may configure the scanning software to identify layers in the document based on the type of document content. For instance, if the document contains text and graphics, the user may specify that the scanning software scan as a separate layer only the text portion of the document, and not the graphics portion of the document.","With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to , a pictorial representation of an exemplary document scanning system for capturing a digital image of an object in accordance with the illustrative embodiments is shown. In this illustrative example, data processing system  comprises a computer  and a scanning device . Computer  includes system unit , video display terminal , keyboard , storage unit , which may include floppy drives and other types of permanent and removable storage media, and mouse . Additional input devices may be included with computer , such as, for example, a joystick, touchpad, touch screen, trackball, microphone, and the like. Computer  may be implemented using any suitable computer, such as an IBM\u00ae eServer\u00ae computer or IntelliStation\u00ae computer, which are products of IBM Corporation, located in Armonk, N.Y. Although the depicted representation shows a computer, other embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in other types of data processing systems, such as a network computer. Computer  may also include a graphical user interface (GUI) that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within computer .","Scanning device  may be connected to computer  via wire links, wireless communication links, or fiber optic cables. In the depicted example, scanning device  is a flatbed scanner that comprises a glass window. When a document is placed on the glass window, a light positioned under the glass window is moved across the document to capture a digital image of the document and store the image in memory. The portions of the document that are actually captured by scanning device  in accordance with the illustrative embodiments are described in further detail in .","Turning now to , a block diagram of an exemplary data processing system with which the illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system  is an example of a computer, such as computer  shown in  or computer  in , in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments. In this illustrative example, data processing system  includes communications fabric , which provides communications between processor unit , memory , persistent storage , communications unit , input\/output (I\/O) unit , and display .","Processor unit  serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit  may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi-processor core, depending on the particular implementation. Further, processor unit  may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems, in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example, processor unit  may be a symmetric multi-processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.","Memory  and persistent storage  are examples of storage devices . A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information, such as, for example, without limitation, data, program code in functional form, and\/or other suitable information either on a temporary basis and\/or a permanent basis. Memory , in these examples, may be for example, a random access memory, or any other suitable volatile or non-volatile storage device. Persistent storage  may take various forms, depending on the particular implementation. For example, persistent storage  may contain one or more components or devices. For example, persistent storage  may be a hard drive, a flash memory, a rewritable optical disk, a rewritable magnetic tape, or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage  may be removable. For example, a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .","Communications unit , in these examples, provides for communication with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples, communications unit  is a network interface card. Communications unit  may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.","Input\/output unit  allows for the input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example, input\/output unit  may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard, a mouse, and\/or some other suitable input device. Further, input\/output unit  may send output to a printer. Display  provides a mechanism to display information to a user.","Instructions for the operating system, applications, and\/or programs may be located in storage devices , which are in communication with processor unit  through communications fabric . In these illustrative examples, the instructions are in a functional form on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory  for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit  using computer implemented instructions, which may be located in a memory, such as memory .","These instructions are referred to as program code, computer usable program code, or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code, in the different embodiments, may be embodied on different physical or computer readable storage media, such as memory  or persistent storage .","Within memory  or persistent storage , computer program instructions for an object display application for displaying an image of an object placed on the surface of scanning device  in  are provided. The object display application may operate generally for displaying an image on display  of an object placed on the scanning device by: detecting an object placed on the scanning surface, identifying a region of the surface upon which the object is placed, scanning, using the scanner, the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object, and rendering the object image within the identified region. The object placed on the scanning surface may be implemented as a pictorial document such as a photograph or other printed graphic image, a text document, a hand, a portable computing device, or any other object as will occur to those of skill in the art.","In addition, a set of computer program instructions for a scanner device driver for operating scanner  in  is also provided within persistent storage  and is loaded into memory . The scanner device driver comprises scanning software that exposes an application programming interface (\u2018API\u2019) to the object display application that may be used to scan a region of the scanning surface to create an image of any objects placed in the region. The scanner device driver may be implemented in any number of ways and provide a variety of interfaces as will occur to those of skill in the art, including those according to the TWAIN specification promulgated by the TWAIN Working Group, the Image and Scanner Interface Specification (\u2018ISIS\u2019) developed by Pixel Translations, the Scanner Access Now Easy (\u2018SANE\u2019) specification, and so on.","Program code  is located in a functional form on computer readable media  that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system  for execution by processor unit . Program code  and computer readable media  form computer program product . In one example, computer readable media  may be computer readable storage media  or computer readable signal media . Computer readable storage media  may include, for example, an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage  for transfer onto a storage device, such as a hard drive, that is part of persistent storage . Computer readable storage media  also may take the form of a persistent storage, such as a hard drive, a thumb drive, or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . In some instances, computer readable storage media  may not be removable from data processing system .","Alternatively, program code  may be transferred to data processing system  using computer readable signal media . Computer readable signal media  may be, for example, a propagated data signal containing program code . For example, computer readable signal media  may be an electro-magnetic signal, an optical signal, and\/or any other suitable type of signal. These signals may be transmitted over communications links, such as wireless communications links, an optical fiber cable, a coaxial cable, a wire, and\/or any other suitable type of communications fink. In other words, the communications link and\/or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples.","In some illustrative embodiments, program code  may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage  from another device or data processing system through computer readable signal media  for use within data processing system . For instance, program code stored in a computer readable storage media in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code  may be a server computer, a client computer, or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .","The different components illustrated for data processing system  are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in  can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. The different embodiments may be implemented using any hardware device or system capable of executing program code. As one example, data processing system  may include organic components integrated with inorganic components and\/or may be comprised entirely of organic components excluding a human being. For example, a storage device may be comprised of an organic semiconductor.","As another example, a storage device in data processing system  is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory , persistent storage , and computer readable media  are examples of storage devices in a tangible form. In another example, a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric  and may be comprised of one or more buses, such as a system bus or an input\/output bus. Of course, the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally, a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data, such as a modem or a network adapter. Further, a memory may be, for example, memory  or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","300","306","300","302"]},"Scanner , which includes the mirrors, lens, filters, CCD array, lamps, and so on, moves across the underside of scanning surface  by a belt that is attached to a stepper motor. Scanner  is attached to stabilizer bars  to ensure that there is no wobble or deviation as the scanner passes beneath scanning surface . As scanner  passes beneath an object placed on scanning surface , the image of the object is reflected through a series of mirrors onto a lens. The lens splits the image into three smaller versions of the original. Each smaller version passes through a color filter, which is either red, green, or blue, onto a discrete section of the CCD array. Scanner  then combines the data from the three parts of the CCD array into a single full-color image.","Although scanner  is described above using CCD technology, other scanning technologies may also be useful in embodiments of the present invention. For example, a scanner in some embodiments may be implemented using contact image sensor (\u2018CIS\u2019) technology. CIS technology replaces the CCD array, mirrors, filters, lamp and lens with rows of red, green and blue light emitting diodes (\u2018LEDs\u2019). The image sensor mechanism, consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual sensors spanning the width of scanning surface , is placed very close to scanning surface  on which the object rests. When the object is scanned, the LEDs combine to provide white light. The illuminated image of the object is then captured by the row of sensors. Still further, readers will appreciate that other scanning technologies may be used. The CCD scanner and the CIS scanner described above are for explanation only and not for limitation.","Scanning computer  comprises layer detection module . In one embodiment, scanning computer  is an example of data processing system  in . Layer detection module  in scanning computer  comprises software for detecting the presence of layers within the document to be scanned. Layer detection module  may comprise any known layer detection technology, including existing lighting and depth edge detection technology. Layer detection module  may detect the shadows created by the lighting and depth edge detection technology to identify the different layers within a document for scanning. Layer detection module  (or scanning software in data processing system  in ) may be configured to identify each of the individual layers or configured to identify only specific layers of the document for scanning. Layer detection module  and scanning software in data processing system  in  may also be configured to identify the layers for scanning in a particular order or in particular grouping of layers.","It should be appreciated that  are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["302","300","312","302","300"]},"In , document  to be scanned is shown placed on scanning surface  (i.e., viewed from the underside of scanning surface ). The layer detection module comprising any known layer detection technology detects the various layers on document . Other tools such as computational photography may be employed to generate documents for scanning that comprise suitable depth edges to enable the detection of document layers. The scanning software may be configured by the user to define how the scanning software should scan the various layers within a document. In this illustrative example, the layer detector determines that there are three layers a foreground layer  (shoes), a mid layer  (person), and a background layer  (rock formation). Once the layer detector identities the different layers within document , the scanning software automatically scans and captures the individual layers of the document into separate image files. The scanning software may also capture only a particular layer within document  as desired by the user. For instance, the scanning software may scan only foreground layer , mid layer , or background layer  based on the configuration settings set by the user.","In addition to using depth of field edges to separate a document into individual layers, the scanning software may also separate the document into individual layers based on color variations in the document. A UV application may analyze the wavelengths of light reflected from document  to be scanned. The scanning software then scans a portion of document  corresponding to an identified color wavelength, and stores the scanned image as a digital file. The scanning software repeats the scanning process for each of the color wavelengths identified by the UV application in the document. In an alternative embodiment, the scanning software may be configured to scan only those portions of document  that the UV application has identified as comprising a color of a desired wavelength.","The scanning software may also separate the document into individual layers based on the types of content within the document. As shown in , document  comprises both text content  and graphical content . The scanning software may be configured to scan text content  of document  separately from graphical content . Consequently, separate digital images for document  may be created and stored in memory, wherein one file contains the text in document , and the other file contains the graphics in document .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","502","504","200","506","508"]},"A determination is then made as to whether the document contains any more layers to process (step ). If the document contains additional layers to process (\u2018yes\u2019 output of step ), the process loops back to  wherein the scanning software automatically scans the next layer. The process is repeated for each layer detected in the document. If all of the layers detected in the document have been scanned (\u2018no\u2019 output of step ), the process terminates thereafter.","In an alternative embodiment, the user may configure the scanning software to automatically scan only a particular layer of the document based on settings configured by the user. For instance, the user may specify that the scanning software should only scan and capture the foreground layer of the document or the layer of the document that comprises a particular color. In another embodiment, the scanning software may prompt the user to manually select which particular layer the user wants the scanner to capture. The scanned portion is then stored as a digital image in memory with the process terminating thereafter.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.","The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment, the invention is implemented in software, which includes but is not limited to firmware, resident software, microcode, etc.","Furthermore, the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer-usable or computer-readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description, a computer-usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","The medium can be an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system (or apparatus or device) or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer-readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory, magnetic tape, a removable computer diskette, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk-read only memory (CD-ROM), compact disk-read\/write (CD-R\/W) and DVD.","A data processing system suitable for storing and\/or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code, bulk storage, and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.","Input\/output or I\/O devices (including but not limited to keyboards, displays, pointing devices, etc.) can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I\/O controllers.","Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems, cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.","The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention, the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
