---
title: Turbo-alternator-compressor design for supercritical high density working fluids
abstract: Techniques for generating power are provided. Such techniques involve a thermodynamic system including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing, and an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor cavities. The compressor has a high-pressure face facing an inlet of the compressor cavity and a low-pressure face on an opposite side thereof. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and is supported in the housing by bearings. Ridges extending from the low-pressure face of the compressor may be provided for balancing thrust across the compressor. Seals may be positioned about the alternator for selectively leaking fluid into the rotor cavity to reduce the temperature therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08397506&OS=08397506&RS=08397506
owner: 
number: 08397506
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090603
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was developed under Contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to techniques for generating power. More particularly, the invention relates to techniques for generating power using a thermodynamic system with a working fluid passing therethrough.","2. Background of the Related Art","Various devices have been developed to generate power to perform necessary work. For example, engines have been designed to propel vehicles, operate factory equipment and generate electricity. Some such engines take an input, such as coal, gas or other fuel, and convert such fuel into an output, typically in the form of kinetic energy, to perform the work.","Over time, power generators have been refined in an effort to improve performance and\/or efficiency. Advancements in performance have enabled the development of more sophisticated devices capable of operating high power equipment, such as nuclear reactors, rockets and\/or jet engines. See, for example, the technology path of turbomachinery as described in C. DellaCorte, 2 , Presentation at NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio, 2006.","One enhancement of power generation is the development of the Brayton Cycle (sometimes referred to as the Joule Cycle). With the Brayton Cycle, working fluid is compressed by a compressor and passed through a turbine to generate power for performing desired work. The Brayton Cycle typically involves a closed loop system that returns the fluid from the turbine back to the compressor for reuse. Examples of Brayton Cycles are described in the following articles: Wright S. A., -1, Portsmouth, Va., (Aug. 17-21, 2003); Steven A. Wright, , ANS Winter Meeting, Albuquerque, N. Mex., (Nov. 12-16, 2006), p. 855-57; S. A. Wright, Robert Fuller, et. al., -(-2005) Albuquerque, N. Mex. (February, 2005), pg 699; S. A. Wright, and R. J. Lipinski , Reno, Nev. (Jun. 4-8 2006); S. A. Wright and R. J. Lipinski, -, Reno Nev., (Jun. 4-8, 2006); S. A. Wright and P. S. Pickard, , Nice, France (May 13-18, 2007); Steven A. Wright, --(-2007), Albuquerque, N. Mex., (Feb. 11-15, 2007); AIP Conference Proceedings, Volume 880, (2007) pp. 157-166; and Steven A. Wright, (-2007), Albuquerque, N. Mex., (Feb. 11-15, 2007); AIP Conference Proceedings, Volume 880, (2007) pp. 597-604.","Various factors may affect the operation of power generation systems. For example, inefficiencies, such as windage, can affect performance as described in J. E. Vrancik, , NASA Technical Note, NASA TN-D-4849 (October 1968), the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Additionally, certain fluids used in a power generation system can affect operation as described, for example, in V. Dostal, M. J. Driscoll, P. Hejzlar, , MIT-ANP-TR-100 (Mar. 10, 2004), the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.","Despite the previous advancements in power generation, there remains a need to provide techniques for dealing with the various operational factors and\/or optimizing the operation of power generation systems. It is desirable that power generation systems utilize closed loop Brayton Cycles that are capable of operating at even supercritical conditions (e.g., high-pressure and high density). In such cases, it is desirable to provide features to isolate components of the system from harsh conditions, provide hermetic conditions and\/or to handle the loads applied to the system. Preferably, such systems are capable of cooling components, reducing losses and\/or failures, operating at even extreme conditions (e.g., high thrust loads, pressures and\/or densities) and\/or otherwise enhancing operation. The present invention is provided to address these and other needs.","In at least one aspect, the present invention relates to a thermodynamic system for generating power including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing, an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor cavities, and a plurality of ridges extending from the low-pressure face of the compressor for pumping a working fluid as it passes over the compressor. The compressor has a high-pressure face facing an inlet of the compressor cavity and a low-pressure face on an opposite side thereof. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and is supported in the housing by bearings. The working fluid is pumped by the ridges, whereby a pressure differential between the high-pressure face and the low-pressure face is reduced, such that thrust is balanced across the compressor.","In another aspect, the present invention relates to a thermodynamic system for generating power for performing work including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing, an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor, and a plurality of seals positioned about the alternator for selectively isolating the rotor cavity from the turbine and compressor cavities. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and is supported in the housing by bearings. The seals selectively isolate the rotor cavity from the turbine and compressor cavities whereby a working fluid is selectively leaked into the rotor cavity to reduce the temperature therein.","In yet another aspect, the invention relates to a method of generating power for performing work involving providing a thermodynamic system including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing, and an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor cavities. The compressor has a high-pressure face facing an inlet of the compressor cavity and a low-pressure face on an opposite side thereof, the low-pressure face having a plurality of ridges. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and is supported in the housing by bearings. The method further involves compressing a working fluid by passing the working fluid across the compressor, generating a power output by passing the compressed working fluid across the turbine, and balancing thrust across the compressor by pumping the working fluid with a plurality of ridges as the working fluid passes over the compressor.","In another aspect, the invention relates to a method of generating power for performing work involving providing a thermodynamic system including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing, and an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor cavities. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and supported in the housing by bearings. The rotor cavity is fluidly isolated from the turbine and compressor cavities via seals. The method further involves compressing a working fluid by passing the working fluid across the compressor, generating a power output by passing the compressed working fluid across the turbine, and cooling the rotor cavity by selectively leaking working fluid from the compressor cavity into the turbine cavity via at least one selected from the group consisting of the plurality of seals.","Finally, in another aspect, the invention relates to a method of generating power for performing work involving providing a thermodynamic system including a housing, a turbine positioned in a turbine cavity of the housing, a compressor positioned in a compressor cavity of the housing and an alternator positioned in a rotor cavity between the turbine and compressor cavities. The alternator has a rotor shaft operatively connected to the turbine and compressor, and supported in the housing by bearings. The method further involving compressing a working fluid by passing the working fluid across the compressor, generating a power output by passing the compressed working fluid across the turbine, and pumping the working fluid from the rotor cavity to selectively lower pressure therein.","These and other aspects of the invention will be described herein.","Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above-identified Figures and described in detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","104","106","108","104","106","108","109"]},"Referring still to , the alternator  has a rotor shaft . The turbine  is operatively connected to the rotor shaft  for rotation therewith. The compressor  is also operatively connected to the rotor shaft  for rotation therewith. The alternator  is positioned in a rotor (or low) pressure cavity  with bearings  and seals  as will be described further herein.","The TAC  is fluidly connected to fluid circuit . As shown, the fluid circuit  has a plurality of conduits  that form a continuous or closed-loop flow path for passage of a working fluid. The working fluid flows through the fluid circuit  as indicated by the arrows -, -. The TAC  and fluid circuit  form a closed-loop Brayton Cycle for generating power.","As indicated by arrow , the working fluid passes into the compressor  for compression therein. The working fluid flows from the compressor  and to the turbine  as indicated by arrows -. A portion of the working fluid from the compressor  may be diverted back to the compressor as indicated by arrows -. The working fluid passes from the turbine  as indicated by arrows -, and joins the working fluid exiting the compressor  as it returns to the compressor as indicated by arrows -. Valves, such as valve  and , may be positioned in the fluid circuit  to selectively divert the working fluid along the desired path.","A portion of the working fluid may from time to time selectively be leaked into the rotor cavity  as indicated by arrow  (as described further herein). Fluid from the rotor cavity may selectively and\/or passively be released therefrom. The fluid may be drained from the fluid circuit  as indicated by arrow . The fluid may also (or alternatively) be released from the rotor cavity  as indicated by arrows , , and returned to the compressor  as indicated by arrows , . The fluid may be pumped from the rotor cavity , using a pump, such as gas booster . Pump  is provided in the fluid circuit  to increase the pressure of the working fluid as it exits the rotor cavity .","The fluid circuit  is provided with a chiller  for cooling the working fluid before it enters the compressor . The fluid circuit  is also provided with a heater  for heating the working fluid before it enters the turbine . The fluid circuit  is also provided with a recuperator  for recovering wasted heat from the fluid exiting the compressor , and using that wasted heat to cool fluid exiting the turbine . While the fluid circuit is depicted as having a chiller , a heater  and a recuperator , it will be appreciated that one or more heat exchangers may be positioned at various locations throughout the fluid circuit to selectively adjust the fluid parameters as it flows therethrough. The fluid circuit  is also provided with additional devices, such as flow meters , thermometers , pressure gauges , and densitometers , for measuring parameters of the working fluid.","While the thermodynamic system  is depicted as having certain devices, such  as valves (, ), heat exchangers (chiller , heater ), pumps (gas booster ), flow meters , thermometers , pressure gauges , and densitometers , along the fluid circuit , it will be appreciated that one or more of these and\/or other devices may be positioned in various locations about the thermodynamic system  for manipulating, measuring and\/or analyzing the working fluid as desired. The configuration of the fluid circuit  and\/or its features, device and\/or components may be adapted as desired so that the thermodynamic system  operates as desired. For example, the thermodynamic system  may also be provided with one or more TACs or other components and\/or devices described herein.","As used herein, a \u201cworking fluid\u201d refers to a fluid usable in the thermodynamic system  to operate the TAC  to generate the desired work. The working fluid preferably has a temperature, pressure and density that permits flow through the fluid circuit  to perform the desired operation. The working fluid may be any fluid that may be selectively heated, cooled, pressurized, drained, diverted and\/or otherwise manipulated through the thermodynamic system  to generate power. Examples of fluids that may be used as working fluids are inorganic compounds (e.g., SF6), noble gases (e.g., Xenon), olefins (e.g., ethylene), fuels (e.g., propane), refrigerants (e.g, C4F8), and combinations thereof. Additives, mixtures, injections and other varieties of one or more fluids may be used as working fluid and\/or in combination therewith.","The selected working fluid may also be a supercritical fluid (e.g., CO2, SF6, Xenon, propane, C4F8, and\/or most other refrigerants). A \u201csupercritical working fluid\u201d is a working fluid that operates at temperatures and pressures that are above but near the critical temperature and pressure for that fluid. A supercritical working fluid is typically a high density and high-pressure gas using a single phase fluid, such as carbon dioxide (CO2). Generally, this means that the fluid will operate at high-pressures and high densities. For example, CO2 has a critical temperature of about 88\u00b0 F. (304 K), a critical pressure of about 1070 psia (7.38 MPa), and a fluid density of about 47% the density of water (at room temperature and pressure).","The compressor  and turbine  are preferably adapted to operate with a supercritical working fluid. Other working and\/or supercritical fluids may also be used. Preferably, the supercritical working fluid operates with Brayton Cycles that have compressors that operate near the critical temperature and pressure of the supercritical working fluid. The actual choice for the working fluid may depend on factors, such as waste heat rejection temperature, maximum turbine inlet temperature that can be obtained using the heat source that is available, materials compatibility, decomposition temperature and other operational considerations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","102","100","102"]},"TAC  includes the turbine  and the compressor , with the alternator  positioned therebetween. The turbine , compressor  and alternator  are positioned in the housing  along the rotor shaft . These components preferably are integrated for cooperative operation. The turbine  operatively connects to rotor shaft  for rotation therewith. The compressor  is also operatively connected to rotor shaft  for rotation therewith.","Bearings (, ) are positioned in the housing  to provide support. Journal (or gas) bearings are positioned about the alternator  within the housing  to provide support thereto. As depicted, one journal bearing is positioned about the alternator  near the turbine , and another journal bearing is positioned about the alternator  near the compressor . Preferably, the journal bearings are configured to absorb forces (loads) applied to the alternator . These journal bearings may be used to prevent radial movement and\/or deflection of the housing  and\/or the components therein. For example, the journal bearings may be used to reduce deflection of the rotor shaft  during operation.","Thrust bearings  are positioned about the alternator  near the compressor  and within the housing  to provide support thereto. As depicted, the thrust bearings  are positioned between the journal bearing and the compressor . Preferably, the thrust bearings  are configured to absorb axial forces (loads) applied to the alternator . These thrust bearings  may be used to prevent movement and\/or deflection of the housing  and\/or the components therein. For example, the thrust bearings  may be used to absorb axial thrust applied to the compressor  during operation.","Preferably, the bearings (, ) are positioned about the housing  to support components therein and\/or to absorb forces (or loads) applied to the various components. The bearings (, ) may be any bearings positionable in the TAC  for operating with the components therein. For example, the bearings may be gas foil, ball, tilt pad, magnetic and\/or other bearings. The bearings ,  are preferably adapted to enhance operation and\/or resist equipment damage. While the bearings ,  are depicted in a certain configuration, it will be appreciated that various types and\/or number of bearings may be positioned at various locations in and\/or about the TAC to enhance operation. Preferably, bearings are positioned within rotor cavity  as will be described further herein.","The housing  has a compressor inlet  and a compressor outlet  in fluid communication with the fluid circuit  (). The working fluid passes from the fluid circuit  and to the compressor  via compressor inlet  as indicated by arrow . The working fluid is compressed as it flows past the compressor  and into a compressor cavity . The compressed working fluid flows out of compressor cavity , and out the compressor outlet  to the fluid circuit  as indicated by arrow .","Turbine  also has a turbine inlet  and a turbine outlet  in fluid communication with the fluid circuit  (). The working fluid passes from the fluid circuit  and into a turbine cavity  via turbine inlet  as indicated by arrow . The working fluid drives the turbine  as it flows through the turbine cavity . The working fluid flows past the turbine , out of the turbine cavity , and to the fluid circuit  via turbine outlet  as indicated by arrow . As the turbine  is rotated, it generates a power output that may be used to perform work.","The alternator  is positioned within a rotor (or low-pressure) cavity  of the housing . The alternator may be, for example, a permanent magnet alternator with a rotor shaft  rotationally movable therein. Rotor cavity  is positioned within housing  between the compressor cavity  and the turbine cavity . The rotor cavity  typically has a pressure lower than the pressure in the compressor and turbine cavities (, ).","The rotor cavity  is isolated from the compressor and turbine cavities (, ) by seals . The seals preferably provide a seal about the alternator . Seal is positioned in the housing  between the turbine  and the alternator . Seal is also positioned between the turbine  and the journal bearing . Seal is positioned in the housing  between the compressor  and the alternator . Seal is also positioned between the compressor  and the journal bearing . In this configuration, bearings , are positioned within the rotor cavity between the seals ","During operation, the bearings may be exposed to factors, such as heavy loads, high temperatures, high-pressures, corrosive fluids, and other harsh conditions. Such harsh conditions may cause components, such as the bearings, to fail. Preferably, the bearings ,  are placed in the rotor cavity  to isolate the bearings from harsh conditions in the system. Seals are positioned about the alternator to isolate the rotor cavity  from the compressor and turbine cavities , . In this configuration, the bearings ,  are contained in the lower pressure rotor cavity  away from the high-pressure working fluid.","The seals preferably selectively permit the passage of working fluid from the compressor cavity  and\/or turbine cavity , and into the rotor cavity . Preferably, the thermodynamic system  is configured such that fluid leaks past the seals  to reduce the temperature in the rotor cavity rotor cavity  as will be described further below. Preferably, the seals  operate in a manner that is compatible with the bearings and\/or assists in the operation thereof. In cases where the working fluid exiting the seals is a liquid at the selected rotor cavity pressure, liquid film bearings, such as tilt pad bearings, may be used.","The seals may be any seal(s) capable of fluidly isolating portions of the housing . Such seals may be, for example, labyrinth gas seals, dry liftoff seals, brush seals, windback seals, abradable seals, hole pattern seals and\/or other compatible seals. As depicted, the seals are positioned between the rotor cavity  and the turbine and compressor cavities (, ). However, it will be appreciated that one or more seals  may be placed in various locations about the TAC  to provide fluid isolation as desired.","The rotor cavity  has ports  in fluid communication with the fluid circuit  (). The ports  allow fluid to release from the rotor cavity  as indicated by arrows  (). Typically, fluid release occurs when working fluid passes from the compressor and\/or turbine cavities (,) and into the rotor cavity . Fluid passes from the rotor cavity  via ports  and into the fluid circuit as indicated by arrows . An auxiliary pump, such as gas booster  of , may  be placed in fluid communication with the rotor cavity  to selectively pump fluid therefrom.","Components, such as bearings and alternators, used in thermodynamic systems may have difficulty operating in harsh conditions, such as at high temperature or pressures. The components may also have difficulty operating when exposed to supercritical fluids that can have a corrosive effect. The pressure in the rotor cavity  may be lowered, for example by pumping fluid therefrom via pump , in such a manner as to protect the bearings from high-pressures during operation. The pressure in the rotor cavity  is preferably adjusted to enable operation of the TAC at even high-pressures, densities and\/or temperatures, such as those of supercritical fluids.","The seals  and pump  may be used to provide a system that is hermetic. As the working fluid flows from the rotor cavity , the fluid may be recirculated back into the fluid circuit , rather than being releasing into the surrounding environment. In cases where working fluids are flammable, toxic, or otherwise undesirable for release from the system, recirculation of the working fluid through the system may be desirable.","While the dimensions of the TAC  and portions thereof may be of any dimension capable of generating power, the TAC preferably has a compact configuration. Working fluids having high density and high-pressure, such as supercritical fluids, may allow for a more compact configuration. A compact configuration may be desirable to reduce costs, adapt to limited space environments, reduce windage and\/or enhance other operational factors. However, in some cases, operational limitations of, for example working fluid characteristics, may limit the ability to provide a compact design. The TAC dimensions are preferably configured according to fluid selection, rotor dynamics, desired power requirements, specific conditions and\/or to generate power for various applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","102","182","106","182","106","109","182","278","112"],"i":["b ","b ","b "]},"Compressor cavity  typically maintains a pressure higher than the pressure in the rotor cavity . As pressure differentials between the compressor cavity  and the rotor cavity  increase and\/or as deflection of the rotor shaft  and\/or other components increases, forces (loads) on the bearings ,  typically increase. During this time, seal preferably deforms to allow a portion of the working fluid to pass from the compressor cavity , over the seal and into the rotor cavity .","The flow of working fluid past the seals  and into the rotor cavity preferably provides a reduction of temperature therein. The flow of the working fluid past the seals and across the bearings ,  preferably provides for cooling thereof. Other components in the rotor cavity, such as the rotor shaft and\/or alternator, may also be cooled. Preferably, the thermodynamic system  is configured such that working fluid passing from the compressor cavity  is in the form of a gas as it leaks past the seal , and turns to a liquid as it enters the rotor cavity  and cools the bearings , . The leakage of fluid through the seals  preferably expands the working fluid in an approximate isenthalpic process thereby causing the fluid to cool. Depending on the parameter of the working fluid selected, the working fluid may be manipulated such that the working fluid converts from a gas to a liquid phase to achieve the cooling effect.","Referring still to , the compressor  has an end  operatively connected to the alternator  via rotor shaft  for rotation therewith. The compressor  has a low-pressure face  and a high-pressure face . The high-pressure face  faces toward the compressor inlet . The low-pressure face  is on an opposite side of the high-pressure face , and faces toward the rotor cavity. As the working fluid flows to the compressor  as indicated by arrow  and passes over the compressor , the compressor  rotates and compresses the working fluid. The working fluid passes across the compressor  and into compressor cavity . As fluid passes over the compressor , is passes along the high-pressure face  and along the low-pressure face .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["106","394","106","496","496","394","106","270","496","394","496","102","106"]},"The compressor  is also depicted as having a low-pressure face  with a plurality of ridges  thereon. The ridges  extend radially about the low-pressure face . The ridges  are depicted as having a linear shape extending from the low-pressure face  toward rotor cavity  (), but can have other shapes. Preferably, the ridges  are configured to act as pump-out vanes for manipulating the working fluid as it flows across the compressor .","Referring now to , the working fluid has a pressure (p) as it flows through the compressor inlet  and to the compressor . The pressure of the working fluid increases to a pressure (p) at the high-pressure face  of the compressor  as it passes over the vanes  and into the compressor cavity . The low-pressure face  of the compressor  is at a pressure (p) which is approximately the same as the compressor inlet pressure (p).","The pressure (p) of low-pressure face  is lower than the pressure (p) of high-pressure face . A pressure differential (\u0394p), therefore, exists between the low-pressure face  and the high-pressure face  of the compressor . For example, a compressor having a diameter of 1.5 inches (3.81 cm) and a pressure of 1000 psi (6.89 MPa) at the low-pressure face and a pressure of 2000 psi (13.79 MPa) at the high-pressure face during operation has a pressure differential across the compressor that can result in axial forces along the axis of the rotor shaft of up to about 1000 lbs (4448.22 N).","Ridges  are preferably used to increase pressure at the low-pressure face  to balance the pressure differential \u0394pacross the compressor . These ridges  act as pump-out vanes causing the pressure on the low-pressure face  of the compressor  to increase. Preferably, the increased pressure on the low-pressure face  decreases the pressure differential \u0394pbetween the low-pressure and high-pressure faces (,) of the compressor .","The pressure (p) of the high-pressure face  and the pressure (p) at the low-pressure face  are preferably balanced to reduce the thrust loads on the TAC . The dimensions of the ridges  and\/or vanes  may be adjusted to manipulate fluid flow and\/or reduce the total thrust. The manipulation of the pressures across the compressor to reduce the pressure differential \u0394pand reduce the associated thrust to the thermodynamic system, preferably near or to zero, is referred to as \u201cthrust balancing\u201d across the compressor. Preferably, the pressures are sufficiently balanced to prevent failures, reduce losses and\/or enhance operation.","The vanes  and\/or ridges  preferably pump the working fluid away from the seal as it flows past the compressor . Preferably, the compressor  pumps the working fluid in a manner that reduces leakage through seal and\/or reduces forces on the rotor shaft. Depending on the parameters (e.g., type, measurements, etc.) of the working fluid, the pressure in the compressor cavity  may be sufficiently high that the working fluid acts as a liquid. In such cases, the ridges  may be used to act as a liquid thrust bearing to handle the forces (loads) generated by the flow of the working fluid.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"],"b":["104","558","558","567","558","104","558","280"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1-4","FIGS. 1-4"],"b":["601","603","633","100","102","603","100","109","108","104","106"]},"The working fluid is compressed (step ) in the compressor cavity  by passing the working fluid across the compressor  (see, e.g., ). The working fluid passes across a high-pressure face  and a low-pressure face  of the compressor  (see, e.g., ). A power output is generated (step ) by passing the compressed working fluid across the turbine  (see, e.g., ).","TAC components, such as bearings ,, rotor  and\/or alternator  in the rotor cavity , may be cooled (step ) by selectively leaking a portion of the working fluid past one or more seals  and into the rotor cavity  of the housing  (see, e.g., ).","Thrust applied to the rotor shaft  is balanced (step ) by pumping the working fluid as it passes across a low-pressure side  of the compressor . Preferably, the pumping reduces a pressure differential between the low-pressure face  and a high-pressure face  of the compressor  (see, e.g., ). Thrust may be further balanced by providing cutouts  in the turbine  to manipulate fluid flow therethrough.","The working fluid may be manipulated as it flows through the system. The working fluid may be chilled (step ) as it passes from the turbine  to the compressor . The working fluid may be heated (step ) as it passes from the compressor  to the turbine . Heat exchangers, such as chiller , recuperator  and\/or heater , may be provided to adjust parameters, such as temperature, of the working fluid as it passes through the system (see, e.g., ).","The parameters of the working fluid may be measured () as the working fluid flows through the fluid circuit. Various devices, such as flow meters , thermometers , pressure gauges , and densitometers , may be provided to measure fluid parameters (see, e.g., ).","At least a portion of the working fluid may be released () from the rotor cavity . Working fluid flowing from the turbine  and\/or compressor  into the rotor cavity  may be released and\/or pumped from the rotor cavity  as shown by arrows  (see, e.g., FIGS. ,). At least a portion of the working fluid may be recirculated (step ) from the rotor cavity  to the compressor  (see, e.g., ). The working fluid passing from the rotor cavity  may be pumped therefrom (step ) (see, ).","The flow of the working fluid may be selectively manipulated (step ) as it passes through the thermodynamic system . Various devices, such as valves , , heat exchangers , , and pump , may be used to manipulate the fluid (see, e.g., ).","To further demonstrate the operation of the thermodynamic system, an example of an operation using the thermodynamic system of  is provided. This example is used to further clarify the operation, and is not intended to limit the invention herein. In this example, the thermodynamic system  is provided with a supercritical CO2 working fluid having a critical pressure of about 1069 psia (7.37 MPa) and temperature of about 304.1 K.","Near the critical point, the CO2 working fluid typically has a high density (about 50-60% of water) and a high-pressure (about 2-20 MPa). When operating at supercritical conditions, the fluid density of the CO2 working fluid is near the density of a liquid (e.g., water), but typically behaves like a gas in that it fills the entire volume of a container (as does a gas) and has the viscosity of a gas. The very high density of the CO2 working fluid at its critical point may be used to enable high power densities for the TAC.","In cases, such as this, where the working fluid has a high density near liquids rather than gases, the TAC design may be very compact. For example, a TAC  using the CO2 working fluid and operating at a power output of about 100-300 kWe may be provided with a housing having a diameter of about 12 inches (30.48 cm) and a length of about 24 inches (60.96 cm). The TAC also preferably has a rotor shaft  with a small radius of about 1 inch (2.54 cm) and permanent magnet (or other rotors) of about 9 inches (22.86) in length. In another example, a 20 MW electrical system may be provided with a compressor diameter of about 5-6 inches (12.7-15.24 cm) and a turbine diameter of about 10-12 inches (25.4-30.48 cm). A 200 MW electric system will typically increase this dimensions by another factor of about three (3) to about (4). The TAC is preferably operated with supercritical working fluids under near supercritical conditions to provide a reduction of size from that of typical thermodynamic systems.","The size of the TAC is also preferably reduced to generating higher rotary speeds. When using supercritical working fluids with high densities, shaft speeds for the TAC may be increased to, for example about 75,000 rpm for a power output of about 150 kWe. In this example, the TAC  may be provided with a rotor shaft having a 1 inch (2.54 cm) radius and a 12 inches (30.48 cm) length, and the alternator with a permanent magnet having a radius of 1.05 inches (2.67 cm), a length of 6.6 inches (16.76 cm) and a gap of 0.125 inches (0.32 cm). Preferably, the diameter of the rotor shaft is reduced to further reduce the windage losses.","Preferably, the pressure at the compressor inlet  () is provided at just above the critical pressure and temperature of the supercritical working fluid (for example at about 1070 psia (7.38 MPa) and 305K for CO2). Preferably, the pressure in the rotor cavity (200 psia (1.38 MPa)) is kept below the supercritical pressure of the CO2 working fluid for compatibility and to reduce windage loss effects. As described with respect to , the rotor cavity  is isolated from high-pressure cavities ,  by seals . The pressure in the rotor cavity may be lowered by using a pump  to lower the rotor cavity pressure where the bearings , and rotor are located. Preferably, the rotor cavity pressure is lowered sufficiently below the inlet pressure to reduce failures and\/or improve performance.","The seals  may be used to leak fluid from the higher pressure cavities ,  into the rotor cavity  to cool the CO2 working fluid to a liquid as it enters the rotor cavity . The liquid preferably passes over the alternator and cools the rotor in such a manner that the rotor shaft continues rotating. The temperature of the liquid is preferably below the incoming fluid in such a manner that provides for expansion of the fluid as is passes through the seals. It is preferable to cool the fluid sufficiently to cool the alternator and\/or other components in the rotor cavity without causing freezing of the working fluid. The cool working fluid may also be used to cool the bearings and\/or to increase the reliability of the bearings.","The pressure in the rotor cavity  may also be lowered to reduce the solubility of the elastomers within the wiring. Working fluids, such as CO2 and other refrigerants, may be capable of dissolving various components that may be used in the TAC, such as portions of the stator windings containing organics and elastomers in plastic insulation. While a canned stator may be used to protect itself from the working fluid, the stator and its windings are preferably positioned directly in the working fluid. A reduced pressure in the rotor cavity may be used to reduce the corrosive effect of the working fluid on the components in the TAC.","The pressure of the rotor cavity preferably remains sufficiently below the inlet pressure (up to about 450 psia (3.10 MPa)) to reduce windage losses and\/or the likelihood of failures. At a design flow rate of about 3.52 kg\/s for the CO2 working fluid, and for a compressor inlet pressure of about 7.69 MPa at about 305.3 K, the estimated power needed to compress the working fluid is about 50 kW. As the rotor cavity pressure is increased, the power loss typically increases. As the rotor cavity pressure (p) nears the critical pressure of 1069 psi (7.37 MPa), the power losses (W) may approach about 50 kW.","Power may also be used to pump working fluid from the rotor cavity to lower the rotor cavity pressure. Reducing the rotor cavity pressure typically also reduces the power losses in the system. For example, for a TAC operating at a rotor cavity pressure of about 200 psia (1.38 MPa), the rotor cavity pressure may generate windage losses (W) of only about 5 kW in comparison to the windage loss of about 50 kW for a TAC operating at a rotor cavity pressure near the critical pressure (about a factor of about 10). The rotor cavity may also be provided with other fluids that have lower density (of about 10%, or less than the density of the supercritical fluid) to reduce windage power losses and\/or overheating. The rotor cavity pressure and\/or density is preferably lowered to a level that optimizes the overall power loss (e.g., power used to operate the system, reduce windage and\/or increased pumping power).","It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example, the system may be provided with multiple TACs positioned about the fluid circuit with corresponding conduits, components and\/or devices to enable operations using the TACs alone and\/or in combination, as desired."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["So that the above recited features and advantages of the present invention can be understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention, briefly summarized above, may be had by reference to the embodiments thereof that are illustrated in the appended drawings. These drawings are used to illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention, and are not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments. The figures are not necessarily to scale and certain features and certain views of the figures may be shown exaggerated in scale or in schematic in the interest of clarity and conciseness.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
