---
title: Quantity smoother
abstract: In an embodiment, a quantity smoother includes a first stage and a second stage. The first stage is operable to receive a sequence of raw samples of a quantity and to generate from the raw samples intermediate samples of the quantity, the intermediate samples having a reduced level of fluctuation relative to the sequence of raw samples. The second stage is coupled to the first stage and is operable to generate from the intermediate samples resulting samples of the quantity, the resulting samples having a reduced level of fluctuation relative to the sequence of intermediate samples. For example, such a quantity smoother may be part of a target-ranging system on board a fighter jet, and may smooth an error in an estimated target range so that the fighter pilot may more quickly and confidently determine in his head a range window within which the target lies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08164510&OS=08164510&RS=08164510
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08164510
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090706
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is a Continuation In Part of copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/364,480, filed Feb. 2, 2009, which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61\/063,251, 61\/063,290, 61\/063,271 and 61\/063,207, filed on Jan. 31, 2008. All of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.","The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. N00019-02-C-3002. Accordingly, the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","This Summary is provided to introduce, in a simplified form, a selection of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","In an embodiment, a quantity smoother includes a first stage and a second stage. The first stage is operable to receive a sequence of raw samples of a quantity, and to generate from the raw samples intermediate samples of the quantity, the sequence of intermediate samples having a reduced level of fluctuation relative to the sequence of raw samples. And the second stage is operable to generate from the intermediate samples smoothened samples of the quantity, the sequence of smoothened samples having a reduced level of fluctuation relative to the sequence of intermediate samples.","For example, such a quantity smoother may be part of a target-ranging system on board a fighter jet. A ranging portion of the system may recursively estimate the range of the target from the jet and generate samples of a raw error in the range estimate. And the smoother may smoothen the raw-error samples so that the fighter pilot may more quickly determine from the samples a range window within which the target lies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","12","10"],"sub":["AZ ","RANGE "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","14","10"],"sub":["EL ","RANGE ","RANGE "]},"Geometrically speaking, the target T lies in an elevation plane which is perpendicular to the jet azimuth plane  and which includes the straight line  along which His measured. For example, in this embodiment, the elevation plane may be coincident with the page of .","Referring to , the fighter jet  typically includes a targeting system (not shown in ) for detecting the target T, and for determining one or more of the following targeting parameters: \u03b8, \u03b8, R, H, and V. For example, the targeting system may actively detect and range (i.e., determine Rfor) the target T by transmitting a signal (e.g., a radar signal) that impinges upon, and that is reflected back to the jet  by, the target T, and by receiving the reflected signal with a directional antenna (not shown in ). The targeting system may then determine \u03b8and \u03b8by analyzing the phase of the received signal at each of multiple elements of the antenna. Alternatively, the targeting system may passively detect and range the target T by similarly analyzing a signal emitted by the target T to determine \u03b8and \u03b8. Passive detection may be useful when the pilot of the fighter jet  does not want to alert the personnel manning the target T to the jet's presence, or when the target is a \u201cpop-up\u201d target (e.g., a hand-held rocket launcher) that is difficult or impractical to actively detect. Because such target detecting and ranging systems are known, the details of such a system are omitted for brevity.","Referring again to , although the target detecting and ranging system onboard the fighter jet  can determine from \u03b8and \u03b8that the target T lines along a straight-line path , the system cannot determine from these angles alone a value for R, H, or V.","Therefore, the targeting system onboard the jet  needs additional information to determine at least one of R, H, and V. Once the targeting system determines a value for at least one of these parameters, it can determine the value for the remaining ones of these parameters via a trigonometric identity such as the law of sines.","For example, a targeting system employing passive detection may obtain this additional information by comparing a signature of a signal emitted from the target T with signal signatures that are stored in a database. If the signature of the emitted signal matches a signature in the database, then the targeting system may be able to identify the target T, and may be able to retrieve from the database information describing the target or the emitted signal. For example, if the database includes a lookup table that effectively plots distance vs. signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) for the emitted signal, then the targeting system may calculate a value for Rby measuring the SNR of the emitted signal at the fighter jet  and obtaining a value for Rfrom the lookup table.","Alternatively, if the target detecting and ranging system determines that the target T is a type of ground-based target (e.g., a tank or rocket launcher), then, if the target is at sea level, Vis substantially equal to the altitude of the fighter jet \u2014because the altitude is measured by an altimeter (not shown in ) on board the jet, the targeting system has access to the altitude. Once the targeting system has a value for V, the system can calculate values for Hand Rusing, for example, the law of sines.","In yet another alternative, the targeting system may instruct the pilot to manoeuvre the jet  so as to significantly change at least the azimuth angle \u03b8from measurement point to measurement point, and then locate T at the intersection of the multiple Hlines at these different angles \u03b8. Such a technique is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,132,961 which is incorporated by reference.","In still another alternative, the targeting system may obtain azimuth and elevation angles \u03b8and \u03b8from a second object, such as a second fighter jet, and determine the location of the target T using \u03b8and \u03b8from the second object and \u03b8and \u03b8from the jet . Such a technique is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/364,480, which is incorporated by reference.","With any of the above-described targeting techniques, the targeting system may calculate one or more of the target parameters \u03b8, \u03b8, R, H, and Vrecursively over a period of time. Taking Rfor example, the targeting system may calculate an initial sample for Rthat has a value of relatively low accuracy, and then may calculate successive samples for Rusing one or more of the previous samples such that over a period of time (e.g., 1-60 seconds) the samples of Rconverge toward a steady-state value that has a higher accuracy, for example, an accuracy within approximately \u00b15%.","In addition, the targeting system may calculate a percent parameter error (PPE) for one or more of these parameters. Taking Rfor example, the targeting system may calculate an initial sample of a percent range error (PRE) in R, this initial sample having a relatively high value, and may then calculate successive samples of PRE, each of the samples of PRE corresponding to a respective sample of R. Over a period of time (e.g., 1-60 seconds), as the samples of Rconverge toward a more accurate steady-state value, the samples of PRE converge toward a lower steady-state value. Therefore, an observer such as a pilot may interpret the convergence of the PRE samples toward a lower value as indicating that the samples of Rare converging toward a more accurate value.","The targeting system may display to the pilot of the jet  the sequences of samples calculated for a targeting parameter and its corresponding PPE so that the pilot can use these samples to make a flight decision. For example, the pilot may monitor the samples of Rand PRE to determine when the target T is in range of a missile with which the jet  is armed.","Because a pilot may have only a short period of time (e.g., a few seconds) to make a decision (e.g., evade or destroy) regarding a target T, the targeting system may provide to the pilot targeting parameters and corresponding PPEs that are sufficient to allow the pilot to make an informed decision within a specified time.","It is theorized that a pilot can more confidentially make mental calculations involving the parameter and PPE samples, and thus can more quickly make decisions based on the parameter and PPE samples, if at least the PPE samples converge toward a steady-state value in a smooth and relatively monotonic manner. Referring to Table I, an example of Rand PRE converging smoothly and monotonically is discussed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE I"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Approximate"]},{"entry":[{},{},"R(nautical",{},"Range Window"]},{"entry":[{},"Time","miles)","PRE (%)","(nautical miles)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"T","30","\u00b150","15-45"]},{"entry":[{},"T","27","\u00b135","18-36"]},{"entry":[{},"t","25","\u00b125","19-31"]},{"entry":[{},"t","23","\u00b117","19-27"]},{"entry":[{},"t","22","\u00b110","20-24"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In this example, the jet  is carrying a missile with a range of 25 nautical miles, and the pilot would like to fire the missile at the target T as soon as the target is in range.","So, at an initial time t, the targeting system displays an initial value of 30 nautical miles for R, and an initial PRE of \u00b150%. This allows the pilot to mentally calculate that the target T is within a range window that is between approximately 15 and 45 nautical miles from the jet . Because this range window extends beyond the missile range of 25 nautical miles, the pilot realizes that if he fires the missile at this time, then the missile may be unable to reach and destroy the target T.","Similarly, at a second time t, the targeting system displays a value of 27 nautical miles for R, and a PRE of \u00b135%. This allows the pilot to mentally calculate that the target T is between approximately 18 and 36 nautical miles from the jet . Because this range window extends beyond the missile range of 25 nautical miles, the pilot realizes that if he fires the missile at this time, then the missile may be unable to reach and destroy the target T. But the pilot has information sufficient to realize that the maximum range is getting smaller (a decrease from 45 to 36 nautical miles).","At a third time t, the targeting system displays a value of 25 nautical miles for R, and a PRE of \u00b125%. This allows the pilot to mentally calculate that the target T is between approximately 18 and 31 nautical miles from the jet . Because this range window extends beyond the missile range of 25 nautical miles, the pilot continues to realize that he should not yet fire the missile. But the pilot also has information sufficient to see that the maximum range is continuing to get smaller (a decrease from approximately 36 to 31 nautical miles).","At a fourth time t, the targeting system displays a value of 23 nautical miles for R, and a PRE of \u00b117%. This allows the pilot to mentally calculate that the target T is between approximately 19 and 27 nautical miles from the jet . Because this range window still extends beyond the missile range of 25 nautical miles, the pilot continues to realize that he should not yet fire the missile. But the pilot has information sufficient to see that the maximum range continues to get smaller (a decrease from approximately 31 to 27 nautical miles).","Finally, at a fifth time t, the targeting system displays a value of 22 nautical miles for R, and a PRE of \u00b110%. This allows the pilot to mentally calculate that the target T is between approximately 20 and 24 nautical miles from the jet . Because the maximum value of this range window is less than 25 nautical miles, and because the range window has converged relatively smoothly and monotonically from t-t, the pilot has information sufficient to be confident that the target T is in range of the missile, and that he can now fire the missile.","Unfortunately, a targeting system may generate target parameter and\/or PPE samples that do not converge to respective steady-state values relatively smoothly and monotonically, and this uneven convergence may potentially increase the time required by a pilot to make a decision regarding a target.","That is, the targeting system may generate target parameter and\/or PPE samples that oscillates (sometimes wildly) until they eventually converge toward a steady-state value. For example, such oscillating in the PRE samples may cause the window for Rto grow significantly, then shrink significantly, then grow significantly, and so on. As an analogy, in this example the target system is generating the PRE samples in an under-damped manner, such that the PRE samples \u201cring,\u201d much like an electrical signal generated by a circuit with an under-damped transient response may \u201cring.\u201d","And this oscillation of the target parameter and\/or PPE samples may make it more difficult for the pilot to make mental calculations involving these samples, and may increase the time before the pilot feels confident that a particular target parameter is within a particular window (e.g., that the target parameter Ris within a window that indicates that the target is within the range of a missile).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["20","20"]},"The quantity smoother  includes a first stage  and a second stage .","The first stage  receives a stream of raw quantity samples, and generates from the raw samples a stream of intermediate samples that have a lower level of oscillation than the raw samples. For example, the first stage  may be a low-pass type of filter having a latency. Generally, the latency is the number of samples received by the first stage  before the first stage generates a first intermediate sample, and is dependent on the filtering algorithm. In an embodiment, the first stage  may be a median filter as discussed below in conjunction with .","The second stage  receives the stream of intermediate samples from the first stage , and generates from the intermediate samples a stream of smoothened samples that have a lower level of oscillation than the intermediate samples, and that are more monotonic than the stream of raw samples. For example, the second stage  may be a curve fitter that fits the intermediate samples to one or more curves, that generates the smoothened samples from the one or more curves, and that has a latency. In an embodiment, the second stage  fits received samples to one or more fifth-order polynomials as discussed below in conjunction with .","Still referring to , alternate embodiments of the quantity smoother  are contemplated. For example, although described as having two stages, the smoother  may have more or fewer than two stages, and these stages may each operate according to any algorithm suitable to aid in sample smoothing. Furthermore, although shown coupled in series, the stages of the smoother  may be coupled in parallel, or some of the stages may be coupled in parallel, and some of the stages may be coupled in series.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","20","20","30","30"]},"In addition to the quantity smoother , the targeting system  includes an antenna , signal processor , quantity estimator , a raw-percent-error determiner , and a display .","The targeting system  may be disposed in one of a variety of locations. For example, the system  may be disposed in a vehicle such as a fighter jet, tank, ship, or space craft, in a portable base station such as a portable missile launcher, or in a permanent base station.","The antenna  is operable to receive at least one signal that carries information indicative of a location of a target. If the targeting system  is actively detecting and ranging a target, such signals may include radar signals that are reflected by the target to the antenna . These radar signals may originate from the antenna  or from another antenna (not shown) associated with the targeting system , such as another antenna mounted to the vehicle in which the targeting system is disposed. In contrast, if the targeting system  is passively detecting and ranging a target, such signals may include signals that are emitted from or reflected by the target itself. Antennas suitable for use as the antenna , and techniques for actively and passively detecting and ranging a target, are known. An example of a known technique for passively detecting and ranging a target is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,132,961, which is incorporated by reference.","The signal processor  extracts from the at least one signal received by the antenna  information indicative of the location of the target, and converts this information into raw data. For example, the signal processor  may determine the instantaneous azimuth and elevation angles \u03b8and \u03b8at which the received signal is incident to the antenna , may determine the type and instantaneous strength of the signal, and then may convert the angles, signal type, and signal strength into raw data samples. The signal processor  may also determine the altitude of the vehicle carrying the targeting system , and convert the altitude into additional raw data samples. The signal processor  may continually process the received signal and determine the vehicle altitude over a period of time, and periodically update the raw data samples. For example, the signal processor  may generate raw data samples for the azimuth angle, the elevation angle, the signal strength, and the vehicle altitude once every second. Furthermore, the signal processor  may be implemented in hardware, software, or in both hardware and software.","The parameter estimator  estimates from the raw data a stream of samples for one or more estimated target parameters TP. Examples of such estimated target parameters TPinclude azimuth angle, elevation angle, horizontal range, vertical range, and actual range. The parameter estimator  may be implemented in hardware, software, or in both hardware and software.","The parameter estimator  may estimate the TPsamples recursively, and this recursive estimation may cause the samples to oscillate as discussed above.","For example, the parameter estimator  may estimate a first set of X, Y, Z coordinates for the target based on a first set of raw data from the signal processor , and then generate an estimated sample for target parameter R(range to target) based on this first set of coordinates.","Next, the estimator  may estimate a second set of X,Y,Z coordinates for the target based on a second set of raw data samples from the processor .","Then, the estimator  may estimate a first hybrid set of X, Y, Z coordinates based on the first and second sets of coordinates. For example, the estimator  may average the first and second sets of coordinates to generate the first hybrid set of coordinates, although the estimation algorithm may be more complicated than this.","Next, the estimator  generates a second estimated sample of Rbased on the first hybrid set of coordinates.","Then, the parameter estimator  generates subsequent estimated samples for Rtaking into account the current set of estimated target coordinates X, Y, Z and at least some of the previous sets of estimated coordinates X, Y, Z.","These subsequent estimated samples for Reventually converge toward or to a steady-state value of R, the accuracy of which depends on the error introduced by the antenna , the channel over which the signal received by the antenna propagates, the processor , and the estimator . Of course if the target system  is in a moving vehicle, if the ranged target is moving, or if both the vehicle carrying the target system and the ranged target are moving relative to each other, then the steady-state value of Rwill change based on this movement, but with reduced or no oscillation after the convergence period.","There are conventional algorithms that the parameter estimator  may employ to estimate target parameters. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 7,132,961, which is incorporated by reference, discusses a target-parameter estimator that employs a Kalmann algorithm.","Still referring to , the raw-error determiner  estimates for each stream of TPsamples a respective stream of samples for the raw percentage parameter error (PPE) in each TP. That is, each sample of a PPEstream corresponds to a respective sample of a respective TPstream. The determiner  estimates each sample of a PPEstream from the corresponding sample of a corresponding TPstream and from information representative of the errors introduced into the TPsamples by, for example, the antenna , the channel over which the signal received by the antenna propagates, the processor , and the estimator . Furthermore, the raw-error determiner  may be implemented in hardware, software, or both hardware and software.","More specifically, the raw-error determiner  includes an accuracy determiner  and a raw-percent-parameter-error (PPE) calculator .","For each sample in a stream of TPsamples, the accuracy determiner  determines a respective 1-sigma sample \u03c3, which is the statistical standard deviation for the corresponding sample of TP. Therefore, the determiner  generates a stream of samples of \u03c3, where each sample corresponds to a respective sample of TP. Algorithms and techniques for calculating the \u03c3samples are known, and, therefore, further discussion of the calculation of the \u03c3samples is omitted for brevity.","For each sample of \u03c3, the raw PPE calculator  calculates a corresponding sample of PPEaccording to the following equation:\n\n=100\u00b7\u03c3\u2003\u20031)\n","Still referring to , the quantity smoother  smoothens the PPEsamples by reducing or eliminating the oscillation in these samples. That is, the smoother  acts to dampen this oscillation in a manner similar to that discussed above in conjunction with . Furthermore, the quantity smoother  may be implemented in hardware, software, or both hardware and software.","In an embodiment, the first stage  of the quantity smoother  includes a filter , and the second stage  includes a curve fitter .","The filter  receives the PPEsamples from the error determiner , and generates from these samples a stream of samples PPE, which converge toward a steady-state value more smoothly and more monotonically than the PPE, samples. For example, the filter  may be a median filter. The operation of an embodiment of the filter  is discussed below in conjunction with .","The curve fitter  receives the samples PPE, and generates from these samples a stream of samples PPE, which converge toward a steady-state value even more smoothly and more monotonically than the PPEsamples do. The curve fitter  does this by fitting the PPEsamples to one or more known curves, and by then generating the PPEsamples from this curve\/these curves.","More specifically, in an embodiment, in response to each sample of PPEfrom the filter , the curve fitter  fits this and all previous samples of PPEto a best-fit curve, and then generates a sample of PPEfrom this curve, this sample of PPEcorresponding to the most recent sample of PPE. Because the best-fit curve may be different for each sample of PPE, the curve fitter  may fit each sample to a different curve. For example, where it is known that the PPEsamples converge approximately according to a decaying exponential, then the curve fitter  may fit the values of PPEto a fifth-order polynomial. In response to each sample of PPE, the curve fitter  may alter the coefficients of this polynomial to achieve the best curve fit. The operation of an embodiment of the curve fitter  is discussed below in conjunction with .","The display  successively displays to the pilot (or other observer) each sample of TPwith a corresponding sample of PPE, for example, in a display format similar to that of Table I above. That is, the display  displays to the pilot the most recent sample of TPand the corresponding most recent sample of PPE, and updates these samples as they are generated by the quantity estimator  and the quantity smoother , respectively\u2014of course the targeting system may have to delay the TPsamples to account for the latency of the quantity smoother . This allows the pilot to perceive the PPEvalues converging toward a steady-state value relatively monotonically and with little or no oscillation, and thus may allow the pilot to more quickly determine when the value of TPis within a particular window (for example, when a range to a target indicates that the target is within missile range).","Still referring to , alternate embodiments of the targeting system  are contemplated. For example, as mentioned above, although shown as smoothing only a single stream of PPEsamples, the system  may smoothen additional streams of PPEsamples, may smoothen one or more streams of TPsamples, or may smoothen streams of PPEsamples and TP. Furthermore, the quantity smoother  may be designed as part of the original targeting system , or may be installed as an add-on to an existing targeting system.","Referring to , the operation of an embodiment of the targeting system  of  is discussed where the system is disposed on a fighter jet such as the fighter jet  of , and where the system estimates the range to a target and the percentage error in the estimated range.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["60","62","36"],"sub":["Range",{"sub2":"\u2014"},"est"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"sub":["Raw","Range",{"sub2":"\u2014"},"est "],"b":"38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":"46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4"],"sub":"Smooth","b":"48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 6-8"]},"Referring to , the parameter estimator  begins generating samples of R(plot ) at time t(t=0) seconds, and, in this embodiment, subsequently generates a new sample t(t=n) once every second. The samples of Rconverge substantially to the actual range (plot ) after about forty seconds. But as discussed above, in some circumstances a pilot may need to make a decision (e.g., destroy the target, evade the target) regarding the ranged target within a time that is significantly less than forty seconds, for example, within ten seconds.","Referring to , the error determiner  also begins generating samples of PREat time t, and, in this embodiment, subsequently generates a new sample every second. Although these samples converge toward a steady-state value of approximately 5%, they do so non-monotonically, and they continue to oscillate even at fifty seconds, which may be beyond the time within which the pilot would like to make a decision regarding the target.","Referring to , the filter  generates samples of PREevery second. One can see that the samples of PREare more monotonic and barely oscillate as compared to the samples of PRE, ().","Referring to , , and , the operation of an embodiment of the filter  is described where the filter implements a one-dimensional median-filter function.","A one-dimensional median filter may include two or more parallel first-in-first-out (FIFO) buffers each having a length L. The samples to be filtered are shifted into the first FIFO one at a time such that the sample to be filtered is at the center location of the first FIFO if L is an odd number, and the sample to be filtered is in one of the two center locations of the first FIFO if L is an even number. For samples at the beginning or end of a sample stream, zeros may be used to fill the empty locations of the FIFO. Next, the samples are reordered from lowest to highest value and then parallel loaded from the first FIFO into the second FIFO. The filtered sample generated by the filter  equals the sample in the center location of the second FIFO if L is an odd number, and equals the average of the two samples in the two center locations of the second FIFO if L is an even number. Then, the next sample is shifted into the first FIFO, and the procedure repeats.","For example purposes, the operation of an embodiment of the filter  is discussed in which: the filter  includes two parallel FIFO buffers having lengths L=7; the first FIFO is represented in the subsequent text by straight brackets; the second FIFO is represented in the subsequent text by curved brackets; and the first ten samples of PRE, (), rounded to the nearest integer, are decimal 26, 29, 23, 13, 14, 9, 12, 9, 7, and 8.","Initially, at sample time t, the first FIFO buffer is loaded from right to left with samples of PREas follows:","[0 0 0 26 29 23 13]","where the first sample (26) of PREis in the center location of the buffer, and the leftmost three buffer locations are loaded with zeros. There is a latency of three samples because it is not until the fourth sample time tthat the first sample (26) is in the center location of the first FIFO buffer. But the targeting system  () makes this latency transparent to the pilot as discussed below in conjunction with . Furthermore, to avoid confusion, the plot of  has not been shifted in time to show this latency. Therefore, the sample of PREat sample time tin  corresponds to the samples of Rand PREat the time tin , respectively.","Next, these samples are reordered from lowest to highest and loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{0 0 0 13 23 26 29}","Then, the filter  generates the first sample of PREequal to (13), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This first sample (13) is plotted in  at sample time t(as stated above, the plot of  has not been time shifted to show the latency introduced by the filter ).","Next, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which, in response to this shift, has the following contents:","[0 0 26 29 23 13 14]","where the second sample (29) of PREis in the center location of the buffer, and the leftmost two buffer locations are loaded with zeros.","Then, these samples are reordered from lowest to highest and loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{0 0 13 14 23 26 29}","Next, the filter  generates the second sample of PREequal to (14), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This second sample (14) is plotted in  at time t.","Then, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which, in response to this shift, has the following contents:","[0 26 29 23 13 14 9]","where the third sample (23) of PREis in the center location of the buffer, and the leftmost buffer location is loaded with a zero.","Next, these samples are reordered from lowest to highest and are loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{0 9 13 14 23 26 29}","Then, the filter  generates the third sample of PREequal to (14), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This third sample (14) is plotted in  at t.","Next, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which, in response to this shift, has the following contents:","[26 29 23 13 14 9 12]","where the fourth sample (13) of PREis in the center location of the buffer.","Then, these samples are reordered from lowest to highest and are loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{9 12 13 14 23 26 29}","Next, the filter  generates the fourth sample of PREequal to (14), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This fourth sample 14 is plotted in  at t.","Then, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which, in response to this shift, has the following contents:","[29 23 13 14 9 12 9]","where the fifth sample (14) of PREis in the center location of the buffer.","Next, these samples are reordered from highest to lowest and are loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{9 9 12 13 14 23 29}","Then, the filter  generates the fifth sample of PREequal to (13), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This fifth sample (13) is plotted in  at sample time t.","Next, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which now has the following contents:","[23 13 14 9 12 9 7]","where the sixth sample (9) of PREis in the center location of the buffer.","Then, these samples are reordered from lowest to highest and are loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{7 9 9 12 13 14 23}","Next, the filter  generates the sixth sample of PREequal to (12), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This sixth sample (12) is plotted in  at sample time t.","Then, at sample time t, the next sample of PREis right shifted into the first FIFO buffer, which now has the following contents:","[13 14 9 12 9 7 8]","where the seventh sample (12) of PREis in the center location of the buffer.","Next, these samples are reordered from highest to lowest and are loaded into the second FIFO buffer as follows:","{7 8 9 9 12 13 14}","Then, the filter  generates the seventh sample of PREequal to (9), which is the value of the sample in the center (fourth) location of the second FIFO buffer. This seventh sample (9) is plotted in  at time t.","Therefore, the first seven samples of PREgenerated by the filter  are: 13, 14, 14, 14, 13, 12, and 9.","The filter  continues operating in this manner to generate the eighth and higher samples of PREuntil the remaining PREsamples (from the eighth sample onward) are filtered.","Still referring to , alternate embodiments of the filter  are contemplated. For example, the filter  may have a length other than L=7. Generally, the trade off is that smaller values of L introduce less latency, but larger values of L provide a stronger filtering. Furthermore, although shown as being loaded from the right, the PREsamples may be shifted in from the left side of the first FIFO buffer. Moreover, although described as reordering the samples in the first FIFO buffer and loading the reordered samples into the second FIFO buffer, the samples may be reordered after they are loaded into the second FIFO buffer.","Referring to , an operation of an embodiment of the curve fitter  is described.","The curve fitter  receives the PREsamples 13, 14, 14, 14, 13, 12, 9 . . . from the filter  in sequence.","For each of these PREsamples, the curve fitter  fits the current and all prior samples to a fifth-order polynomial that generally represents a decaying exponential. This polynomial may be a finite series expansion of e. For example, this polynomial may include the first six terms of a Taylor or McClauren series expansion. Although the polynomial is always a fifth-order polynomial in this example, the curve fitter  can change the curve defined by the polynomial by changing one or more of the coefficients of the polynomial.","Because a single PREsample can be fit to any curve, the curve fitter  may have a latency of, for example, three or four PREsamples. Because the curve fitter  operates on the PREsamples from the filter , the total latency of the quantity smoother  is the sum of the latencies of the filter and the curve fitter. Therefore, one may design the filter  and curve fitter  such that the latency of the quantity smoother  is not greater than a specified latency. As discussed below, the target system  makes the latency of the quantity smoother  transparent to the pilot by displaying only corresponding samples of TPand PPE(Rand PREin the described example).","So, for example purposes, assume that the curve fitter  requires at least three PREsamples to fit to a curve.","Therefore, in response to the third sample (14) of PRE, the curve fitter  finds a first fifth-order polynomial that best fits the first three samples (13 14 14) of PREusing a conventional curve-fitting technique. For example, the curve fitter  may find the fifth-order polynomial having the least mean-square difference from the PREsamples, or may use a Monte Carlo technique to find the best-fit curve. Because these and other techniques for curve fitting are known, a further discussion of how the curve fitter  finds the best-fit curve is omitted for brevity.","Next, the curve fitter  generates the third sample of PREequal to the value of the best-fit curve at t, which is the sample time corresponding to the third sample of PRE, and the display  displays the third sample of PREalong with the corresponding tsample of R. The curve fitter  may also generate the first and second samples of PREfrom this same best-fit curve, although once the third sample of PREis generated, it may be unnecessary to display the first and second samples of PREto the pilot via the display . But for purposes of illustration, these first three samples of PREare plotted in  at sample times t, t, and t, respectively (like the plot of , the plot of  has not been time shifted to show the latency introduced by the filter  and curve fitter ).","Then, in response to receiving the fourth sample (14) of PRE, the curve fitter  finds a second fifth-order polynomial that best fits the first four samples (13 14 14 14) of PRE. The second polynomial may or may not be the same as the first polynomial previously calculated as the best fit for the first three samples of PRE.","Next, the curve fitter  generates the fourth sample of PREequal to the value of the second polynomial at t, which is the sample time corresponding to the fourth sample of PRE, and the display  displays the fourth sample of PREalong with the corresponding tsample of R. The fourth sample of PREis plotted in  at time t.","Because the curve fitter  has already generated the first, second, and third samples of PREfrom the first polynomial, and these samples have already been displayed to the pilot on the display , there is typically no need to update these first three samples using the second polynomial.","Therefore,  is not necessarily a plot of a single curve calculated by the curve fitter , but may instead be a plot of the PREsamples generated from many curves calculated by the curve fitter, up to one curve for each sample.","Then, in response to receiving the fifth sample (13) of PRE, the curve fitter  finds a third fifth-order polynomial that best fits the first five samples (13 14 14 14 13) of PRE. The third polynomial may or may not be the same as one of the previously calculated first and second polynomials.","Next, the curve fitter  generates the fifth sample of PREequal to the value of the third polynomial at t, which is the sample time corresponding to the fifth sample of PRE, and the display  displays the fifth sample of PREalong with the corresponding tsample of R. The fifth sample of PREis plotted in  at time t.","Then, in response to receiving the sixth sample (12) of PRE, the curve fitter  finds a fourth fifth-order polynomial that best fits the first six samples (13 14 14 14 13 12) of PRE. The fourth polynomial may or may not be the same as one of the previously calculated first, second, and third polynomials.","Next, the curve fitter  generates the sixth sample of PREequal to the value of the fourth polynomial at t, which is the sample time corresponding to the sixth sample of PRE, and the display  displays the sixth sample of PREalong with the corresponding tsample of R. The sixth sample of PREis plotted in  at time t.","Then, in response to receiving the seventh sample (9) of PRE, the curve fitter  finds a fifth fifth-order polynomial that best fits the first seven samples (13 14 14 14 13 12 9) of PRE. The fifth polynomial may or may not be the same as one of the previously calculated first, second, third, and fourth polynomials.","Next, the curve fitter  generates the seventh sample of PREequal to the value of the fifth polynomial at t, which is the sample time corresponding to the seventh sample of PRE, and the display  displays the seventh sample of PREalong with the corresponding tsample of R. The seventh sample of PREis plotted in  at time t.","The curve fitter  continues operating in this manner to generate the eighth and subsequent samples of PREuntil the remaining PREsamples (from the eighth sample onward) are fit to a respective curve.","Still referring to , one can see that the samples PREoscillate even less than the PREsamples of , and are significantly smoother than the PREsamples. Consequently, the PREsamples may allow the pilot to make a decision regarding the target more quickly and with more confidence than if the pilot were relying on the PRE, samples, or even if the pilot were relying on the PREsamples. For example, even if the pilot waits until the value of the PREsamples are below 10%, he would have to wait only about seven seconds before he is able to begin making a decision regarding the target.","Referring to , further alternate embodiments of the target system  are contemplated. For example, although described as generating samples of R, PRE, PRE, and PREevery second, the estimator , calculator , filter , and curve fitter  may respectively generate samples of these quantities at other intervals. Furthermore, the target system  may not display every set of samples on the display . For example, the system  may generate samples of Rand PREevery millisecond, but may display samples of Rand PREon the display  only once per second so that the pilot has time to discern and comprehend the samples, and to determine a range window of a target from the samples. Moreover, although described as including two stages, the quantity smoother  may include more or fewer than two stages. For example, the smoother  may include only the first stage  with the filter , and provide the samples PREdirectly to the display .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 6-8","FIG. 4"],"sub":"Raw ","b":["46","48"]},"From the foregoing it will be appreciated that, although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration, various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Furthermore, where an alternative is disclosed for a particular embodiment, this alternative may also apply to other embodiments even if not specifically stated."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-2","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"sub":["Raw","Raw "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"sub":"Raw"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"sub":"Raw"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 6-8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
