---
title: Search queries with shifting intent
abstract: Techniques and systems are disclosed for returning temporally-aware results from an Internet-based search query. To determine if a query is temporally-based one or more query features are collected and input into a trained classifier, yielding a temporal classification for the query. Further, if a query is classified as temporal, the query results are shifted by determining an alternate set of results for the query, and returning one or more alternate results to one or more users. Based on user interactions with the one or more alternate results, the classifier can be updated, for example, by changing the query to a non-temporal query if the user interactions identify it as such.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08219539&OS=08219539&RS=08219539
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08219539
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090407
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Internet-based searches are typically performed using an online search engine that is associated with a website. Often, results returned for a query can include, among other things, links to web-pages that comprise elements of the query, query suggestions for formulating a query, and links to other online items that may comprise the query, such as videos, photos, etc.","Search engines that provide Internet-based searching typically utilize web-crawlers that continually crawl through Internet-based content and store information relating to the content that has been crawled. In this way, for example, a search engine can quickly return web-links or suggestions from the data stored from their web-crawling. Therefore, most Internet-based searching is limited to information that has been identified by a search engine's associated web-crawler.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","A meaning of an Internet-based search query can shift over time, thereby being temporal in nature. For example, a meaning of the query \u201cindependence Day\u201d can mean United States Independence Day around July 4, Indian Independence Day around August 15, and may even mean the movie of that title around the time of its release. Typically, most search engines return a same set of results for a query each time the query is posed to the engine. These static-type query returns are due in part to a presence of a ranking system that is relatively static. Those engines that rank search results based merely on overall popularity may be temporally blind when a meaning of a query shifts quickly or unexpectedly.","A query that is experiencing a shift in semantic meaning may be called a temporal query. For example, where a query for coast guard may be quite common when users search for information about the Coast Guard, if a dramatic and noteworthy Coast Guard rescue recently took place, users querying \u201ccoast guard\u201d may be expecting to see results that discuss the recent events. In this example, the query \u201ccoast guard\u201d is a temporal query, as the semantic meaning may have suddenly changed for many users.","Accordingly, techniques and systems are disclosed herein for returning temporally-aware results from an Internet-based search query; adapting search results (e.g., web-links to news articles, query suggestions, websites, etc.) to temporal queries. These techniques and systems can adapt to temporal results quickly (e.g., within minutes of a temporal shift); can provide accurate temporally related results; can be incorporated to be automatic instead of having a person identify temporal queries; can be applied generally instead of tracking specific queries; and can be exploratory, finding alternate and sometimes unexpected results to temporal queries.","In one embodiment, determining if a query is temporally-based (or not) comprises collecting one or more features of the query, for example, where query features may include user interactions and query characteristics. In this embodiment, the query features can be input into a trained classifier, for example, which has been trained to recognize temporal queries. Further, if a query is classified as temporal, the returned results for the query can be shifted, which can comprise determining an alternate set of results for the query, for example, using a search engine, and returning one or more alternate results to one or more users. Based on user interactions with the one or more alternate results, the classifier can be updated, for example, by changing the query to a non-temporal query if the user interactions identify it as such.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","A method may be devised that can help return results from a query that accommodate a temporal nature of some queries.  is a flow chart diagram of an exemplary method  for returning temporally-aware results from an Internet-based search query. The exemplary method  begins at  and involves determining if a query is temporally-based, at . For example, results returned when a query is posed may include, among other things, Internet search results and query suggestions. Further, a query may be expected to return different results at different times, indicating its temporal nature.","At , determining if a query is temporally-based comprises collecting one of more features of the query. A query may comprise various features that can be used to determine whether the query is temporal, for example.  is one exemplary embodiment  of a portion of a method, where it can be determined whether a query is temporally-based. In this exemplary embodiment , collecting one of more feature of the query  can comprise determining how a user interacts with a first set of results returned for the query, at . For example, after the query is posed in a search engine, one can monitor how a user interacts with returned results to identify some features of the query.","At , a user interaction, used as query feature, can comprise a click-through rate on returned results. A click-through rate can be a rate at which users click on (interact with) the results of the query, for example. In one embodiment, the click-through rate can be limited to results from a first set of returned results (e.g., top search results resulting in a \u201ctop click-through rate). For example, a query for \u201cIndependence Day\u201d may be expected to return different results to different people at different times of a year (e.g., July 4in the USA, August 15in India, movie release, etc.). Identifying a click-through rate on returned results may indicate whether the return results are meeting a user's expectations for the query, for example.","At , another user interaction, used as query feature, may include an abandonment rate, comprising a rate that a query is abandoned after results are returned. For example, if the query \u201cIndependence Day\u201d merely returns results for the 4of July, a user expecting to see results about the movie of the same title may abandon their search, for example, frustrated by their query. An abandonment rate may indicate that a temporal shift has occurred in the meaning of the query, for example, around a time of the movie release. Further, at , a user may switch search engines to pose the same query, for example. Therefore a search engine switch rate, comprising a rate that a user switches to an alternate search engine after results are returned, may be an indication of a temporal shift in the query.","At , another user interaction, used as query feature, may include a reformulation rate, comprising a rate at which a user does not interact with returned results and subsequently initiates an alternate query. Instead of abandoning their query, or switching search engines, a user may reformulate the query (e.g., write the query in a different way), for example. In this example, a user may change \u201cIndependence Day\u201d to \u201cIndependence Day the movie,\u201d which can indicate that a temporal shift has occurred in the meaning of the query (e.g., from 4of July to the movie around the time of the movie release).","In exemplary embodiment , at , collecting one of more feature of the query  can comprise determining characteristics of the query. In one embodiment, a query characteristic can include a frequency rate comprising a rate that the query is posed, at . For example, a search engine may track that a query for \u201cIndependence Day\u201d is increasing in frequency around the beginning of August. In this example, this may indicate a temporal shift in an intent for the query from the United State's Independence Day in July to India's Independence Day on August 15.","Further, at , a query characteristic can include a mention rate, comprising a rate that the query is described in reference articles. For example, Internet-based news article, (micro)blogs, etc can be searched for the query and a rate that the query is mentioned in these references can be tracked. In this example, an increase in query mentions may indicate a temporal shift in the meaning of the query, for example, around India's Independence Day. Further, in one embodiment, Internet-based encyclopedias (e.g., Wikipedia\u00ae) may be used to indicate whether a temporal shift has occurred for a query. At , if an article comprising the query in an online encyclopedia has been recently updated it may be used as a feature to indicate a temporal query.","In exemplary embodiment , at , collecting one or more feature of the query  can comprise determining statistical-based characteristics of burstiness, at , and\/or geographical location, at , for a query. In one embodiment, burstiness of user interactions with a first set of results returned for the query and characteristics of the query can comprise a sharp increase in the user interactions described in  above. For example, a sharp increase in a click-through rate, abandonment, or reformulation of a query may indicate that a meaning for the query has shifted temporally.","Further, a geographical location  for posed queries can be monitored. In one embodiment, an increase in a particular query for a particular geographical location may indicate a shift in meaning for that query. For example, a query for \u201cearthquake\u201d may be relatively common; however, if there were a spike in the rate of the query in a particular geographic location it may indicate that an earthquake has occurred in the vicinity. In this embodiment , an average age of a document returned by a query search, and\/or chosen by a user (e.g., clicked on) may be utilized as a query feature, at . Further, a percentage of a recent number of queries (K number of queries) that have been posed to a search engine, which are similar (e.g., when aggregated into query groups) to the current query can be used as a query feature. Additionally, a percentage of a recent number of news-based queries (K number of queries) that have been posed to a search engine, which are similar to the current query can also be used as a query feature. As an example, one may look at the last one million queries that were posed to a search engine and find what percentage of these queries were similar to (e.g., in a same query-type group as) the current query.","It will be appreciated that, while the above embodiments describe particular query features that can be used to help determine whether a query is temporal (or not), the techniques and systems described herein are not limited to these examples. Those skilled in the art may devise alternate query features that can be collected and used to determine a temporal nature of the query. For example, there are many and varied statistics that can be used to track how queries are posed and interacted with, which may be used as query features.","Turning back to , at  in the exemplary method , the one or more query features are input into a trained classifier, and the query is classified is temporally-based (or not) by the classifier. For example, in one embodiment, an \u201coff-the-shelf\u201d baseline machine learning algorithm may be used as a query classifier. In this embodiment, the classifier can be initially trained with a set of labeled queries indicating temporally positive (temporal) and temporally negative (non-temporal) queries, comprising query features. In this way, for example, the classifier can be trained to identify temporal queries using query features. In this embodiment, the features of the query in question can be input to the trained classifier to determine if the query is temporal (or not).","In an alternate embodiment, as shown in  at , feature space may be utilized for query classification. For example, a multi-dimensional representation of query features can be used to describe specific queries relative to their features. At , a query's features may be run through a function that computes corresponding coordinates in the feature space as a vector of coordinates.  is a graphical illustration of an example feature space representation , comprising three-axes , , and . In this embodiment , the axes , , and  may represent three different query features that can be used to mark coordinates of a vector comprising the three query features.","For example, three features collected for a query can be represented as a vector of coordinates in feature space. In this example, the vector of coordinates for the query can be calculated by running them through a function that computes corresponding feature space coordinates for a query, using the three axes , , and . The example feature space representation  illustrates a hyper-plane  that can be used to graphically represent a separation of the feature space into temporal  and non-temporal  regions.","At  in the exemplary embodiment , if the resulting vector of coordinates for the query, as determined by a classification function is within a temporally based query region of the feature space, the query can be classified and labeled as temporal . Further, at , if the vector of coordinates for the query is within a non-temporally based query region of the feature space, the query can be classified and labeled as non-temporal .","Turning back to  again, at  of the exemplary method , if the query is classified as temporally-based, results for the query are shifted. At , shifting results for the query comprises determining an alternate set of results for the query. As described above, a query may have different meanings to different users at different times. In one embodiment, a query may comprise one word or a series of words aggregated to describe a common theme, for example.","As an example, where a common result for the query \u201cearthquake\u201d may return results related to earthquake research centers, basic earthquake information, and lists of important earthquakes, alternate results may comprise current news about an earthquake that just occurred, the movie earthquake, earthquake the band, an earthquake drink, and others. In one embodiment, a search engine may be used to identify alternate results for the query as a second set of results, for example, by filtering out terms related to a first set of results initially returned for the query. In this embodiment, the second set of results can have different characteristics than the first set of results, for example, because characteristic terms related to the first set of results can be filtered out of the second set.","At  of the exemplary method , one or more alternate results from the set of alternate results are returned to one or more users. In one embodiment, in order to determine if the query is actually temporal, for example, a good indicator may be whether a user selects alternate results when they are shown to the user. In this example, selecting alternate results may indicate that the first set of results were not what the user was looking for, as a meaning of their query had changed to the selected alternate result.","In another embodiment, in order to determine whether the query is actually temporally-based, and\/or to gather a larger sampling of desired alternate results, respective alternate results can be shown to multiple users, multiple times. In this embodiment, for example, a click-through rate of the second set comprising alternate results can be determined. Further, in this embodiment, those alternate results having a higher selection rate (click-through rate) by users can be compared with a number of times the alternate rates have been shown to users to determine desired alternate results.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502"]},"At , respective alternate results  in the set can be returned to a different user . In this example , a first result  from the set is returned to a first user , a second result  to a second user  and so-on. At , user interactions with the returned results  can be monitored to determine, for example, click-through rates  for the respective results .","At , the alternate results can be adjusted, for example, a new set or an order of the results can be selected, according to how the users interacted with the initial results  returned to the users . The updated alternate results can be returned to the users, at , and user interactions with these results can be monitored at . The loop back  to return updated alternate results can continue, for example, until a desired set of updated alternate results  is selected.","In one embodiment, a multi-armed bandit type algorithm may be utilized to determine the desired updated alternate results for a query. For example, let xdenote an average number of click-throughs on a returned result (j), ndenote a number of times j has been shown to a user, and n denote a number of times the query has been posed. In this example, returned results j can be explored by x+sqrt((2 ln n)\/n) until a desired result is established within a desired confidence. In this way, in this example, one or more desired updated alternate results  can be determined for the query.","In an alternate embodiment, instead of using a multi-armed bandit type algorithm to select a desired alternate result, a returned result can be selected that yields a desired (e.g., highest) number of clicks at the time of selection. For example, if a first alternate result  is clicked on by users  more often that the other results , the updated alternate results  may merely comprise the first alternate result.","Returning again to , at  in the exemplary method , the classification of queries is updated, based on the one or more users' interactions with the one or more alternate results. In one embodiment, if user interactions with the alternate results indicate that the query is temporal, for example, the initial classification of the query was accurate and the query classification may not need to be updated. However, in this embodiment, if user interactions with the alternate results indicate that query is not temporal, for example, the initial classification of the query was incorrect and the query classification may need to be updated to reflect a non-temporal nature for the query.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","516","518"]},"In this embodiment , at , if a distribution of a click-through rate  for the second set of returned results is unchanged from the first set of returned results, within a desired threshold margin, the query is determined to be non-temporal, at . For example, if initial results returned for a query, such as web-page links returned for a query search using a search engine, yielded no click-throughs, and the alternate set of results yields no click-throughs, the query may not be temporally-based merely bad results or a bad query. However, if the click-through rates differ enough that the difference is outside of a desired threshold margin (e.g., 5% difference), the alternate results may be returned to users, at .","At , if the alternate set of results is changed to a set of one or more results that is similar to the first set of one or more results returned by the search engine, within a desired threshold margin, the query is determined to be non-temporal, at . For example, in the , in one embodiment, one or more desired alternate results can be determined based on user interactions with returned alternate results. In this embodiment, the updated alternate result may be changed back to a similar result returned for the initial query, for example, where alternate results are repeatedly returned to users without additional user interactions. In this example, the query would be considered non-temporal if the updated alternate results  end up being similar to the first set returned for the query. However, if the updated alternate results differ enough that the difference is outside of a desired threshold margin, the alternate results may be returned to users, at .","At , if the query is determined to be non-temporal, updating the query classification comprises changing a label for the query represented as a vector of coordinates in feature space (e.g., as described in , , at ) to non-temporal. In one embodiment, queries are initially assumed to be temporal, and labeled as such in the feature space, such as  in the exemplary embodiment  of . However, if a query is found to be non-temporal, the label of the vector can be changed to non-temporal . Further, because the vector is changed to non-temporal, a margin  that separates temporal space from non-temporal space may need to be adjusted so that the recently changed vector is included in the non-temporal space of the feature space.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","410","412","412","408","406","402","412","402","412"]},"Returning to , having updated the classification, the exemplary method  ends at .","In one aspect, the query classification can be updated by running queries through a feature space function and labeling vectors representing queries in feature space. As an example, by updating the trained classifier used to determine whether a query is temporal (e.g., essentially training the classifier further), the accuracy of the classifier can improve. For example, a set of features can be collected for a query, such as a click-through rate, abandonment rate, reformulation rate, frequency rate, and burstiness rate. In this example, the features can be represented as coordinates of a vector, for example, in the exemplary feature space  of . Further, if the vector falls within margin  describing the non-temporal area of the feature space, the query can be classified as non-temporal. Additionally, an area that comprises a margin of error  can be established around the margin  in order to mitigate a false negative classification of a query (e.g., classifying a query as non-temporal when it is actually temporal).","A system may be devised that can determine whether a query is temporally-based, such as a query that is associated with something having time relevance (e.g., news about an earthquake that just occurred), or a query whose meaning may have changed over time (e.g., Independence Day).  is a component block diagram of an exemplary system  for returning temporally-aware results from an Internet-based search query.","The exemplary system  comprises a feature collector  that is configured to collect features of an Internet-based search query . For example, a user may pose a query in a search engine  on a website . The feature collector  can retrieve query features , for example, based on information collected by the search engine . Query features  can be sent to a query classifier , operably coupled to the feature collector , which is configured to classify whether a query is temporal based on features provided by the feature collector .","In one embodiment, as illustrated in the exemplary portion of a system  for calculating a function of the query features in feature space and updating labels, in , the query classifier  can send query feature information to a feature space function component . In this exemplary embodiment , the feature space function component  is operably coupled to the query classifier , and is configured to calculate a vector of coordinates  for features of the query in feature space , and label the calculated vector of coordinates  for the query according to its location in the feature space . In one embodiment, the temporal nature determination for the query by the query classifier  determines a label for its corresponding vector  by using a feature space function to compute a feature vector for the query and determine whether the feature vector lies on the temporal or non-temporal side of the temporal region.","In , the exemplary system  further comprises a query results adapter  that is configured to provide alternate results  for the query  if the query classifier  determines that the query  is temporal. The query results adapter  comprises an alternate results determination component , which is configured to use the search engine  to determine a second set of results  having different characteristics than a first set of results provided by the search engine, such as results that reflect different meanings for the query. Further, the query results adapter  comprises an alternate results provider  that is configured to provide alternate results  for one or more users, such as other users of the search engine .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","708","902","756","756","902","756","756","756"]},"Further, in this embodiment , the query results adapter  comprises a query rechecker  configured to determine whether the query is temporal based on user interaction with the set of one or more alternate results. For example, the alternate results determiner  can determine a second set of results  (e.g., different than the first set of results for the query), which can be provided to one or more users. In this example, how the one or more users interact with the alternate results , such as click-through rates, may be used by the query rechecker  to determine whether the query is actually temporal. If alternate results are determined for a query, for example, the query is considered temporal; however, if the click-through rates are similar to the click-through rates for the first set of results, the query may actually be non-temporal.","Returning to , the exemplary system  further comprises a query classifier updating component  that is configured to update the query classifier  to incorporate results from one or more users' interactions with the alternate results  for a query . In one embodiment, as shown in the exemplary embodiment  of , the query classifier updating component  can be coupled with a label updater . The label updater  can be configured to update the label of the query vector  in feature space based on results from the query classifier updating component . Further, it may generate separate temporally-based query regions and a non-temporally based query regions in the feature space  for respective queries.","For example, if a query is determined to be non-temporal, this information can be passed to the label updater . In this example, the label updater  can change the label of the vector  for the query in feature space  from temporal to non-temporal. Further, in one embodiment, a border that separates the non-temporal from temporal areas of the features space, such as shown in ,  and , , can be adjusted to incorporate the label that was changed. For example, in  and , if a temporal vector  or  is changed to a non-temporal vector  or , its location does not change, but the margin  or  will be moved to include the changed vector in the non-temporal area of the feature space.","In another embodiment, the separation between the non-temporal from the temporal areas comprises a border. In this embodiment, the border area can describe a hyper plane that separates the features space into half space, as in , . Further, the border area can describe a convex hull in the feature space, such as , . Additionally, the border area can describe a hyper-rectangle separating the feature space. For example, a hyper rectangle may comprise a rectangular area that completely encompasses respective non-temporal vectors (e.g., in a smallest rectangle) in the feature space.","In another embodiment, a border in feature space can comprise a delta region that mitigates false negative determinations for queries. In this embodiment, for example, the delta region may be a desired error margin that incorporates potential vectors that may actually be non-temporal, thereby mitigating a possibility that a vector falling within this delta region is labeled as temporal, when it is actually non-temporal. In , , an exemplary delta region is described at .","Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer-readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium  (e.g., a CD-R, DVD-R, or a platter of a hard disk drive), on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment , the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to perform a method, such as the exemplary method  of , for example. In another such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to implement a system, such as the exemplary system  of , for example. Many such computer-readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1110","1112","1112","1116","1118","1118","1114"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
