---
title: Self-etching cementitious substrate coating composition
abstract: Coating compositions for cementitious substrates may be made from a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt capable of etching or otherwise reacting with the surface of the substrate to provide improved coating adhesion. The silane may be present as a silane coupling agent distinct from the multistage latex polymer, or may be present as silane functionality on the multistage latex polymer. The coating compositions adhere well to cementitious substrates and have a self-etching capability which improves coating adhesion, especially near edges and corners.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09175187&OS=09175187&RS=09175187
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 09175187
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090813
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Crush Resistance","Hot Tire Test Procedure","Wet Adhesion and Early Water Resistance","Pull-Off Strength","EXAMPLES","Example 1","Multistage Latex Polymer","Example 2","Multistage Latex Polymer and Epoxy-Functional Silane","Example 3","Vinyl Silane-Containing Multistage Latex Polymer","Example 4","Multistage Latex Polymer and Amino-Functional silane","Example 5","Epoxy Silane-Containing Multistage Latex Polymer","Example 6","Base Coating Resin","Examples 7a through 7d","Examples 8a and 8b","Coating Compositions","Examples 9a through 9d","Examples 10a through 10d","Examples 11a through 11d","Examples 12a through 12d","Example 13","Example 14"],"p":["This application is a U.S. national stage entry under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7371 of International Application No. PCT\/US2009\/053789 filed Aug. 13, 2009 and published as WO 2010\/019825 A2, which in turn claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/089,446 filed Aug. 15, 2008, both entitled SELF-ETCHING CEMENTITIOUS SUBSTRATE COATING COMPOSITION.","Hard, abrasion resistant coatings are used over a variety of substrates, including cement, wood, and porous substrates. Particularly demanding substrates include horizontal substrates such as sidewalks, floor tiles, cement garage floors and decks. Unfortunately, many of the commercially available coatings in use today for these substrates suffer from problems such as poor adhesion, or poor water resistance (e.g., \u201cblushing\u201d).","Cement and fiber cement substrates have an additional issue, in that they typically require hard, abrasion resistant coatings with excellent adhesion. In the past, this has been addressed by using higher-Tg polymer systems. Unfortunately, volatile organic content (VOC) solvents generally must be used to achieve proper coalescence of higher-Tg polymers. Consequently, there is an unmet need to develop acceptable low VOC aqueous based coatings that are hard, blush resistant, abrasion resistant and offer excellent adhesion to cement and fiber cement substrates.","Some coatings also adhere poorly near edges and corners of cement and fiber cement substrates. The applied coating may initially appear to be properly adhered but may later delaminate or otherwise prematurely fail.","The present invention provides in one aspect aqueous coating compositions comprising a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt capable of etching or otherwise reacting with the surface of a cementitious substrate so as to provide improved coating adhesion. The multistage latex polymer includes two or more polymer stages having different Tg values. The silane may be present as a silane coupling agent distinct from the multistage latex polymer, or may be present as silane functionality on the multistage latex polymer. The disclosed coating compositions adhere well to cementitious substrates and have a self-etching or other reactive capability which improves coating adhesion, especially near edges and corners.","In another aspect, the invention provides a method for preparing a coated article, which method comprises providing a cementitious substrate, coating at least a portion of the substrate with an aqueous coating composition comprising a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt, and allowing the coating composition to harden.","In yet another aspect, the present invention provides coated articles comprising a cementitious substrate having at least one major surface on which is coated a layer comprising an aqueous coating composition comprising a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt.","The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows exemplifies certain illustrative embodiments. In several places throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.","The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and this specification. Other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.","The recitation of a numerical range using endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range (e.g., 1 to 5 includes 1, 1.5, 2, 2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, etc.).","The terms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201cthe,\u201d \u201cat least one,\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d are used interchangeably. Thus, for example, a coating composition that contains \u201can\u201d additive means that the coating composition includes \u201cone or more\u201d additives.","The terms \u201cboard\u201d or \u201cfiberboard\u201d refer to a generally planar component suitable for attachment to a building exterior surface, including lap siding, vertical siding, soffit panels, trim boards, shingle replicas, stone replicas and stucco replicas.","The term \u201ccementitious\u201d refers to a substrate or material that comprises cement and has the properties or characteristics of cement, or that comprises a chemical precipitate, preferably of carbonates, having the characteristics of cement. Examples of cementitious substrates and materials include cement, burnished cement, concrete, polished concrete and cement fiberboard, and examples of places or applications where cementitious substrates may be employed include floors (e.g., garage floors), tiles (e.g., floor tiles), decks, boards and panels (e.g., fiber cement boards), and the like.","The term \u201ccomprises\u201d and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus, a composition comprising an ethylenically unsaturated compound means that the composition includes one or more ethylenically unsaturated compounds.","The term \u201ccoupling agent\u201d refers to a composition that improves adhesion between a coating composition and a substrate on which a layer of the coating composition has been applied and dried or otherwise hardened.","The terms \u201cgroup\u201d and \u201cmoiety\u201d are used to differentiate between chemical species that allow for substitution or that may be substituted and those that do not allow substitution or that may not be so substituted. Thus, when the term \u201cgroup\u201d is used to describe a chemical substituent, the described chemical material includes substituted and unsubstituted groups, where the substituent groups may include O, N, Si, or S atoms, for example, in the chain (e.g., an alkoxy group) as well as carbonyl groups and other substituent groups. The term \u201corganic group\u201d thus refers to a hydrocarbon (e.g., hydrocarbyl) group with optional elements other than carbon and hydrogen in the chain, such as oxygen, nitrogen, silicon or sulfur. Representative organic groups include aliphatic groups, cyclic groups, and combinations of aliphatic and cyclic groups (e.g., alkaryl or aralkyl groups). The term \u201caliphatic group\u201d refers to a saturated or unsaturated linear or branched organic group. For example, this term is used to encompass alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups. The term \u201calkyl group\u201d refers not only to pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents, such as methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, t-butyl, heptyl, dodecyl, octadecyl, amyl, 2-ethylhexyl, and the like, but also to substituted alkyl groups having substituents known in the art, such as hydroxy, alkoxy, alkylsulfonyl, halo, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, and the like. The term \u201calkenyl group\u201d refers to an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon-carbon double bonds and likewise may have substituents known in the art. Non-limiting examples of alkenyl groups include groups such as vinyl, 1-propenyl, 2-propenyl, 1,3-butadienyl, 1-butenyl, 2-butenyl, 1-pentenyl, 2-pentenyl, 1-hexenyl, 2-hexenyl, heptenyl, octenyl and the like. The term \u201calkynyl group\u201d refers to an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon-carbon triple bonds and likewise may have substituents known in the art. Non-limiting examples of alkynyl groups include ethynyl, 1-propynyl, 2-propynyl, 1-butynyl, 2-butynyl, 3-butynyl, 1-pentynyl, 2-pentynyl, 1-hexynyl, 2-hexynyl, heptynyl, octynyl and the like. The term \u201ccyclic group\u201d refers to a closed ring hydrocarbon group that can be classified as an alicyclic group, aromatic group (aryl group), or heterocyclic group. The term \u201calicyclic group\u201d refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon group having properties resembling those of aliphatic groups. Non-limiting examples of alicyclic groups include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl and the like. The terms \u201caromatic group\u201d or \u201caryl group\u201d refer to a mono- or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon group including phenyl or naphthyl groups. The term \u201cheterocyclic group\u201d refers to a closed ring hydrocarbon group in which one or more of the atoms in the ring is an element other than carbon (e.g., nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, etc.). When the term \u201cmoiety\u201d is used to describe a chemical compound or substituent, only the unsubstituted chemical material is intended to be included. Thus, the phrase \u201chydrocarbyl moiety\u201d refers to unsubstituted organic moieties containing only hydrogen and carbon, and the phrase \u201calkyl moiety\u201d refers to pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, t-butyl, and the like.","A \u201clatex\u201d polymer means a dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles formed in the presence of water and one or more secondary dispersing or emulsifying agents (e.g., a surfactant, alkali-soluble polymer or mixtures thereof) whose presence is required to form the dispersion or emulsion. The secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent is typically separate from the polymer after polymer formation. In some embodiments a reactive dispersing or emulsifying agent may become part of the polymer particles as they are formed.","The phrase \u201clow VOC\u201d when used with respect to a liquid coating composition means that the coating composition contains less than about 10 weight % volatile organic compounds, more preferably less than about 7% volatile organic compounds, and most preferably less than about 4% volatile organic compounds based upon the total liquid coating composition weight.","The term \u201c(meth)acrylic acid\u201d includes either or both of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, and the term \u201c(meth)acrylate\u201d includes either or both of an acrylate and a methacrylate.","The term \u201cmultistage\u201d when used with respect to a latex polymer means the polymer was made using discrete charges of one or more monomers or was made using a continuously-varied charge of two or more monomers. Usually a multistage latex will not exhibit a single Tg inflection point as measured using DSC. For example, a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using discrete charges of one or more monomers may exhibit two or more Tg inflection points. Also, a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using a continuously-varied charge of two or more monomers may exhibit no Tg inflection points. By way of further explanation, a DSC curve for a single stage latex made using a single monomer charge or a non-varying charge of two monomers may exhibit only a single Tg inflection point. Occasionally when only one Tg inflection point is observed, it may be difficult to determine whether the latex represents a multistage latex. In such cases a lower Tg inflection point may sometimes be detected on closer inspection, or the synthetic scheme used to make the latex may be examined to determine whether or not a multistage latex would be expected to be produced.","The terms \u201cpreferred\u201d and \u201cpreferably\u201d refer to embodiments which may afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other embodiments may also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore, the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful, and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the invention.","The terms \u201ctopcoat\u201d or \u201cfinal topcoat\u201d refer to a coating composition which when dried or otherwise hardened provides a decorative or protective outermost finish layer on a substrate, e.g., a fiber cement board attached to a building exterior. By way of further explanation, such final topcoats include paints, stains or sealers capable of withstanding extended outdoor exposure (e.g., exposure equivalent to one year of vertical south-facing Florida sunlight) without visually objectionable deterioration, but do not include primers that would not withstand extended outdoor exposure if left uncoated, viz., without a topcoat.","Referring to , a coated article  of the present invention is shown in schematic cross-sectional view. Article  includes a cement fiberboard substrate  with a first major surface . Substrate  typically is quite heavy and may for example have a density of about 1 to about 1.6 g\/cmor more. Article  also includes at least one edge such as edge  between first major surface  and a side surface of article  such as side surface . It will be understood by persons having ordinary skill in the art that edge  may have a sharp or somewhat rounded configuration but will in any event represent a transition region of relatively high curvature between major surface  and side surface . Persons having ordinary skill in the art will understand that article  may have elongated and generally parallel side surfaces intersected by shorter end surfaces, and that these side and end surfaces may be largely hidden when article  is installed, e.g., on a building. The first major surface  of substrate  may be embossed with small peaks or ridges  and valleys , e.g., so as to resemble roughsawn wood. Major surface  may have a variety of other surface configurations, and may resemble a variety of building materials other than roughsawn wood. The differences in height between peaks  and valleys  in major surface  typically are much greater than those shown in ; the thicknesses of layer  and topcoat  have been magnified in  for emphasis. The typical actual differences in height between peaks  and valleys  in major surface  may for example be about 1 to about 5 mm. An optional further layer or layers  (which may for example be a sealer, primer or layers of both sealer and primer) may lie atop surface . Layer  can provide a firmly-adhered base layer upon which one or more firmly-adhered layers of topcoat  may be formed, and may hide mottling or other irregularities (arising in some instances when article  is dried in a factory) which may otherwise be visible on surface . If a primer, layer  may include a high Pigment Volume Concentration (PVC), e.g., about 45% or more. Layer  is however not weather-resistant or decorative and is not designed or intended to serve as a final topcoat. Topcoat  desirably is both decorative and weather-resistant, and may be applied to article  at the location where article  is manufactured or after article  has been attached to a building or other surface. Topcoat  desirably provides a crush-resistant surface which withstands the forces that may be imparted to article  during warehousing and shipping operations such as long-term storage and transporting of prefinished stacked cementboard to a jobsite. Topcoat  thus may provide reduced visual coating damage and, consequently, less need for touch-up repairs or recoating after article  has been attached to a building.","It can be difficult to obtain adequate adhesion of coatings such as layer  or topcoat  to edge  or to corners (not shown in ) where two edges such as edge  meet. This difficulty can be aggravated when applying coatings to sawn fiber cement products, especially if the sawing process has burnished the product. The disclosed coating composition may provide appreciably improved adhesion at such burnished regions and at edges and corners proximate the burnished regions. The disclosed coating composition may also provide improved coating adhesion on the major surface or sides of a cement fiberboard substrate. In the disclosed method, at least one edge such as edge  (and desirably all such edges, any corners where such edges meet, and yet more desirably the sides and one or both major faces) of the cement fiberboard substrate such as substrate  is coated with the disclosed coating composition. The disclosed coating compositions may conveniently be applied to substrate  at the location where article  is manufactured or may be applied after article  has been attached to a building or other surface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["24","10","10","14","14","22","22","22","22","26","22","22","10"],"i":["a","b ","a","b ","a","b","a","b ","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","32","24","24","34","32","35","36","37","32","35","37","32","32"],"i":["a ","h"]},"The disclosed compositions may be applied to a variety of substrates, including cement, cement tiles, and fiber cement substrates. The composition may also be applied to wood and wood substitutes. The compositions are particularly useful for coating cementitious substrates including cement floors and fiber cement articles. A variety of fiber cement substrates may be employed. Fiber cement substrates typically are composites made from cement and filler. Exemplary fillers include wood, fiberglass, polymers or mixtures thereof. The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion, the Hatschek method, or other methods known in the art. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005\/0208285 A1; Australian Patent Application No. 2005100347; International Patent Application No. WO 01\/68547 A1; International Patent Application No. WO 98\/45222 A1; U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2006\/0288909 A1; and Australian Patent Application No. 198060655 A1. Fiber cement composites can include unprimed fiber cement substrates and commercially available pre-primed or pre-painted fiber cement substrates which may be topcoated as described below. Non-limiting examples of such substrates include siding products, boards and the like, for uses including fencing, roofing, flooring, decking, wall boards, shower boards, lap siding, vertical siding, soffit panels, trim boards, shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas. One or both major surfaces of the substrate may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product, or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron- or submicron-scale cross-sectional dimensions.","A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example, several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo, Calif., including those sold as HARDIEHOME\u2122 siding, HARDIPANEL\u2122 vertical siding, HARDIPLANK\u2122 lap siding, HARDIESOFFI\u2122 panels, HARDITRIM\u2122 planks and HARDISHINGLE\u2122 siding. These products are available with an extended warranty, and are said to resist moisture damage, to require only low maintenance, to not crack, rot or delaminate, to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity, rain, snow, salt air and termites, to be non-combustible, and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL\u2122 cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH & Co. KG of Iserlohn, Germany, CEMPLANK\u2122, CEMPANEL\u2122 and CEMTRIM\u2122 cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo, Calif.; WEATHERBOARDS\u2122 cement board products from CertainTeed Corporation of Valley Forge, Pa.; MAXITILE\u2122, MAXISHAKE\u2122 AND MAXISLATE\u2122 cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson, Calif.; BRESTONE\u2122, CINDERSTONE\u2122, LEDGESTONE\u2122, NEWPORT BRICK\u2122, SIERRA PREMIUM\u2122 and VINTAGE BRICK\u2122 cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A., Inc. of Norcross, Ga., EVERNICE\u2122 cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co., Ltd. of China and E BOARD\u2122 cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.","The disclosed articles may be coated on one or more surfaces with one or more layers of the coating composition. For example, in one preferred embodiment the coating composition may include an optional primer layer and one or more topcoat layers. An optional sealer layer underneath the primer layer may also be utilized, if desired. Preferably, the various layers are selected to provide a coating system that has good adhesion to the substrate and between adjacent layers of the system. If desired, the substrate may be pretreated with an aqueous solution containing a water-soluble acid or salt thereof as described in more detail below.","Exemplary optional sealer layers include acrylic latex materials. The typical function of a sealer layer is to provide one or more features such as improved adhesion, efflorescence blocking, water resistance or blocking resistance. Non-limiting sealers include unpigmented or low pigment level latex coatings having, for example, between about 5 and 20 weight % solids. An example of a commercially available sealer is OLYMPIC\u2122 FC sealer from PPG Industries.","Exemplary optional primer layers include acrylic latex or vinyl primers. The primer may include color pigments, if desired. Preferred primers have a 60-degree gloss value of less than about 15, more preferably less than about 10, and optimally less than about 5 percent. Preferred primers have a PVC greater than about 40%.","Other exemplary coating compositions for use under the coatings of this invention include those compositions and systems described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2007\/0259166 A1 and US 2007\/0259188 A1, and International Patent Application Nos. WO 2007\/090132 A1 and WO 2007\/089807 A1.","The disclosed compositions are formulated using multistage latex polymers. Further details concerning multistage latex polymers are contained in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006\/0135684 A1, US 2006\/0135686 A1, US 2007\/0110981 A1 and US 2009\/0035587 A1. The multistage latex polymer is preferably prepared through chain-growth polymerization, using two or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers. Non-limiting examples of ethylenically unsaturated monomers include monomers such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, propyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxybutyl acrylate, hydroxybutyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, 4-hydroxybutyl acrylate glycidylether, 4-hydroxybutyl methacrylate glycidylether, acrylamide, methylacrylamide, diacetone acrylamide, methylol (meth)acrylamide, acrylonitrile, styrene, a-methyl styrene, vinyl toluene, vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, allyl methacrylate, or mixtures thereof. If desired, the latex polymer may be formed using one or more acidic monomers. For example, the latex polymers may include up to about 5 weight % methacrylic acid or acrylic acid based on the total latex polymer weight (viz., the total polymer solids weight).","Exemplary multistage latex polymer compositions contain at least two polymers of different glass transition temperatures (viz., different Tg values) and may be prepared via emulsion polymerization using many of the aforementioned monomers. In one preferred embodiment, the latex will include a first polymer stage (the \u201csoft stage\u201d) having a Tg less than 30\u00b0 C., e.g., between about \u221265 and 30\u00b0 C., more preferably between about \u221215 and 25\u00b0 C., and most preferably between about \u22125 and 15\u00b0 C. and a second polymer stage (the \u201chard stage\u201d) having a Tg greater than 30\u00b0 C., e.g., between about 30 and 230\u00b0 C., more preferably between about 30 and 125\u00b0 C., and most preferably between 60 and 100\u00b0 C. The ratios of monomers in the disclosed multistage latex polymers may be adjusted to provide the desired level of \u201chard stage\u201d or \u201csoft stage\u201d segments. The Fox equation may be employed to calculate the theoretical Tg of a polymer made from two monomer feeds:\n\n1\n\n","A plurality of hard and soft stages may also be utilized. For example, in certain compositions it may be beneficial to polymerize two different low Tg soft stage monomer compositions after the hard stage polymer is formed. The first soft stage may be for example prepared with a monomer whose homopolymer has a Tg close to room temperature (e.g., 20\u00b0 C.) and the second soft stage may be prepared with monomer whose homopolymer has a Tg well below room temperature (e.g., less than 5\u00b0 C.). While not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that this second soft stage polymer assists with improving coalescence of the latex polymer particles.","It may be advantageous to use a gradient Tg latex polymer made using continuously varying monomer feeds. The resulting polymer will typically have a DSC curve that exhibits no Tg inflection points, and could be said to have an essentially infinite number of Tg stages. For example, one may start with a high Tg monomer composition and then at a certain point in the polymerization start to feed a low Tg soft stage monomer composition into the reactor with the high Tg hard stage monomer feed or into the high Tg hard stage monomer feed. The resulting multistage latex polymer will have a gradient Tg from high to low. A gradient Tg polymer may also be used in conjunction with multiple multistage Tg polymers. As an example, a high Tg monomer feed (F1) and a low Tg monomer feed (F2) can be prepared. The process would begin by adding feed F1 into the latex reactor vessel and initiating polymerization. After a certain period during the F1 feed, the feed F2 is added into F1 wherein the F2 feed rate is faster than the overall feed rate of F1+F2 into the reactor vessel. Consequently, once the F2 feed into F1 is complete, the overall Tg of the F1+F2 monomer feed blend will be a lower Tg \u201csoft stage\u201d monomer composition.","The disclosed multistage latex polymer compositions preferably include about 5 to about 95 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology, more preferably about 50 to about 90 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology, and most preferably about 60 to about 80 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology based on total latex polymer weight. The disclosed multistage latex polymer compositions preferably include about 5 to 95 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology, more preferably about 10 to about 50 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology, yet more preferably greater than 20 to about 40 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology and most preferably about 25 to about 40 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology based on total latex polymer weight.","The aforementioned multistage latex polymers are illustrative and other multistage latex polymers may be used in the practice of this invention. For example, the multistage latex polymer may be prepared with a high Tg alkali-soluble polymer hard stage. Alkali-soluble polymers may be prepared by making a polymer with acrylic or methacrylic acid or other polymerizable acid monomer (usually at greater than 7 weight %) and solubilizing the polymer by addition of ammonia or other base. Examples of suitable alkali-soluble high Tg support polymers include JONCRYL\u2122 675 and JONCRYL 678 oligomer resins, available from BASF. A low Tg soft stage monomer composition or gradient Tg composition could then be polymerized in the presence of the hard stage alkali-soluble polymer to prepare a multistage latex polymer. Another exemplary process for preparing alkali soluble supported polymers is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,962,571. For coating compositions containing acetoacetyl-functional polymers (particularly clear coatings), a nitrogen-free base (e.g., an inorganic metal base such as KOH, CaOH, NaOH, LiOH, etc.) may be beneficial. If desired, the disclosed coating compositions may also contain non-silane-functional latex polymers, including non-silane-functional multistage latex polymers.","The disclosed multistage latex polymers may be stabilized by one or more nonionic or anionic emulsifiers (e.g., surfactants), used either alone or together. Examples of suitable nonionic emulsifiers include tert-octylphenoxyethylpoly(39)-ethoxyethanol, dodecyloxypoly(10)ethoxyethanol, nonylphenoxyethyl-poly(40)ethoxyethanol, polyethylene glycol 2000 monooleate, ethoxylated castor oil, fluorinated alkyl esters and alkoxylates, polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monolaurate, sucrose monococoate, di(2-butyl)-phenoxypoly(20)ethoxyethanol, hydroxyethylcellulosepolybutyl acrylate graft copolymer, dimethyl silicone polyalkylene oxide graft copolymer, poly(ethylene oxide)poly(butyl acrylate) block copolymer, block copolymers of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide, 2,4,7,9-tetramethyl-5-decyne-4,7-diol ethoxylated with ethylene oxide, N-polyoxyethylene(20)lauramide, N-lauryl-N-polyoxyethylene(3)amine and poly(10)ethylene glycol dodecyl thioether. Examples of suitable anionic emulsifiers include sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate, potassium stearate, sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate, sodium dodecyldiphenyloxide disulfonate, nonylphenoxyethylpoly(1)ethoxyethyl sulfate ammonium salt, sodium styrene sulfonate, sodium dodecyl allyl sulfosuccinate, linseed oil fatty acid, sodium, potassium, or ammonium salts of phosphate esters of ethoxylated nonylphenol or tridecyl alcohol, sodium octoxynol-3-sulfonate, sodium cocoyl sarcocinate, sodium 1-alkoxy-2-hydroxypropyl sulfonate, sodium alpha-olefin (C-C)sulfonate, sulfates of hydroxyalkanols, tetrasodium N-(1,2-dicarboxy ethyl)-N-octadecylsulfosuccinamate, disodium N-octadecylsulfosuccinamate, disodium alkylamido polyethoxy sulfosuccinate, disodium ethoxylated nonylphenol half ester of sulfosuccinic acid and the sodium salt of tert-octylphenoxyethoxypoly(39)ethoxyethyl sulfate.","One or more water-soluble free radical initiators typically are used in the chain-growth polymerization of the multistage latex polymer. Initiators suitable for use in the coating compositions will be known to persons having ordinary skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods. Representative water-soluble free radical initiators include hydrogen peroxide; tert-butyl peroxide; alkali metal persulfates such as sodium, potassium and lithium persulfate; ammonium persulfate; and mixtures of such initiators with a reducing agent. Representative reducing agents include sulfites such as alkali metal metabisulfite, hydrosulfite, and hyposulfite; sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate; and reducing sugars such as ascorbic acid and isoascorbic acid. The amount of initiator is preferably from about 0.01 to about 3 weight %, based on the total amount of monomer. In a redox system the amount of reducing agent is preferably from 0.01 to 3 weight %, based on the total amount of monomer. The polymerization reaction can be performed at a temperature in the range of from about 10 to about 100\u00b0 C.","The disclosed coating compositions may for example include a multistage latex polymer in an amount of at least 10 weight %, at least 25 weight %, or at least 35 weight %, based on total composition solids. The multistage polymer amount is less than 100 weight %, and may for example be less than 85 weight % or less than 80 weight %, based on total composition solids.","The multistage latex polymer may include silane functionality and thereby provide both a multistage latex polymer and a silane in the disclosed coating compositions. Silane functionality may for example be provided in the multistage latex polymer by carrying out chain-growth polymerization in the presence of a silane containing a functional group capable of copolymerizing with, and which copolymerizes with, a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed. Exemplary such silanes include monomeric, dipodal and oligomeric silanes containing a vinyl, allyl, (meth)acrylate or other ethylenically unsaturated group, or a mercapto group. Representative silanes include olefinic silanes such as vinyltrialkoxysilane, vinyltriacetoxysilane, alkylvinyldialkoxysilane, hexenyltrialkoxysilane and the like, allyl silanes such as allyltrialkoxysilane, silane acrylates such as (3-acryloxypropyl)trimethoxysilane, \u03b3-methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane and the like, mercapto silanes such as 3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane, 3-mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane, s-(octanoyl)mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane, 3-thiocyanatopropyltriethoxysilane, 3-mercaptopropylmethyldimethoxysilane, bis[3-(triethoxysilyl)propyl]-tetrasulfide, and bis[3-(triethoxysilyl)propyl]-disulfide, vinyl silanes such as SILQUEST\u2122 A-151 vinyl triethoxysilane, A-171 vinyl trimethoxysilane, A-172 vinyl-tris-(2-methoxyethoxy)silane, A-174 \u03b3-methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane, and A-2171 vinyl methyldimethoxysilane (available from Momentive Performance Materials Inc), SIV9098.0 vinyltriacetoxysilane (available from Gelest Inc.) and the like. Silanes with multiple functionality may also be used such as DYNASYLAN\u2122 HYDROSIL 2929, an amino\/methacrylate functional silane (available from Degussa).","The multistage latex polymer may also be made silane-functional by combining the polymer with a silane having a functional group (e.g., an epoxy, amino or isocyanato group) and reacting the functional group with functionality (e.g., acetoacetoxy, carboxy or amino functionality) on the already-formed latex polymer. Exemplary epoxy-functional silanes include silanes having the formula:\n\nRSi(R)(OR),\n\nwhere n is 1, 2, or 3, the Rgroup contains at least one epoxy group and is alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), or phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl). Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl), or a silane oligomer, wherein each Rgroup can optionally include ORgroups or epoxy functionality. Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), or phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl). Preferred epoxy-functional silanes have an average molecular weight of from about 140 to about 500 g\/mole, more preferably from about 150 to about 300. In one preferred embodiment, the molecular weight does not exceed a maximum of about 190 to about 250, n is 1 or 2, Ris an alkyl group of 3 to 8 carbon atoms containing no more than one epoxy group, and Ris a methoxy or ethoxy group.\n","Exemplary epoxy-functional silanes include \u03b2-(3,4 epoxycyclohexyl)-ethyltrimethoxysilane (available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBM303 and from Dow Corning as Z-6043), \u03b3-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane (available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBM403 and from Dow Corning as Z-6040), \u03b3-glycidoxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane (available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBE402 and from Dow Corning as Z-6042), \u03b3-glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane (available from Dow Corning as Z-6041 and from GE Silicones as SILQUEST\u2122 A-187), \u03b3-glycidoxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane (available from Dow Corning as Z-6044), 5,6-epoxyhexyltriethoxysilane (available from Gelest, Inc. as S144675.0), hydrolyzates of the above and the like.","Exemplary amino-functional silanes include silanes having the formula:\n\nR\u2014Si(R)(OR)\n\nwhere n is 1, 2, or 3, the Rgroup contains at least one amino group and is alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), or phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl). Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), or phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl), or a silane oligomer, wherein each Rgroup can optionally include ORgroups or amino functionality. Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkenylcycloalkyl, alkenylphenyl (e.g., benzyl), or phenylalkyl (e.g., tolyl). Preferred amino-functional silanes have an average molecular weight of from about 140 to about 500, more preferably from about 150 to about 300. In one embodiment, it is preferred that the number average molecular weight not exceed a maximum of about 190 to about 250, that n is 1 or 2, Ris an alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms and containing no more than one amino group, and Ris a methoxy or ethoxy group.\n","Exemplary amino-functional silanes include trimethoxysilylpropyldiethylenetriamine, N-methylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane, aminoethylaminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane, aminoethylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane (available from Dow Corning as Z-6020), aminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane, aminopropyltrimethoxysilane, polymeric aminoalkylsilicone, aminoethylaminoethylaminopropyl-trimethoxysilane, aminopropylmethyldiethoxysilane, aminopropyltriethoxysilane, 4-aminobutyltriethoxysilane, oligomeric aminoalkylsilane, m-aminophenyltrimethoxysilane, phenylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane, 1,1,2,4-tetramethyl-1-sila-2-azacyclopentane, aminoethylaminopropyltriethoxysilane, aminoethylaminoisobutylmethyldimethoxysilane, benzylethylenediaminepropyltrimethoxysilane, hydrolyzates of the above and the like.","Acetoacetyl functionality may be incorporated into the multistage latex polymer through the use of an acetoacetyl-functional olefinic monomer such as acetoacetoxyethyl acrylate, acetoacetoxypropyl methacrylate, allyl acetoacetate, acetoacetoxybutyl methacrylate, 2,3-di(acetoacetoxy)propyl methacrylate, 2-(acetoacetoxy)ethyl methacrylate (AAEM), t-butyl acetoacetate, and the like or combinations thereof. The acetoacetyl-functional latex polymer may for example be prepared through chain-growth polymerization, using, for example AAEM. A polymerizable hydroxy-functional or other active hydrogen containing monomer may also be converted to the corresponding acetoacetyl-functional monomer by reaction with diketene or other acetoacetylating agent (see, e.g., Comparison of Methods for the Preparation of Acetoacetylated Coating Resins, Witzeman, J. S.; Dell Nottingham, W.; Del Rector, F. J. Coatings Technology; Vol. 62, 1990, 101 (and citations contained therein)). The latex polymer may for example include at least about 0.5 weight % acetoacetyl functionality, about 0.5 to about 5 weight % acetoacetyl functionality, or about 2 to about 7.5 weight % acetoacetyl functionality based on the total latex polymer weight. Functionalized latex polymers are further described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006\/0135684 A1 and US 2006\/0135686 A1. When present, the acetoacetyl functional group preferably is incorporated into the latex polymer using 2-(acetoacetoxy)ethyl methacrylate, t-butyl acetoacetate, diketene, or combinations thereof.","The disclosed coating compositions may contain a multistage latex polymer and a separate silane coupling agent that is not reacted with or reactive with the multistage latex polymer. Exemplary silane coupling agents include alkoxysilanes such as bis(triethoxysilyl)ethane, 1,2-bis(trimethoxysilyl)decane, (trimethoxysilyl)ethane and bis[(3-methyldimethoxysilyl)propyl]polypropylene oxide; carboxylate silanes such as carboxyethylsilanetriol sodium salt; hydroxy silanes such as bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane, triethoxysilylmethanol, N-(triethoxysilylpropyl)-o-polyethylene oxide urethane and N-(3-triethoxysilylpropyl)gluconamide; phosphate and phosphine silanes such as diethylphosphatoethyltriethoxysilane and 3-trihydroxysilylpropylmethylphosphonate, sodium salt; and sulfonate silanes such as 3-(trihydroxysilyl)-1-propanesulfonic acid. The silane may also be a polymeric silane such as triethoxysilyl-modified poly-1,2-butadiene from Gelest, Inc. and aminoalkyl silsesquioxane oligomers from Gelest, Inc.","Practical considerations such as solubility, hydrolysis rate, compatibility with the coating composition, polymer stability, and the like may be considered when selecting the structure and molecular weight of the silane and choosing whether to react the silane with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is found, or to react the silane with functionality on the already-formed latex polymer, or to provide the silane as a separate silane coupling agent that is not reacted with or reactive with the multistage latex polymer. Each of these approaches or a combination of any two of them may be used if desired. Whether the silane has been reacted into the multistage latex polymer during polymer formation, reacted onto the multistage latex polymer after polymer formation, or provided as a separate silane coupling agent, the disclosed coating compositions may for example contain at least about 0.2 weight %, at least about 0.5 weight %, or at least about 0.7 weight % silane, based on a comparison of the weight of silane starting material to the latex polymer weight. The multistage latex polymer may for example contain less than about 10 weight %, less than about 6 weight %, or less than about 4 weight % silane, based on a comparison of the weight of silane starting material to the latex polymer weight. The disclosed silane amounts may have to be adjusted upward for compositions that include silane-functional ingredients whose silane groups react (e.g., as a crosslinker) with a component in the coating composition and thereby become unavailable for surface coupling or other adhesion promotion on a cementitious substrate.","As one exemplary embodiment, a multistage latex polymer with a silanated soft segment may be prepared by providing a monomer composition containing 5 to 65 parts butyl acrylate, 20 to 90 parts butyl methacrylate, 0 to 55 parts methyl methacrylate, 0.5 to 5 parts (meth)acrylic acid, 0 to 20 parts AAEM and 0.1 to 2 parts olefinic silane. A silanated hard segment may be introduced by providing a monomer composition including 0 to 20 parts butyl acrylate, 0 to 40 parts butyl methacrylate, 45 to 95 parts methyl methacrylate, 0.5 to 5 parts (meth)acrylic acid, 0 to 20 parts AAEM and 0.1 to 2 parts olefinic silane. The olefinic silane may be reacted into either or both of the soft and hard segments. Silane functionality may instead or in addition be reacted onto the already-formed multistage latex polymer via reaction with functionality on either or both of the soft and hard segments.","A variety of water-soluble acids and their salts may be used in the disclosed coating compositions. The acid or acid salt may for example have a water solubility of at least 5 wt. %, at least 10 wt. %, at least 20 wt. %, at least 50 wt. % or complete water miscibility. Exemplary acids may be inorganic or organic acids, and if organic may be monomeric or oligomeric. If desired, a precursor to the acid such as an acid anhydride, acid halide (including inorganic acid halides such as Lewis acids and organic acid halides), or ester can be used in place of or in addition to the acid itself, e.g., to generate the desired acid in situ. Exemplary acids include carboxylic acids; sulfonic acids; phosphorus acids; nitric and nitrous acids; hydrogen halides such as hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen bromide and hydrogen iodide; other mineral acids such as boric acid and sulfuric acid; silicic acids; and phenols. Exemplary water-soluble acid salts include sodium, potassium, lithium and ammonium salts, and various other water-soluble metal salts including water-soluble magnesium, calcium and iron salts. Mixtures of acids, acid anhydrides and acid salts may be employed, including mixtures which buffer the pH of the disclosed coating compositions.","Exemplary carboxylic acids include acetic acid (CHO, CAS RN 64-19-7), maleic acid (CHO, CAS RN 110-16-7), citric acid (CHO, CAS RN 77-92-0), formic acid (CHO, CAS RN 64-18-6) and benzoic acid (CHO, CAS RN 65-86-0). Exemplary carboxylic acid salts include sodium acetate (CAS RN 127-09-3), potassium acetate (CAS RN 127-08-2), lithium acetate (CAS RN 6108-17-4), ammonium acetate (CAS RN 631-61-8), sodium citrate (CAS RN 6132-04-3), potassium citrate (CAS RN 866-84-2 or 7778-49-6), lithium citrate (CAS RN 919-16-4), ammonium citrate (CAS RN 1185-57-5) and ammonium citrate dibasic (CAS RN 3012-65-5).","Exemplary phosphorus acids include phosphoric acid (HPO, CAS RN 7664-38-2), pyrophosphoric acid (HOP, CAS RN 2466-09-03), polyphosphoric acid (HPO, CAS RN 8017-16-1), phosphonic acid (HPO, CAS RN 13598-36-2), phosphinic acid (HPO, CAS RN 6303-21-5), ethyl phosphonic acid (CHOP, CAS RN 15845-66-6) and hypophosphoric acid (HPO, CAS RN 7803-60-3). Exemplary phosphorus acid salts include ammonium dihydrogen phosphate (NHHPO, CAS RN 7722-76-1), diammonium hydrogen phosphate ((NH)HPO, CAS RN 7783-28-0), calcium dihydrogen phosphate (Ca(HPO), CAS RN 7758-23-8), calcium monohydrogen phosphate dihydrate (CaHPO.2HO, CAS RN 7789-77-7), calcium phosphate tribasic (Ca(PO).HO, CAS RN 7758-87-4), ferric phosphate (FePO, CAS RN 10045-86-0), lithium orthophosphate (LiPO, CAS RN 10377-52-3), magnesium ammonium phosphate hydrate ((NH)MgPO, CAS RN 7785-21-9), magnesium hydrogen phosphate trihydrate (MgHPO.3HO, CAS RN 7757-86-0), potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KHPO, CAS RN 7778-77-0), dipotassium hydrogen phosphate (KHPO, CAS RN 7758-11-4), dipotassium hydrogen phosphate trihydrate (KHPO.3HO, CAS RN 16788-57-1), potassium orthophosphate (KPO, CAS RN 7778-53-2), potassium diphosphate (KPO, CAS RN 7320-34-5), sodium dihydrogen phosphate (NaHPO, CAS RN 7558-80-7), sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate (NaHPO.HO, CAS RN 10049-21-5), disodium hydrogen phosphate (NaHPO, CAS RN 7558-79-4), disodium phosphate dibasic dodecahydrate (NaHPO.12HO, CAS RN 10039-32-4), disodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate (NaHPO.7HO, CAS RN 7782-85-6), trisodium phosphate (NaPO, CAS RN 7601-54-9), sodium phosphate tribasic dodecahydrate (NaPO.12HO, CAS RN 10101-89-0), sodium metaphosphate (NaPO, CAS RN 10361-03-2), disodium pytophosphate (NaHPO, CAS RN 7758-16-9), tetrasodium pyrophosphate (NaOP, CAS RN 7722-88-5), sodium trimetaphosphate (NaPO, CAS RN 7785-84-4), sodium tripolyphosphate (NaOP, CAS RN 13573-18-7), hexasodium tetraphosphate (NaOP, CAS RN 14986-84-6) and sodium polymetaphosphate (CAS RN 50813-16-6).","Exemplary silicic acids and salts include sodium silicate (CAS RN 15859-24-2), disodium metasilicate (CAS RN 6834-92-0), silicic acid sodium salt (CAS RN 1344-09-8), potassium silicate (CAS RN 1312-76-1), lithium silicate (CAS RN 10102-24-6), magnesium silicate and ammonium silicate.","Carboxylic acids, phosphoric acids, alkylsulfonic acids and arylsulfonic acids are preferred, as are sodium and ammonium salts of acids. Acids and salts having low toxicity and low or moderate tendency to irritate the skin are also preferred. Citric acid, phosphoric acid and their corresponding sodium and ammonium salts are especially preferred.","The disclosed coating compositions may for example contain about 1 to about 40 wt. %, about 5 to about 30 wt. % or about 7 to about 20 wt. % acid, anhydride or salt. When an acid and salt which buffer the coating composition are employed, the amounts and types of acid and salt may for example provide a pH of about 5 to about 9 or about 6 to about 8.","The disclosed coating compositions may contain a variety of adjuvants which will be familiar to persons having ordinary skill in the art or which can be determined using standard methods. For example, the coating compositions may contain one or more optional coalescents to facilitate film formation. Exemplary coalescents include fugitive coalescents including glycol ethers such as EASTMAN\u2122 EP, EASTMAN DM, EASTMAN DE, EASTMAN DP, EASTMAN DB and EASTMAN PM from Eastman Chemical Co. and ester alcohols such as TEXANOL\u2122 ester alcohol from Eastman Chemical Co., and permanent coalescents including EPS\u2122 9147 low VOC coalescent from EPS-Materials. Preferably, the optional coalescent is a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,762,230 B2. The coating compositions preferably include a low VOC coalescent in an amount of at least about 0.5 weight %, more preferably at least about 1 weight %, and yet more preferably at least about 2 weight %. The coating compositions also preferably include a low VOC coalescent in an amount of less than about 10 weight %, more preferably less than about 6 weight %, and yet more preferably less than about 4 weight %, based on the latex polymer weight.","The disclosed coating compositions may include a surface-active agent (surfactant) that modifies the interaction of the coating composition with the substrate or with a prior applied coating. The surface-active agent affects qualities of the composition including how the composition is handled, how it spreads across the surface of the substrate, and how it bonds to the substrate. In particular, the agent can modify the ability of the composition to wet a substrate. Surface-active agents may also provide leveling, defoaming or flow control properties, and the like. If used, the surface-active agent is preferably present in an amount of less than 5 weight %, based on the total coating composition weight. Exemplary surface-active agents include those available under the trade designations STRODEX\u2122 KK-95H, STRODEX PLF100, STRODEX PKOVOC, STRODEX LFK70, STRODEX SEK50D and DEXTROL\u2122 0050 from Dexter Chemical L.L.C. of Bronx, N.Y.; HYDROPALAT\u2122 100, HYDROPALAT 140, HYDROPALAT 44, HYDROPALAT 5040 and HYDROPALAT 3204 from Cognis Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio; LIPOLIN\u2122 A, DISPERS\u2122 660C, DISPERS 715W and DISPERS 750W from Degussa Corp. of Parsippany, N.J.; BYK\u2122 156, BYK 2001 and ANTI-TERRA\u2122 207 from Byk Chemie of Wallingford, Conn.; DISPEX\u2122 A40, DISPEX N40, DISPEX R50, DISPEX G40, DISPEX GA40, EFKA\u2122 1500, EFKA 1501, EFKA 1502, EFKA 1503, EFKA 3034, EFKA 3522, EFKA 3580, EFKA 3772, EFKA 4500, EFKA 4510, EFKA 4520, EFKA 4530, EFKA 4540, EFKA 4550, EFKA 4560, EFKA 4570, EFKA 6220, EFKA 6225, EFKA 6230 and EFKA 6525 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals of Tarrytown, N.Y.; SURFYNOL\u2122 CT-111, SURFYNOL CT-121, SURFYNOL CT-131, SURFYNOL CT-211, SURFYNOL CT 231, SURFYNOL CT-136, SURFYNOL CT-151, SURFYNOL CT-171, SURFYNOL CT-234, CARBOWET\u2122 DC-01, SURFYNOL 104, SURFYNOL PSA-336, SURFYNOL 420, SURFYNOL 440, ENVIROGEM\u2122 AD-01 and ENVIROGEM AE01 from Air Products & Chemicals, Inc. of Allentown, Pa.; TAMOL\u2122 1124, TAMOL 850, TAMOL 681, TAMOL 731 and TAMOL SG-1 from Rohm and Haas Co. of Philadelphia, Pa.; IGEPAL\u2122 CO-210, IGEPAL CO-430, IGEPAL CO-630, IGEPAL CO-730, and IGEPAL CO-890 from Rhodia Inc. of Cranbury, N.J.; T-DETT\u2122 and T-MULZT\u2122 products from Harcros Chemicals Inc. of Kansas City, Kans.; polydimethylsiloxane surface-active agents (such as those available under the trade designations SILWET\u2122 L-760 and SILWET L-7622 from OSI Specialties, South Charleston, W. Va., or BYK 306 from Byk Chemie) and fluorinated surface-active agents (such as that commercially available as FLUORAD FC-430 from 3M Co., St. Paul, Minn.). The surface-active agent may be a defoamer. Exemplary defoamers include BYK 018, BYK 019, BYK 020, BYK 022, BYK 025, BYK 032, BYK 033, BYK 034, BYK 038, BYK 040, BYK 051, BYK 060, BYK 070, BYK 077 and BYK 500 from Byk Chemie; SURFYNOL DF-695, SURFYNOL DF-75, SURFYNOL DF-62, SURFYNOL DF-40 and SURFYNOL DF-110D from Air Products & Chemicals, Inc.; DEEFO\u2122 3010A, DEEFO 2020E\/50, DEEFO 215, DEEFO 806-102 and AGITAN\u2122 31BP from Munzing Chemie GmbH of Heilbronn, Germany; EFKA 2526, EFKA 2527 and EFKA 2550 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals; FOAMAX\u2122 8050, FOAMAX 1488, FOAMAX 7447, FOAMAX 800, FOAMAX 1495 and FOAMAX 810 from Degussa Corp.; FOAMASTER\u2122 714, FOAMASTER A410, FOAMASTER 111, FOAMASTER 333, FOAMASTER 306, FOAMASTER SA-3, FOAMASTER AP, DEHYDRAN\u2122 1620, DEHYDRAN 1923 and DEHYDRAN 671 from Cognis Corp.","Exemplary coating compositions may contain one or more optional pigments. Pigments suitable for use in the coating compositions will be known to persons having ordinary skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods. Exemplary pigments include titanium dioxide white, carbon black, lampblack, black iron oxide, red iron oxide, yellow iron oxide, brown iron oxide (a blend of red and yellow oxide with black), phthalocyanine green, phthalocyanine blue, organic reds (such as naphthol red, quinacridone red and toluidine red), quinacridone magenta, quinacridone violet, DNA orange, or organic yellows (such as Hansa yellow). The composition can also include a gloss control additive or an optical brightener, such as that commercially available under the trade designation UVITEX\u2122 OB from Ciba-Geigy.","In certain embodiments it is advantageous to include fillers or inert ingredients in the coating composition. Fillers or inert ingredients extend, lower the cost of, alter the appearance of, or provide desirable characteristics to the composition before and after curing. Exemplary fillers or inert ingredients include, for example, clay, glass beads, calcium carbonate, talc, silicas, feldspar, mica, barytes, ceramic microspheres, calcium metasilicates, organic fillers, and the like. For example, the composition may include abrasion resistance promoting adjuvants such as silica or aluminum oxide (e.g., sol gel processed aluminum oxide). Suitable fillers or inert ingredients are preferably present in an amount of less than 15 weight %, based on the total coating composition weight.","The disclosed coating compositions may include wax emulsions to improve coating physical performance or rheology control agents to improve application properties. Exemplary wax emulsions include MICHEM\u2122 Emulsions 32535, 21030, 61335, 80939M and 7173MOD from Michelman, Inc. of Cincinnati, Ohio and CHEMCOR\u2122 20N35, 43A40, 950C25 and 10N30 from ChemCor of Chester, N.Y. Exemplary rheology control agents include RHEOVIS\u2122 112, RHEOVIS 132, RHEOVIS 152, VISCALEX\u2122 HV30, VISCALEX AT88, EFKA 6220 and EFKA 6225 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals; BYK 420 and BYK 425 from Byk Chemie; RHEOLATE\u2122 205, RHEOLATE 420 and RHEOLATE 1 from Elementis Specialties of Hightstown, N.J.; ACRYSOL\u2122 L TT-615, ACRYSOL RM-5, ACRYSOL RM-6, ACRYSOL RM-8W, ACRYSOL RM-2020 and ACRYSOL RM-825 from Rohm and Haas Co.; NATROSOL\u2122 250LR from Hercules Inc. of Wilmington, Del. and CELLOSIZE\u2122 QP09L from Dow Chemical Co. of Midland, Mich.","The disclosed coating compositions may include a biocide, fungicide, mildewcide or other preservative. Inclusion of such materials is especially desirable due to the very good water resistance properties of the disclosed coating compositions and the consequent likelihood that they will be selected for use in abnormally damp or wet conditions or even under standing or moving water. Exemplary such preservatives include KATHON\u2122 LX microbicide, ROZONE\u2122 2000 fungicide and ROCIMA\u2122 80 algicide from Rohm & Haas of Philadelphia, Pa., the BUSAN\u2122 series of bactericides, fungicides and preservatives including BUSAN 1292 and 1440 from Buckman Laboratories of Memphis, Tenn.; the POLYPHASE\u2122 series of bactericides, fungicides and algaecides including POLYPHASE\u2122 663 and 678 from Troy Chemical Corp. of Florham Park, N.J., the IRGAROL\u2122 and NUOSEPT\u2122 series of biocides including NUOSEPT 91, 101, 145, 166, 485, 495, 497, 498, 515, 635W and 695 from International Specialties Products, the FUNGITROLT\u2122 series of fungicides including FUNGITROL C, 334, 404D, 720, 920, 940, 960, 2002, and 2010 from International Specialties Products, and the DOWICIL\u2122 series of antimicrobials and preservatives including DOWICIL 75, 96, 150, 200, and QC-20 from Dow Chemical Co.","The coating composition may also include other adjuvants which modify properties of the coating composition as it is stored, handled, or applied, and at other or subsequent stages. Desirable performance characteristics include chemical resistance, abrasion resistance, hardness, gloss, reflectivity, appearance, or combinations of these characteristics, and other similar characteristics. Many suitable adjuvants are described in Koleske et al., Paint and Coatings Industry, April, 2003, pages 12-86 or will be familiar to those skilled in the art. Representative adjuvants include amines, anti-cratering agents, colorants, curing indicators, dispersants, dyes, flatting agents (e.g., BYK CERAFLOUR\u2122 920 from Byk Chemie), glycols, heat stabilizers, leveling agents, mar and abrasion additives, optical brighteners, plasticizers, sedimentation inhibitors, thickeners, ultraviolet-light absorbers and the like to modify properties.","The disclosed coating compositions preferably have a minimum film forming temperature (MFFT) about 0 to about 55\u00b0 C., more preferably about 0 to about 20\u00b0 C., when tested with a RHOPOINT\u2122 1212\/42, MFFT Bar-60, available from Rhopoint Instruments Ltd. of East Sussex, United Kingdom. The compositions preferably have a PVC of less than about 50 percent, more preferably less than about 35 percent, and most preferably less than about 25 percent. The compositions preferably include less than 10 weight %, more preferably less than 7 weight %, and most preferably less than 4 weight % total VOCs based upon the total composition weight.","The coating composition may be applied directly to the substrate or applied to a substrate which has been optionally subjected to one or more of pretreatment with a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt like those described above, coating with a sealer, or coating with a primer. Any suitable application method may be used for such pretreatment, sealer or primer. For example, the pretreatment may be applied to a wet or dry substrate. When applied at a manufacturing location, the pretreatment may be applied before or after or both before and after the substrate is subjected to drying (e.g., oven drying) to remove water from the binder. Normally it will be most convenient to apply the pretreatment after the substrate has been formed into a desired shape (e.g., a board) and before the substrate is dried to remove water from the binder, as the drying step will also remove water from the pretreatment solution. The pretreatment may be applied using any convenient method including brushing (e.g., using a brush coater), direct roll coating, reverse roll coating, flood coating, vacuum coating, curtain coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile, morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. The pretreatment may be applied only to burnished regions and at least one edge proximate the burnished region (e.g., over the burnished region and about 100, 50 or 25 mm beyond that region past an edge and into an unburnished area); to all edges, sides and ends of the substrate; or to all edges, sides and ends and to at least one and if desired both major face(s) of the substrate. The concentration of acid, acid anhydride or acid salt in the pretreatment solution may vary, and may be determined or adjusted empirically using the Wet Adhesion test described below. There may be an optimal concentration range below and above which reduced topcoat adhesion may be observed. For example, concentrations of about 1 to about 86, about 2 to about 75, about 5 to about 60, about 8 to about 40, or about 10 to about 30 wt. % acid, acid anhydride or acid salt in water may be employed, based on the total weight of the solution. In one embodiment, the amount of acid, acid anhydride or acid salt in the pretreatment solution is from about 1 to about 30 weight % based on the total weight of the solution.","The optional sealer or primer and the disclosed coating composition may be roll coated, sprayed, curtain coated, vacuum coated, brushed, or flood coated using an air knife system. For field applied coating systems, e.g., cement garage floors, floor tiles, decks, and the like, the optional sealer or primer and the disclosed coating composition desirably are applied by rolling, spraying, or brushing. For factory-applied applications, preferred application methods provide a uniform coating thickness and are cost efficient. Especially preferred application methods employ factory equipment which moves a substrate with a first major surface past a coating head and thence past suitable drying or curing equipment. The applied materials desirably cover at least a portion of the first major surface of the substrate, and preferably cover the entire first major surface, in a substantially uniformly thick layer. Accordingly, the disclosed coated articles preferably are coated on at least one major surface with the coating composition. More preferably, the coated articles are coated on a major surface and up to four minor surfaces including any edges. Most preferably, the coated articles are coated on all (e.g., both) major surfaces, and up to four minor surfaces including any edges.","Preferred coatings resist crush damage. Coated products (e.g., fiber cement siding products) may be evaluated using a Visual Assessment of Crush Resistance test as described in U.S. Patent Application No. 2007\/0110981, published May 17, 2007 and the 1 to 5 rating scale shown below in Table 1, with 5 being essentially no damage and 1 being severe coating damage:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0075"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Visual Assessment"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rating",{}]},{"entry":["value","Panel Appearance"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["1","Obviously crushed: Peaks are severely crushed and the grain"]},{"entry":[{},"pattern from the opposing board is embossed into the coating,"]},{"entry":[{},"causing severe wrinkling of the coating around the damaged"]},{"entry":[{},"area."]},{"entry":["2","Moderately crushed: Peaks show flattening to widths over 4 mm,"]},{"entry":[{},"and the grain pattern from the opposing board is slightly"]},{"entry":[{},"embossed into the coating"]},{"entry":["3","Slightly crushed: Many peaks show flattening to a width of 2"]},{"entry":[{},"mm to 4 mm."]},{"entry":["4","Very slightly crushed: A few peaks show peak flattening to a"]},{"entry":[{},"width less than 2 mm."]},{"entry":["5","Uncrushed: no crushed peaks or glossy spots are visible to the"]},{"entry":[{},"unaided eye or with 5X magnification."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The disclosed coatings preferably provide crush resistance of at least 3, more preferably at least 4 and most preferably 5 when two face-to-face coated embossed substrates are subjected to a pressure of about 6 kg\/cm, more preferably about 8 kg\/cm, and most preferably about 10 kg\/cm. For example, the test board samples preferably achieve a rating of 3 or greater, more preferably 4 or greater, and optimally 5, when tested at a pressure of about 8 kg\/cm.","Preferred coatings also resist damage from hot tires. Coating substrates (e.g., coated cementitious substrates) may be evaluated by a visual assessment of hot tire pick up resistance as follows. Over a 6\u2033\u00d76\u2033 (15.24\u00d715.24 cm) pre-cast concrete block the coating composition is applied at an application rate of 300 sq. ft.\/gal. (6.13 square meters per liter), with a minimum coated area of 3\u2033\u00d76\u2033 (7.62\u00d715.24 cm) to accommodate an automobile tire section. After curing 4 hours, a second coat is applied. The coating is allowed to cure for 7 days at 20-25\u00b0 C., and 35%-50% R.H. An automobile tire section, measuring approximately 6\u2033\u00d73\u2033 (15.24\u00d77.62 cm), with wear approximating 6,000 to 10,000 miles (9660 to 16,090 km) is used in the test. A forced-convection laboratory oven is pre-heated to 140\u00b0 F. (+\/\u22122\u00b0 F.) (60\u00b0 C.) prior to placing the sample and tire sections into the oven for heated storage. After the coating has cured for 7 days, the test sample is submerged in water at 20-25\u00b0 C. for 16 hours prior to initiating the test. After removing the test sample from the water bath, a wet cloth or towel is wrapped around the test sample, making sure it contacts the coating, and is placed in the pre-heated oven. The tire section to be used is placed in the oven also, though not on top of the sample at this point. Periodically, the cloth\/towel is misted with water to maintain the moisture level. The test sample and tire section are allowed to remain in the oven for 1 hour. After 1 hour, the test sample and tire section are removed from the oven, and the cloth\/towel is removed from the test sample. The test sample is placed on the lower plate of a laboratory press, with the coating facing up, and then the tire section is placed on top of the sample, centering the tire tread on the coated area of the sample. Using a contact area of 3\u2033\u00d76\u2033 (7.62\u00d715.24 cm), a force of 2700 lbs. (1,224 kg) should be applied, generating 150 psi (1,034 kPa). This is intended to simulate the effect of a 5000 lb. (2,267 kg) vehicle driven onto the coated surface. The test sample and tire section is allowed to remain in the press for 1 hour. The press should be checked periodically to insure that the force applied remains constant. After 1 hour, the tire section and test sample are removed and evaluated. Observations are made as to whether any of the coating has delaminated from the surface. The coating is further examined and any marring, adhesion loss, or any latent prints\/images left behind by the tire section are noted. In some cases, an image or print of the tire section may be left behind, but may not be readily visible unless the sample is tilted or observed at an angle. One portion of the coating should be cleaned with a commercial household cleaning product such as Formula 409\u2122 cleaner from The Clorox Company, and it should be noted whether the cleaner has removed any prints or images that existed on the coating, and whether the cleaner stained the coating. The coating should exhibit no declamation, marring, imprinting or other scuffing that cannot be removed by light cleaning with the household cleaner. Desirably, a composition employing the silane exhibits improved delamination resistance in this test compared to a composition that does not contain the silane.","Wet Adhesion and Early Water Resistance may be evaluated using a modified version of ASTM D3359-02, \u201cStandard Test Methods for Measuring Adhesion by Tape Test\u201d, carried out as follows. Two coats of the coating composition are applied 4 hours apart at a dry film thickness of 0.02 mm to a Black Carrara Glass panel and allowed to dry for a further four hours at ambient temperature. The coated panels are partially immersed in a water bath for a period of 16-18 hours. Immediately following the immersion period, the paint films are evaluated for wet and dry adhesion using ASTM D3359, Test Method B. \u201cWet Adhesion\u201d and \u201cDry Adhesion\u201d performance are rated on a 0 to 5 scale, with 0 representing greater than 65% coating removal and 5 representing 0% coating removal, and the Wet Adhesion results typically being of greatest interest. A visual inspection and subjective ratings of blister resistance and blush resistance for immersed panels are also used to evaluate Early Water Resistance. Desirably, a composition employing the silane exhibits an improvement in one or more of wet adhesion, dry adhesion, blister resistance or blush resistance in these tests compared to a composition that does not contain the silane.","Pull-Off Strength may be evaluated using ASTM D 4541-93, \u201cStandard Test Method for Pull-Off Strength of Coatings Using Portable Adhesion Testers\u201d, carried out as follows. Coatings were applied to 30 cm\u00d760 cm precast concrete blocks using brush coating and a 0.08 mm wet coating thickness. The coating was allowed to cure 4 hours followed by brush coat application of a second 0.08 mm wet coating. The finished coating was then allowed to cure at room temperature (about 25\u00b0 C.) for 7 days before performing adhesion testing. Adhesion tests were run in triplicate, using three applied 20 mm diameter pull-off buttons (\u201cdollies\u201d) per coating sample. LOCTITE\u2122 two-part marine epoxy from Henkel Corporation and a 50 minute cure time were employed to adhere the dollies to the coatings. An ELCOMETER\u2122 Model 106 Portable Adhesion Tester from Elcometer Inc. was used to measure pull-off forces.","The following examples are offered to aid in understanding of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. The Tg inflection points were determined using a Q SERIES\u2122 DSC thermal analysis instrument from TA Instruments of New Castle, Del.","An exemplary multistage silane-functional acetoacetyl-functional latex polymer may be prepared as follows. A reactor is charged with 500-800 parts of deionized water and 2-6 parts emulsifier. The reaction mixture is heated to 75\u00b0-80\u00b0 C. under a nitrogen blanket. During heating, pre-emulsion 1 is formed having 75-250 parts of deionized water, 2-9 parts of emulsifier, 0.2-0.6 parts persulfate initiator, 50-150 parts of butyl acrylate, 0-200 parts of methylmethacrylate, 250-450 parts of butyl methacrylate, 0-40 parts of AAEM, 0-15 parts vinyl silane, and 5-30 parts of (meth)acrylic acid. In a separate vessel, pre-emulsion 2 is formed having 75-250 parts of deionized water, 2-9 parts of emulsifier, 0.2-0.6 parts persulfate initiator (e.g., sodium persulfate), 150-500 parts of methylmethacrylate, 5-100 parts of butyl acrylate, 0-40 parts of AAEM, 0-15 parts vinyl silane, and 5-30 parts of (meth)acrylic acid. After the reaction mixture reaches 75\u00b0 C., 1-6 parts of persulfate initiator is added to the reactor and the pre-emulsion 1 is added over a 1-3 hour feed rate. After pre-emulsion 1 is added, the container is rinsed with 20 parts deionized water and pre-emulsion 2 is added over a 1-3 hour feed rate. The reaction temperature is held between 80\u00b0 C. and 85\u00b0 C. during polymerization. After the pre-emulsion 2 feed is complete, the container is rinsed with 20 parts of deionized water and the reaction is held 30 minutes. Post-reaction addition of 0.5-1.5 parts t-butyl hydroperoxide mixed with 20 parts of deionized water and 0.3-1.5 parts of isoascorbic acid mixed with 20 parts of deionized water are then added over 30 minutes. The resulting latex polymer is then cooled to 40\u00b0 C., and 28% ammonia is added to adjust the pH to 7.5-8.5.","Using the method of Example 1 (but without employing vinyl silane in the latex reaction mixture), a multistage latex polymer was prepared from a first monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, AAEM, acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and a second monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, AAEM and acrylic acid. Five parts AAEM were employed per 100 parts total monomer. 100 Parts of the multistage latex polymer were then combined with 0.8 parts SILQUEST\u2122 A-187 \u03b3-glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane.  shows the DSC curve, and demonstrates that the polymer exhibited two distinct Tg values, namely a soft stage Tg at about 8.6\u00b0 C. and a hard stage Tg at about 89.3\u00b0 C. Solids were 40% and the MMFT was less than 10\u00b0 C.","Using the method of Example 1, a vinyl silane-functional multistage latex polymer was prepared from a first monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, AAEM, SILQUEST A-171 vinyl silane, acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and a second monomer mixture containing methyl methacrylate, butyl acrylate, AAEM, A-171 vinyl silane and acrylic acid. Five parts AAEM and 0.8 parts vinyl silane were employed per 100 parts total monomer.  shows the DSC curve, and demonstrates that the polymer exhibited two distinct Tg values, namely a soft stage Tg at about 7.2\u00b0 C. and a hard stage Tg at about 92.5\u00b0 C. Solids were 40% and the MMFT was less than 10\u00b0 C.","In a method like that of Example 2, the Example 2 multistage latex polymer may be combined with 0.8 parts aminopropyltriethoxysilane rather than 0.8 parts \u03b3-glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane. The aminopropyltriethoxysilane would react at room temperature with the acetoacetyl functionality in the multistage latex polymer.","In a method like that of Example 3, an epoxy silane-functional multistage latex polymer may be prepared from first and second monomer mixtures containing \u03b3-glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane rather than A-171 vinyl silane.","An exemplary base coating resin may be prepared as follows. In a mixing vessel equipped with a high-speed mixer and mixing blade mixer are charged 10 to 50 parts water, 40 to 85 parts of a silane-containing multistage latex polymer solution and 1 to 40 parts water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt. If desired, 0 to 20 parts other non-pigment additives may be introduced. If desired (for example, to make a pigmented coating rather than a clearcoat), up to about 50 parts of pigments or flatting agents may be introduced.","To demonstrate the effects of using a multistage latex polymer and silane when a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt is not present, a series of four coating compositions was prepared using modified versions of the Example 3 polymer. The first composition (Example 7a) employed a silane-free multistage latex polymer formed as in Example 3 but without employing vinyl silane in the latex reaction mixture. The second composition (Example 7b) employed a silane-free single stage latex polymer formed from the monomers methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, butyl acrylate, acetoacetoxyethylmethacrylate and acrylic acid and having a calculated 15\u00b0 C. Tg. The third composition (Example 7c) employed a silane-containing multistage latex polymer made using A-187 epoxy-functional silane rather than A-171 vinyl silane in the Example 3 latex reaction mixture. The fourth composition (Example 7d) employed the Example 3 multistage latex polymer. The coating compositions also included water, SURFYNOL\u2122 PSA-336 wetting agent from Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., BYK\u2122-024 defoamer from Altana AG, TEXANOL\u2122 ester alcohol coalescent from Eastman Chemical Company, 28% ammonium hydroxide from Sigma-Aldrich Co., FUNGITROL\u2122 940 fungicide from International Specialties Products, NUOSEPT\u2122 485 biocide (8.5% 1,2-Benzisothiazol-3(2H)-one) from International Specialties Products, and ethylene glycol from Sigma-Aldrich Co. as shown below in Table 2. The ingredients were mixed for about 30 minutes using moderate agitation until a well-dispersed, homogenous mixture was formed. The compositions were evaluated to determine film appearance, blush resistance for immersed samples, and Wet Adhesion using ASTM D3359, Test Method B. The results are shown below in Table 3:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0088"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":["Ingredient","7a","7b","7c","7d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water","183","183","183","183"]},{"entry":["Silane-free multistage","645"]},{"entry":"latex polymer"},{"entry":["Silane-free single",{},"645"]},{"entry":"stage latex polymer"},{"entry":["Silane-containing",{},{},"645"]},{"entry":"multistage latex"},{"entry":"polymer (A-187)"},{"entry":["Silane-containing",{},{},{},"645"]},{"entry":"multistage latex"},{"entry":"polymer (A-171)"},{"entry":["SURFYNOL PSA-336","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"wetting agent"},{"entry":["BYK-024 defoamer","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["TEXANOL ester alcohol","15","15","15","15"]},{"entry":"coalescent"},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"(28%)"},{"entry":["FUNGITROL 940","8","8","8","8"]},{"entry":"fungicide"},{"entry":["NUOSEPT 485 biocide","5","5","5","5"]},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":[{},"7a","7b","7c","7d"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Film appearance","Film filled","Smooth","Smooth,","Smooth,"]},{"entry":[{},"with","Film","defect-free","defect-free"]},{"entry":[{},"bubbles and",{},"film","film"]},{"entry":[{},"blisters"]},{"entry":["Blush resistance","No blushing","Heavy","No blushing","No blushing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"blushing"]},{"entry":["Wet Adhesion","0","0","5","5"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The results in Tables 2 and 3 show that use of a multistage latex and silane provide a desirable combination of very good film appearance, blush resistance and Wet Adhesion.","Using the method of Example 6, coating compositions were prepared by combining the ingredients shown below in Table 4 and mixing for about 30 minutes using moderate agitation until a well-dispersed, homogenous mixture was formed:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Example","Example"]},{"entry":[{},"Ingredient","8a","8b"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Water","183","183"]},{"entry":[{},"Example 5 base latex","645","645"]},{"entry":[{},"Ammonium citrate","153"]},{"entry":[{},"Ammonium phosphate",{},"153"]},{"entry":[{},"SURFYNOL PSA-336 wetting agent","3","3"]},{"entry":[{},"BYK-024 defoamer","3","3"]},{"entry":[{},"TEXANOL ester alcohol coalescent","15","15"]},{"entry":[{},"Ammonium hydroxide (28%)","3","3"]},{"entry":[{},"Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The Example 8a and 8b compositions provide clear sealers with good hardness, good Early Water Resistance and good adhesion to cement, especially to cement edges and corners. If the multistage latex polymer is replaced by a single stage polymer (e.g., like that used in Example 7b), the coatings will have reduced hardness, reduced Early Water Resistance and reduced adhesion to cement. If silane is not employed, the coatings will have reduced Wet Adhesion and reduced Early Water Resistance. If the acid or salt is not employed, the coatings will have reduced adhesion to cement and especially to cement edges and corners.","Clear concrete sealer formulations containing 10 wt. % or 20 wt. % sodium or ammonium citrate were prepared by combining the ingredients shown below in Table 6 other than the latex, measuring pH and adjusting if need be to obtain an alkaline mixture, adding the latex and mixing for about 30 minutes using moderate agitation until a well-dispersed, homogenous mixture was formed. The compositions were evaluated to determine Pull-Off Strength. The ingredients and results are shown below in Table 5:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0095"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":["Ingredient","9a","9b","9c","9d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water","183","183","183","183"]},{"entry":["Sodium citrate","96","215"]},{"entry":["Ammonium citrate",{},{},"96","215"]},{"entry":["SURFYNOL PSA-336","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"wetting agent"},{"entry":["BYK-024 defoamer","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["TEXANOL ester alcohol","15","15","15","15"]},{"entry":"coalescent"},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"(28%)"},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":["Example 2 latex","645","645","645","645"]},{"entry":["pH prior to base latex","8.16","8.16","5.28","5.28"]},{"entry":"addition"},{"entry":["pH after alkalinity",{},{},"7.25","7.25"]},{"entry":"adjustment"},{"entry":["Pull-Off Strength,","2.53","3.33","2.99","3.10"]},{"entry":"MPa"},{"entry":["Standard deviation,","0.65","0.59","0.33","1.23"]},{"entry":"MPA"},{"entry":["Observation",{},"1 of 3",{},"2 of 3"]},{"entry":[{},{},"showed",{},"showed"]},{"entry":[{},{},"concrete",{},"concrete"]},{"entry":[{},{},"pull-out",{},"pull-out"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The results in Table 5 show excellent concrete adhesion. In Example 9b, 1 of the 3 tested compositions exhibited concrete pull-out under the ELCOMETER dolly, and in Example 9d, 2 of the 3 samples exhibited concrete pull-out. When the salt was omitted, the average Pull-Off Strength was 2.30 Mpa with a standard deviation of 0.29 Mpa and no concrete-pull-out was observed.","Using the method of Examples 9a through 9d, clear concrete sealer formulations containing 10 wt. % or 20 wt. % sodium or ammonium phosphate were prepared. The ingredients and results are shown below in Table 6:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0098"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":["Ingredient","10a","10b","10c","10d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water","183","183","183","183"]},{"entry":["Sodium phosphate","96","215"]},{"entry":["Ammonium phosphate",{},{},"96","215"]},{"entry":["SURFYNOL PSA-336","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"wetting agent"},{"entry":["BYK-024 defoamer","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["TEXANOL ester alcohol","15","15","15","15"]},{"entry":"coalescent"},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"(28%)"},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":["Example 2 latex","645","645","645","645"]},{"entry":["pH prior to base latex","9.13","9.13","8.60","8.60"]},{"entry":"addition"},{"entry":["Pull-Off Strength,","3.91","3.10","3.56","3.45"]},{"entry":"MPa"},{"entry":["Standard deviation,","1.30","0.56","1.14","0.49"]},{"entry":"MPA"},{"entry":["Observation","1 of 3","1 of 3"]},{"entry":[{},"showed","showed"]},{"entry":[{},"concrete","concrete"]},{"entry":[{},"pull-out","pull-out"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The results in Table 6 show excellent concrete adhesion.","The method of Examples 9a through 9d was repeated using the Example 3 latex. The ingredients and results are shown below in Table 7:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0101"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":["Ingredient","11a","11b","11c","11d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water","183","183","183","183"]},{"entry":["Sodium citrate","96","215"]},{"entry":["Ammonium citrate",{},{},"96","215"]},{"entry":["SURFYNOL PSA-336","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"wetting agent"},{"entry":["BYK-024 defoamer","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["TEXANOL ester alcohol","15","15","15","15"]},{"entry":"coalescent"},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"(28%)"},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":["Example 3 latex","645","645","645","645"]},{"entry":["pH prior to latex","8.16","8.16","5.28","5.28"]},{"entry":"addition"},{"entry":["pH after alkalinity",{},{},"7.25","7.25"]},{"entry":"adjustment"},{"entry":["Pull-Off Strength,","3.10","2.18","2.07","2.99"]},{"entry":"MPa"},{"entry":["Standard deviation,","0.28","0.43","0.57","0.33"]},{"entry":"MPA"},{"entry":["Observation","2 of 3"]},{"entry":[{},"showed"]},{"entry":[{},"concrete"]},{"entry":[{},"pull-out"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The results in Table 7 show good concrete adhesion for each salt at one of the tested amounts, and with concrete pull-out for 2 of the 3 samples in Example 11a. In some instances the salt-containing compositions exhibited a viscosity increase a few days after mixing. When the salt was omitted, the average Pull-Off Strength was 2.76 Mpa with a standard deviation of 0.56 Mpa and no concrete pull-out was observed. The amounts and pH values in Examples 11a through 11d had not been optimized, but with such optimization the viscosity stability or concrete adhesion results might further improved.","The method of Examples 10a through 10d was repeated using the Example 3 latex. The ingredients and results are shown below in Table 8:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0104"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 8"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Example","Example","Example","Example"]},{"entry":["Ingredient","12a","12b","12c","12d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water","183","183","183","183"]},{"entry":["Sodium phosphate","96","215"]},{"entry":["Ammonium phosphate",{},{},"96","215"]},{"entry":["SURFYNOL PSA-336","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"wetting agent"},{"entry":["BYK-024 defoamer","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["TEXANOL ester alcohol","15","15","15","15"]},{"entry":"coalescent"},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide","3","3","3","3"]},{"entry":"(28%)"},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","9.3","9.3","9.3","9.3"]},{"entry":["Example 3 latex","645","645","645","645"]},{"entry":["pH prior to base latex","9.13","9.13","8.60","8.60"]},{"entry":"addition"},{"entry":["Pull-Off Strength,","2.87","2.41","3.33","3.56"]},{"entry":"MPa"},{"entry":["Standard deviation,","1.17","0.28","0.43","0.16"]},{"entry":"MPA"},{"entry":["Observation",{},"1 of 3","1 of 3","3 of 3"]},{"entry":[{},{},"showed","showed","showed"]},{"entry":[{},{},"concrete","concrete","concrete"]},{"entry":[{},{},"pull-out","pull-out","pull-out"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The results in Table 8 show excellent concrete adhesion.","Using the method of Examples 9a through 9d, a clear concrete sealer formulation containing 20 wt. % potassium silicate was prepared. The ingredients and results are shown below in Table 9:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0107"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 9"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Example"]},{"entry":[{},"Ingredient","11"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Water","183"]},{"entry":[{},"Potassium silicate","215"]},{"entry":[{},"SURFYNOL PSA-336 wetting agent","3"]},{"entry":[{},"BYK-024 defoamer","3"]},{"entry":[{},"TEXANOL ester alcohol coalescent","15"]},{"entry":[{},"Ammonium hydroxide (28%)","3"]},{"entry":[{},"Ethylene glycol","9.3"]},{"entry":[{},"Example 5 base latex","645"]},{"entry":[{},"pH prior to base latex addition","11.43"]},{"entry":[{},"Pull-Off Strength, MPa","3.33"]},{"entry":[{},"Standard deviation, MPA","1.55"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The results in Table 9 show excellent concrete adhesion.","A gray concrete floor paint formulation may be prepared by combining the ingredients shown below in Table 10 and mixing for about 30 minutes using moderate agitation until a well-dispersed, homogenous mixture is formed. The acid or salt may for example be citric acid, phosphoric acid or their corresponding sodium or ammonium salts:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0110"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 10"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Ingredient","Supplier","Parts"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Water",{},"42"]},{"entry":["Acid or salt",{},"100"]},{"entry":["TAMOL\u2009\u2122 731N dispersant","Rohm and Haas Co.","7"]},{"entry":["TRITON\u2009\u2122 CF-10 surfactant","Dow Chemical Co.","3"]},{"entry":["DREWPLUS\u2009\u2122 L-475 foam control","Ashland Aqualon","1"]},{"entry":["agent","Functional Ingredients"]},{"entry":["TI-PURE\u2009\u2122 R902 titanium dioxide","E. I. DuPont de","75"]},{"entry":[{},"Nemours and Co."]},{"entry":["MINEX\u2009\u2122 7 nepheline syenite","Unimin Canada Ltd.","150"]},{"entry":["ATTAGEL\u2009\u2122 50 attapulgite","BASF SE","2"]},{"entry":["Example 6 base latex",{},"552.5"]},{"entry":["NUOSEPT 485 biocide","International","5"]},{"entry":[{},"Specialties Products"]},{"entry":["Ammonium hydroxide (28%)","Sigma-Aldrich Co.","1"]},{"entry":["Ethylene glycol","Sigma-Aldrich Co.","9.33"]},{"entry":["Water",{},"120.8"]},{"entry":["EPS\u2009\u2122 9147 low VOC coalescent","EPS-Materials","22"]},{"entry":["DREWPLUS L-475 foam control",{},"2"]},{"entry":"agent"},{"entry":["ACRYSOL\u2009\u2122 RM-25 non-ionic","Rohm and Haas Co.","2"]},{"entry":"urethane rheology modifier"},{"entry":["ACRYSOL RM-2020 non-ionic","Rohm and Haas Co.","8"]},{"entry":"urethane rheology modifier"},{"entry":["TINT-EZE\u2009\u2122 2491 lamp black","Color Corporation","8"]},{"entry":["colorant","of America"]},{"entry":["TINE-EZE 2475 yellow iron oxide","Color Corporation","5"]},{"entry":["colorant","of America"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As mentioned above, the invention provides a method for preparing a coated article, which method comprises providing a cementitious substrate, coating at least a portion of the substrate with an aqueous coating composition comprising a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt, and allowing the coating composition to harden. The invention also provides a coated article comprising a cementitious substrate having at least one major surface on which is coated a layer comprising an aqueous coating composition comprising a multistage latex polymer; silane; and a water-soluble acid, acid anhydride or acid salt. Other embodiments of the invention include a method or coated article wherein:\n\n","All patents, patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies, the present disclosure, including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However, it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the invention.","Having thus described the preferred embodiments of the present invention, those of skill in the art will readily appreciate that the teachings found herein may be applied to yet other embodiments within the scope of the attached claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
