---
title: Generalized midcourse missile guidance
abstract: A method for guiding a multistage interceptor missile toward a target missile that may transition from a boost mode to a ballistic mode during the engagement. The method comprises the steps of tracking the position of the target missile with a sensor, generating a predicted intercept point and time, and loading the predicted intercept point and time into the interceptor missile guidance system. The interceptor missile is launched and transition is made to the second stage of propulsion of the interceptor missile. Second-stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands are generated in response to an elevated predicted intercept point generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method working on predicted target missile position, velocity, and acceleration. During third stage propulsion said interceptor missile is guided toward an updated predicted intercept point of the target missile. During fourth stage, the kinetic warhead effects a hit-to-kill intercept of the target missile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08106340&OS=08106340&RS=08106340
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08106340
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090302
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Contract\/Grant Aegis BMD N00024-03-C-6110. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","The Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is tasked to develop an integrated, layered Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) to defend the United States, its deployed forces, allies, and friends from ballistic missile attack. The MDA BMDS strategy covers all phases of target ballistic missile flight, including boost, midcourse, and terminal. The current Aegis BMD supports the MDA goal by providing hit-to-kill interceptor missile engagement capability against target ballistic missiles in the midcourse phase. Fielded capability of the current Aegis BMD does not launch against or intercept target missiles while in their boost phase.","When launching an interceptor missile, such as the four-stage Standard Missile 3 (SM-3) from an Aegis firing ship against a hostile missile, the first stage is launched in the direction of the predicted intercept point of the target missile. The second stage is guided using midcourse guidance to a waypoint, which defines the end of the second stage of guidance, and is consistent with an updated predicted intercept point calculated by the Aegis Weapon System (AWS), assuming a ballistic target trajectory (target missile is under the influence of only gravitational forces). The third stage is guided to the updated predicted intercept point using inertial guidance performed by the interceptor missile. Terminal guidance of the SM-3 interceptor missile is performed by the fourth stage kinetic warhead using a modified version of proportional navigation to effect a hit-to-kill intercept of the target missile.","The current second-stage midcourse guidance may not be fully effective against a boosting target missile, and improved midcourse guidance is desired which is generalized in the sense that engagements of both boosting and ballistic target missiles are facilitated.","A method according to an aspect of the invention is for guiding a multistage interceptor missile toward a target missile, where the target missile may transition from a boost mode to a ballistic mode during the engagement. The method comprises the steps of tracking the position of the target missile with a sensor to determine its location, generating a pre-interceptor-missile-launch predicted intercept point and predicted intercept time, and loading the predicted intercept point (PIP) and time into the interceptor missile guidance system. The interceptor missile is launched, and the first-stage guidance is controlled at least in response to the target missile bearing and elevation toward the predicted intercept point. A transition is made to the second stage of propulsion of the interceptor missile. Second-stage midcourse guidance of the interceptor missile is controlled in response to second-stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands, which may be generated by the firing Aegis ship. Second-stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands are generated in response to an elevated predicted intercept point. The elevated predicted intercept point is generated by adjusting a predicted intercept point to account for the effects of interceptor missile velocity at waypoint, interceptor missile propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint and the PIP. The predicted intercept point is generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method working on predicted target missile position, velocity, and acceleration. A transition is made to third-stage propulsion of the interceptor missile, and the interceptor missile is guided toward an updated predicted intercept point of the target missile. A transition is made to the fourth stage kinetic warhead to effect a hit-to-kill intercept of the target missile.","In a particular mode of the method, the step of generating the generalized midcourse guidance acceleration commands in response to an elevated predicted intercept point generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method includes the steps of:\n\n","This mode of the method also includes, following the step of generating the initial second-stage acceleration commands, iteratively repeating the steps of:\n\n","Boost-phase missile defense is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/430,644 filed May 9, 2006 in the name of Pedersen, and U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,394,047; 7,473,876; and 7,511,252 to Pedersen. As described in these references, defenses against ballistic missiles are currently concentrating upon the boost phase of the ballistic missile, which is a phase at which multiple warheads and\/or countermeasures have not as yet been deployed. Intercepting a ballistic missile before it can deploy complicated countermeasures and\/or multiple warheads greatly decreases the burden on sensors to distinguish lethal payload object(s) from countermeasures. Boost-phase launches involve having interceptor assets at a location or locations near the expected launch sites of threatening offensive ballistic missiles, sensing the presence of the threat missile soon after launch, calculating its expected trajectory, timely launching interceptor asset(s) to intercept the threat missile, and guiding the interceptor missile to its target. It will be understood that initially, a defender sensing the launch of a ballistic missile does not know exactly when it was launched, the type of missile which has been launched (although there may be some knowledge of the missile types available at the launch site), its mass, thrust, and intended trajectory. In fact, very little is initially known. Unlike engagements of threat missiles in their mid-course phase, where the trajectory of such threat missiles is well defined by Keplerian orbits, uncertainty in the trajectory of a boosting missile is a major challenge in defeating such a threat missile.","Launching against threat missiles in their boost phase requires methods to filter sensor measurements and establish track states, to determine the type of a threat missile, to propagate the threat missile's state into the future, to plan an engagement against the threat missile, and to guide an interceptor to destroy the threat missile. An engagement planner for boost phase interceptor launches must weigh the capability of the interceptor against the uncertainty in the trajectory of the boosting threat missile.","The problem of defense against a boosting threat missile is further exacerbated by the lack of knowledge of the threat missile's trajectory, as one can only plan an interceptor missile launch if one knows which interceptor missile, among several, is in a position from which, and has capabilities such that, it can be expected to make a successful interception. When generalized midcourse guidance according to an aspect of the invention is used for the second stage guidance together with the current 3and 4stage guidance of the SM-3, the SM-3 may be launched against a boosting target missile and can be expected to intercept that missile in its ballistic phase.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["8","12","1","2","1","14","15","13","2","17","17","18","12","15","221","19","25","25","17","17","222","222"],"i":["a ","b","a ","b","a ","b","a ","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["220","221","222","222","225","225","25","25","220","239","240","240","250","252","225","225","221","260","270","272","280","280","290","290","221","220","222","222","295","295","295"],"i":["a ","b","a ","b ","a ","b","a ","b","a ","b","a","b","a","b","a","b ","a","b","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A"],"b":["300","300"]},"The operation of the logic  of  begins with the sensing of a boost phase ballistic missile soon after launch. Sensing immediately at launch is not possible with a surface-based sensor because the curvature of the Earth prevents it from observing the actual launch. The delay between launch and first sensing depends upon the acceleration of the missile, the immediate topology around the launch site and the sensing location, and the distance between the launch site and the sensor location, but may be about 25 seconds or more. An Overhead Non-imaging Infrared (ONIR) sensor, on the other hand, can produce results instantaneously or with only a short delay depending on cloud cover at the launch site. The sensor measurements are represented in  by a block , which produces ONIR sensor signals at an ONIR output port , andor radar measurements at a RADAR output port . The sensor signals, from whatever source, are applied from ports and to a block , which represents a multihypothesis track filter. The multihypothesis track filter  combines a priori knowledge of the characteristics of various possible types of threat missiles with the track data from the sensors, to establish separate estimates of the target hypotheses' states (at least position and velocity) for n possible hypotheses. A multihypothesis track filter maintains separate filters for each hypothesis and uses a priori information about each hypothesis to improve the state estimates for each hypothesis over (by comparison with) a filter that uses no a priori information. One implementation of a multihypothesis filter is U.S. Pat. No. 7,026,980 to Boka et al., entitled \u201cMissile Identification and Tracking System and Method.\u201d The separate estimates consisting of n possible threat\/stage hypotheses appear at output ports , , , . . . , n of the track filter , and are made available to a typing processor represented as a block  and to a target propagator represented as a block . Typing algorithm or block  uses multiple metrics to determine the likelihood that each hypothesis is correct. These likelihoods sum to unity or one, and this summing characteristic is later used to generate weighting factors for each threat hypothesis.","The track filter states from track filter block  of  and the likelihoods from typing block  are applied to a multihypothesis target propagator block . Target propagator block  propagates into the future all those threat hypotheses having likelihoods above a threshold level. In one version of the target propagator, the threshold level is fixed. As illustrated in , target propagator block  produces n-m propagated threat states, where m is the number of hypotheses with likelihoods falling below the threshold. Significant computational resource savings arise from not propagating the low-likelihood threat states. Early in an engagement little track data is available from which the track filter can produce estimated track states, so there is little information on which to base the discarding of hypotheses, so most or all hypotheses are propagated. As more data becomes available from the sensors the typing block  is expected to be able to discount certain hypotheses and to assign low probabilities to other hypotheses.","The propagated multihypothesis threat states from target propagator block  of  are applied to an engagement planner illustrated as a block  together with the likelihood information from typing block . Engagement planner  also receives interceptor missile flyout data or tables from a block illustrated as . Engagement planner  uses a subset of the hypotheses to determine an optimal way to engage the target. In order to conserve computational resources, the engagement planner  ignores those hypotheses having likelihoods below the threshold. The optimal engagement information is coupled from block  to initialize an interceptor guidance processing illustrated as a block .","Interceptor guidance block  of  receives optimal engagement information from block , propagated threat missile states from target propagator block , likelihood information from block , and interceptor state information from a block . The interceptor state information contains information describing the state of the interceptor (such as position, velocity, and acceleration) at the time that the interceptor guidance function block  is entered from block . Interceptor guidance block  estimates the location of the target at the time of intercept in order to compute interceptor guidance commands. Launch and intercept guidance commands are applied from interceptor guidance block  to the interceptor . During the course of an engagement, the target state and hypothesis likelihoods are updated as more information becomes available. The track filter , the target propagator , the engagement planner , and the interceptor guidance  all take advantage of the new data to refine their solutions.","Interceptor guidance block  of  receives interceptor initialization information from engagement planner block , propagated threat missile states for n-m hypotheses from target propagator , and typing information for the n-m hypotheses from typing block .  illustrates the logic or control flow  of guidance stages for the four-stage SM-3 interceptor missile. The processing for this control takes place partially in the interceptor guidance block  of , and partially in the interceptor missile itself. It will be understood that interceptor guidance block  may be at a single location or it may be distributed among a plurality of locations or assets. In , the control begins with a START block , and flows to a block . Block  represents initialization and launch of the interceptor missile. Block  represents first-stage guidance, which may include simply a launch in the general direction of the target missile. The first-stage guidance is controlled in accordance with prior-art techniques, and further generally includes the interceptor missile initially launching straight up, then tilting a prescribed angle away from the ship toward the predicted intercept point (PIP). At the end of the first-stage guidance, the control of logic  of  flows from first-stage guidance block  by way of a transition or path  to a block , which represents the second stage guidance. Details of the second stage guidance are illustrated by the logic of , and incorporates aspects of the invention. When the second stage of propulsion and guidance represented by block  is complete, the logic  of  flows by way of a logic path  to blocks  and . Blocks  and  represent third and fourth-stage guidance, respectively, of the SM-3 as known in the art. The third stage is guided to the updated predicted intercept point using inertial guidance performed by the interceptor missile. Terminal guidance of the SM-3 interceptor missile is performed by the fourth stage kinetic warhead using a modified version of proportional navigation to effect a hit-to-kill intercept of the target missile. The logic  ends following block  when the interceptor missile either hits the target or misses, as suggested by block .","A method according to an aspect of the invention is for guiding a multistage interceptor missile toward a target missile, where the target missile may transition from a boost mode to a ballistic mode during the engagement. The method comprises the steps of tracking the position of the target missile with a sensor to determine its location, generating a pre-interceptor-missile-launch predicted intercept point and predicted intercept time, and loading the predicted intercept point (PIP) and time into the interceptor missile guidance system. The interceptor missile is launched, and the first-stage guidance  of  is controlled at least in response to the target missile bearing and elevation towards the predicted intercept point. A transition is made along path  to the second stage of propulsion of the interceptor missile, as represented by block . Second-stage midcourse guidance of the interceptor missile is controlled in response to second-stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands generated by the processing of block  of , which as mentioned may be at any location, including on the firing Aegis ship. Second-stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands are generated in response to an elevated predicted intercept point. The elevated predicted intercept point is generated by adjusting a predicted intercept point (PIP) to account for the effects of interceptor missile velocity at waypoint, interceptor missile propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint and the PIP. The PIP is generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method working on predicted target missile position, velocity, and acceleration. A transition is made by path  of  to third-stage propulsion of the intercept missile (block ), and the interceptor missile  of  is guided toward an updated predicted intercept point of the target missile. A transition is made to control  of the fourth stage kinetic warhead to effect a hit-to-kill intercept of the target missile.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 4"],"b":["320","360","400"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["(i) The logic  of  starts with the Initialization block . Block  initializes the 2stage guidance using at least information related to the pre-interceptor-missile-launch predicted intercept point (PIP), predicted intercept time, and waypoint, which are outputs from the engagement planner block  described in conjunction with . The steps of estimating an initial PIP, estimating an initial predicted intercept time, and choosing a waypoint are known in the art.","(ii) The Initialization block  then flows into the Elevated PIP via Runge-Kutta block . Block  generates the elevated predicted intercept point by calculating the current estimate of target missile position and velocity at the predicted intercept point (PIP) using the Runge-Kutta integration technique, which uses the current and future predictions of the target missile position, velocity, and acceleration including target missile boost acceleration, and then calculating the elevated predicted intercept point by adjusting the PIP to account for the effects of interceptor missile velocity at waypoint, interceptor missile propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint and the PIP. The Runge-Kutta calculations used to generate a PIP and the additional calculations used to calculate an elevated PIP in block  of  are discussed in conjunction with .","(iii) The Elevated PIP via Runge-Kutta block  then flows into the Intercept Triangle block . It should be understood that while the invention involves aspects of second-stage guidance of the interceptor missile, the purpose of the second-stage guidance is ultimately for hitting the target. Hitting the target requires second-stage guidance which depends upon conditions occurring after the second stage of guidance, as predicted to occur prior to and during the second stage of operation. Thus, second-stage guidance depends upon predicted performance of the later stages of propulsion of the interceptor missile. Block  generates and updates an intercept triangle by calculating the desired direction of the interceptor missile's velocity vector at the waypoint, the time until the PIP, and the elevated PIP, using the average remaining interceptor missile velocity (VMAR) from the waypoint to the PIP, and constructing an intercept triangle with the three vertices defined by the waypoint position of the interceptor missile, the elevated linear target missile position, and the elevated PIP, where the elevated linear target missile position is calculated by taking the product of predicted target missile velocity at PIP and estimated time until PIP, and then subtracting that product from the elevated PIP. The processes and calculations related to Intercept Triangle block  of  are discussed in conjunction with  and .","(iv) The Intercept Triangle block  then flows into the VMAR-to-Intercept block . Block  calculates an updated average remaining missile velocity (VMAR). This velocity is from the missile's waypoint position to the updated elevated PIP, in the time interval between the waypoint and the PIP.","(v) The VMAR-to-Intercept block  then flows into the 2Stage Acceleration Commands block . Block  calculates the second-stage generalized midcourse guidance acceleration commands that will guide the interceptor missile to achieve the desired direction of the interceptor missile's velocity vector at the waypoint, as calculated in block  of . The acceleration commands are calculated using an appropriate guidance law such as the vector gravity-optimized orthogonal navigation algorithm, which calculates interceptor missile acceleration commands that cause the interceptor missile to fly through the prescribed waypoint position with its relative velocity vector pointing in the prescribed direction, as determined by the generalized midcourse guidance (GMCG) system. Guidance laws, such as the vector gravity-optimized orthogonal navigation algorithm, are known in the art.\n\nAs shown in , the 2Stage Acceleration Commands block  flows into the Next Update block . This mode of the method also includes, following the step of generating the initial second-stage GMCG acceleration commands, iteratively repeating the steps in blocks , , , and . Each successive iteration through the GMCG loop may use the updated parameters from the previous iteration.\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["414","509","501","504","501","502","503","501","503","505","511","505","504","503","511","508","507","504","510","508","507","504","505","511","503","506","506","504","504","503","509","503","503"],"sub":["GRAV ","prop\u22a5","GRAV ","prop\u22a5","prop ","V5 ","prop\u2225","prop ","V5 ","GRAV ","prop\u22a5","int","0","0 ","1","0","2","0","N","0","0","int","int",{"sub2":"\u2014"},"clipped ","int"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["T","int"]},{"mi":"t","mn":"0"}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mover":{"mo":"=","mi":"def"},"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"p"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"v"}}]}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","0","0 ","0","n+1","n+1 ","n+1","n+1","n+1","0"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mi":"For"},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"do","mo":":"}}}],"mo":[",",",","\u2062",","],"mn":"1","mi":"\u2026","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","*"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["t","n"]},{"mi":["y","n"]}],"mo":","}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","*"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["t","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["y","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":","}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394t","mo":"*","mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["t","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["y","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":","}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"4"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","*"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["t","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"msub":[{"mi":["y","n"]},{"mi":"k","mn":"3"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":","}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"t","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["t","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"y","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","n"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","6"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"k","mn":"1"},{"mi":"k","mn":"4"}],"mo":["+","+","+"],"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"3"}}]}}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"End","mo":"."}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}]}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["T","int"]},{"mi":"t","mn":"0"}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["int",{"sub2":"\u2014"},"clipped ","int","int","int ","int","int","GRAV","prop\u22a5"],"b":"506"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"p"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"v"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"v"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"a"}}]}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"v"},{"mi":"a","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03bc","Z"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mi":"Z"},"mn":"3"}}},{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"\u00d7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","Z"],"mo":"\u00d7"}}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u00d7"],"mi":["\u03c9","v"]}],"mo":["+","-","-"],"msub":{"mi":["a","thrust"]}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":"thrust","b":["312","316"],"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":["416","600","604","606","615","600","604","615","622","600","604","606","600","615","606","600","604","606","506","603","604","604","603","612","414","614","613","603","615","613","606","601","602","501","502","607","609","507","509","608","508","600","416"],"sub":["L","L","2","L","3","Tint ","int ","Tint","int ","go ","now ","int ","go","int","now","L ","L","Tint","go ","L","L","Tint","go ","V5 ","prop "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4","FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 7"],"b":["416","700","600","700","704","706","715","400","416"],"sub":"L","sup":"nd ","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":"Step 1: Compute"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","T"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["T","\u2032"]}}},{"mi":["V","Tint"]}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["T","\u2032"]}}}},{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mi":["V","Tint"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}]}},"mo":","}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":["\u2003where \u03b8is the angle  lying between the target velocity vector V at the time of intercept and the missile-to-target line-of-sight vector X . The target velocity vector Vat the time of intercept is illustrated in  as an arrow  extending from the elevated linear target position T\u2032  toward the elevated PIP . The interceptor-to-target line-of-sight vector X is illustrated as a line segment  extending between the waypoint  and the elevated linear target position T\u2032 .","Step 2: Compute"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","M"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mi":["V","Tint"]}},"mi":"VMAR"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"sin","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","T"]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":["\u2003where angle \u03b8is the angle  between the line-of-sight vector X  and the desired interceptor missile heading , and where VMAR is the average remaining velocity of the missile along the vector  pointing from the waypoint  to the elevated PIP . The desired missile heading  will be the direction of VMAR, which is the VMAR for the next iteration through the 2stage guidance loop.","Step 3: Compute the closing velocity V, the updated time-to-go Tbetween the current time and the PIP, and the updated intercept time T. The closing velocity is given by V=\u2225V\u2225 cos \u03b8+VMAR cos \u03b8. The updated time-to-go is calculated using the equation"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["T","go"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"msub":{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["T","\u2032"]}}}},"msub":{"mi":["V","c"]}},"mo":"."}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":["\u2003The updated intercept time is calculated using the equation T=T+T.","Step 4: Compute the updated elevated PIP  as Updated Elevated PIP=T\u2032+VT, where T\u2032  is the elevated linear target position, V is the target velocity vector at intercept, and Tis the updated time-to-go calculated in Step 3 above.\n\nThe updated intercept triangle now has vertices at the waypoint , at the updated elevated predicted intercept point (PIP) , and at the elevated linear target position T\u2032 . The desired direction of the interceptor missile's velocity vector at the waypoint  is shown as arrow  pointing from the waypoint  to the updated elevated PIP .\n"]}}}},"When the intercept triangle  has been updated in block  as described in conjunction with , the logic  of  flows from block  to a further block . Block  represents determination of the average missile velocity remaining (VMAR)-to-Intercept. VMAR-to-Intercept block  of  calculates an updated average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) along the path  extending from the missile's waypoint position  to the updated elevated PIP , in the time interval between the waypoint and the updated elevated PIP. VMAR is calculated using the equation",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["VMAR","updated"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["X","ref"]}},"msub":{"mi":["T","go"]}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["go ","ref ","updated "],"b":["726","704","727","724","726","704","727"],"figref":"FIG. 7"},"From block  of , the logic  flows to a Second Stage Acceleration Commands block . Second Stage Acceleration Commands block  calculates the second stage midcourse guidance acceleration commands that will guide the interceptor missile to achieve the desired direction () of the interceptor missile's velocity vector at the waypoint, as calculated in block  of . The acceleration commands are calculated using an appropriate guidance law and will cause the interceptor missile to fly through the prescribed waypoint position with its relative velocity vector pointing in the prescribed direction (), as determined by the generalized midcourse guidance (GMCG) system. The generation of interceptor missile guidance acceleration commands up to Waypoint and determining average remaining velocity is well known to those skilled in the art, and requires no further elaboration. The missile guidance acceleration commands are uplinked to the interceptor missile, as suggested by path  of .","From block , the logic  of  flows back to Elevated PIP block  through Next Update block , iteratively repeating the steps of generating the elevated PIP in block , generating and updating an intercept triangle in block , determining the average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) until intercept in block , and calculating 2stage acceleration commands in block  to send to the interceptor missile. Each successive iteration through the GMCG loop in  may use the updated variables from the previous iteration. The iterations continue until completion of second-stage midcourse guidance, where completion is defined as the reaching of the waypoint by the interceptor missile with the desired flight path angle  calculated by the GMCG system in the Intercept Triangle block  of . The waypoint is illustrated in , , and  by the points , , and , respectively.","A method according to an aspect of the invention is for guiding a multistage interceptor missile () toward a target missile (), where the target missile () may transition from a boost mode to a ballistic mode. The method comprises the step of tracking the position of the target missile () with a sensor () to determine its location. A pre-interceptor-missile-launch predicted intercept point (PIP) and predicted intercept time are generated, and the predicted intercept point (, ) and time are loaded into the interceptor missile () guidance (). The interceptor missile () is launched, and the first-stage guidance () is controlled at least in response to the target missile () bearing and elevation toward the predicted intercept point (, ). The interceptor missile () is transitioned () to the second stage of propulsion, and the second-stage guidance () is controlled in response to second-stage acceleration commands (). The second-stage acceleration commands () are generated in response to an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ). The elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) is generated by adjusting a predicted intercept point (, ) to account for the effects of interceptor missile () velocity at waypoint (, , ), interceptor missile () propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (, ). The predicted intercept point (, ) is generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method () working on predicted target missile () position, velocity, and acceleration. The propulsion of the interceptor missile () is transitioned () to the third stage, and the interceptor missile () performs autonomous, possibly inertial, guidance toward the target missile (). The propulsion of the interceptor missile () is transitioned to a fourth stage. The fourth stage or kinetic warhead may use autonomous guidance (), possibly using information from the ship. The autonomous guidance () of the fourth stage to intercept the target missile () may be a modified version of proportional navigation.","Another mode of the method includes the step of generating the second-stage acceleration commands () in response to an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) generated using the Runge-Kutta integration method. This mode of the method comprises the step () of initialization, the step () of generating an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) via the Runge-Kutta method, the step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle, the step () of calculating the average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) until intercept, and the step () of calculating 2stage acceleration commands. The initialization step () in this mode of the method involves initializing a second-stage midcourse guidance (, ) algorithm with at least the pre-interceptor-missile-launch predicted intercept point (, ), predicted intercept time, and waypoint (, , ). The step () of generating an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) involves calculating the current estimate of target missile () position and velocity at the predicted intercept point (, ) using the Runge-Kutta integration technique, which uses the current and future predictions of the target missile () position, velocity, and acceleration including target missile () boost acceleration, and then creating an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) by adjusting the predicted intercept point (, ) to account for the effects of interceptor missile () velocity at waypoint (, , ), interceptor missile () propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (, ). The step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle (, ) involves calculating the desired direction () of the interceptor missile's () velocity vector at the waypoint (, , ), the time (T) until the predicted intercept point (, ), and the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ), using the average remaining interceptor missile () velocity (VMAR) from the waypoint (, , ) to the predicted intercept point (, ), and constructing the intercept triangle (, ) with the three vertices defined by the waypoint (, , ) position of the interceptor missile (), the elevated linear target missile position (, ), and the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ), where the elevated linear target missile position (, ) is calculated by taking the product of predicted target missile () velocity at the predicted intercept point (PIP , ) and estimated time (T) until the predicted intercept point (PIP , ), and then subtracting that product from the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ). The step () of determining an updated average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) involves calculating the interceptor missile's () velocity from the waypoint (, , ) position to the updated elevated predicted intercept point (), in the time interval between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (PIP , ). The step () of generating the second-stage generalized midcourse guidance acceleration commands involves using an appropriate guidance law such as the vector gravity-optimized orthogonal navigation algorithm, which calculates interceptor missile () acceleration commands that cause the interceptor missile () to fly through the waypoint (, , ) position with its relative velocity vector pointing in the direction () calculated as part of the step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle ().","According to another mode of the method, following the step () of generating second-stage interceptor missile () acceleration commands, iteratively repeating, in order, the step () of generating an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) via the Runge-Kutta method, the step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle, the step () of calculating the average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) until intercept, and the step () of calculating 2stage acceleration commands. Each successive iteration through the GMCG loop may use the updated parameters from the previous iteration. The step () of generating the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) involves calculating the current estimate of target missile () position and velocity at the predicted intercept point (, ) using the Runge-Kutta integration technique, which uses the current and future predictions of the target missile () position, velocity, and acceleration including target missile () boost acceleration, and then creating an elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) by adjusting the predicted intercept point (, ) to account for the effects of interceptor missile () velocity at waypoint (, , ), interceptor missile () propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (, ). The step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle (, ) involves updating the desired direction () of the interceptor missile's () velocity vector at the waypoint (, , ), the time (T) until the predicted intercept point (PIP , ), and the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ), using the average remaining interceptor missile () velocity (VMAR) from the waypoint (, , ) to the predicted intercept point (PIP , ), and constructing the intercept triangle (, ) with the three vertices defined by the waypoint (, , ) position of the interceptor missile (), the elevated linear target missile position (, ), and the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ), where the elevated linear target missile position (, ) is calculated by taking the product of predicted target missile () velocity at the predicted intercept point (PIP , ) and estimated time (T) until the predicted intercept point (PIP , ), and then subtracting that product from the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ). The step () of determining an updated average remaining missile velocity (VMAR) involves calculating the interceptor missile's () velocity from the waypoint (, , ) position to the updated elevated predicted intercept point (), in the time interval between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (PIP , ). The step () of generating the second-stage generalized midcourse guidance acceleration commands involves using an appropriate guidance law such as the vector gravity-optimized orthogonal navigation algorithm, which calculates interceptor missile () acceleration commands that cause the interceptor missile () to fly through the prescribed waypoint (, , ) position with its relative velocity vector pointing in the direction () calculated as part of the step () of generating and updating an intercept triangle ().","In another mode of a method according to an aspect of the invention, the step of generating the elevated predicted intercept point (, , ) from the current target missile () position, velocity, acceleration, and future target missile () acceleration prediction, by integrating current target missile () state to future predicted intercept point (PIP , ), using the Runge-Kutta method, to produce the predicted intercept point (PIP , ), then adjusting the PIP (, ) to account for the effects of interceptor missile () velocity at waypoint (, , ), interceptor missile () propulsion beyond second stage, and gravity between the waypoint (, , ) and the predicted intercept point (PIP , ) to produce the elevated predicted intercept point (, , )."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
