---
title: System and method for managing and optimizing advertising networks
abstract: The system of the present invention is used to execute data consolidation to combine data from Google, MSN and Yahoo, at least. The user does not need anymore to combine by himself data in spreadsheets. The system allows creating consolidated campaigns that span across search providers, letting the user effortlessly build reports that previously took hours to create each month. The system of the present invention is particularly suited for agencies. A tool designed for agencies needs to allow for management at the client level as well as the agency level. The system client center gives each member of the team a summary view of the client accounts that they're responsible for, along with emerging trend indicators for every major metric.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898071&OS=08898071&RS=08898071
owner: Acquisio Inc.
number: 08898071
owner_city: Saint-Lambert
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20091201
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The present patent application claims the benefits of priority of commonly assigned Canadian Patent Application no. 2,659,538, entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Managing and Optimizing Advertising Networks\u201d and filed at the Canadian Patent Office on Mar. 30, 2009.","The invention relates generally to systems and methods for managing advertising networks.","Pay per click advertising permits advertisers to create online advertisements and to bid on keywords they believe are relevant to their target market. When a search query is received that includes the keywords, the advertisement is displayed along with relevant search results for the keywords. The on-screen position of the advertisement depends upon the maximum bid amount specified by the advertiser. Higher bids typically result in better placement of the advertisement. The advertiser only pays if a user clicks on the advertisement.","While pay per click advertising has become extremely popular, it remains difficult for an individual or small business to set up an advertising campaign. Writing content for an advertisement, selecting keywords, setting a budget, and bidding on terms can be a complicated, time consuming process that must be repeated for each search engine advertising network at which the advertisement is placed.","Once an advertising campaign has been created, an advertiser must often spend a considerable amount of time determining the keywords that are generating the most referrals from each search engine and replacing low performing keywords with new terms. This also can be a difficult and time-consuming process, especially if the advertisement is placed on multiple search engine advertising networks. Because the software tools for performing these functions are advertising network specific, advertisers are generally required to master multiple tools or to limit their advertising to only one search engine.","It is with respect to these considerations and others that the disclosure made herein is provided.","With the advent of the Internet, online advertising has become widely popular and commonly used among various businesses. In addition to being cost effective and far reaching, it allows businesses to get more information to potential users than more traditional forms of advertising such as publications and media campaigns. Generally, online advertising includes search engine, desktop, email advertising as well as various other forms. Web based advertising systems are typically measured using certain metrics at different stages of the advertisement presentment and fulfillment process. For example, the number of times an advertisement is shown in measures and typically denoted impressions. Impressions have been based on keywords or content that appears on a site. A click on an advertisement is typically measured as a clickthrus. The advertisement copy typically drives the number of clickthrus. When a viewer takes a desired action on the web site of the advertiser that is often referred to as a conversion. Desired actions typically include sign-up, completion of a survey, and a sale. The cost associated with ads is tracked as costs, and sales as sales.","A multitude of techniques has been developed for measuring the success of advertising campaigns online based on various metrics. These practices often involve determinations of how often users tend to perform desired actions in comparison to costs and various other factors involved. However, these systems generally lack an effective and user-friendly approach to analyzing, visualizing and improving online advertising systems. Accordingly, a need exists for a more efficient way to measure and improve such systems. Further, a need exists for an effective user-friendly interface for online advertising systems.","The system and method of the present invention combine data at least from Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing and Microsoft adCenter into a white-label application. It is to be understood that data from other company or system could be combined.","The system of the present invention allow to:\n\n","The system fills the need for a comprehensive management, optimization and reporting tool for agencies with features like:\n\n","The system of the present invention is particularly suited for agencies. A tool designed for agencies needs to allow for management at the client level as well as the agency level. The system client center gives each member of the team a summary view of the client accounts that they're responsible for, along with emerging trend indicators for every major metric.","The system provides at a glance monitoring of trends at the agency, account, campaign, ad-group and keyword level, offers an invaluable birds-eye view to every level of the team, from account managers to executives.","With the system, the SEM department only needs to learn one simple interface in order to effectively manage and report on multiple campaigns at many different providers, dramatically increasing productivity, and letting your team concentrate on strategy and optimization.","The system of the present invention is used to execute data consolidation to combine data from Google, MSN and Yahoo, at least. The user does not need anymore to combine by himself data in spreadsheets. The system allows creating consolidated campaigns that span across search providers, letting the user effortlessly build reports that previously took hours to create each month.","The system is designed for interactive advertising agencies; it is built from the ground up exclusively for interactive advertising agencies. The data are integrated from Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing and Microsoft Adcenter, at least, into one easy to use management and reporting tool designed specifically to save money, while improving the firm's performance.","Features of the system:\n\n","Benefits of the system:\n\n","Benefit for Users\n\n","Benefits for Manager or Agency Management\n\n","The system is the first software of its kind to offer comprehensive PPC campaign, account and even agency level management. The concept of what bid management software is and should be has evolved tremendously over the past few years. The main cause of change stem from two facts:\n\n","It used to be as simple as viewing the bids around you and finding the gap which allowed you to be in the most desirable position for the least amount of money. Identifying and shifting bids to constantly take advantage of these gaps was the primary purpose of PPC bid management software up until 2003.","PPC Software has had to evolve along with search provider changes. What you bid is no longer the only variable which determines your positioning, but simply one of a handful of important aspects. Effective campaign management requires having an eagle eye on your metrics over time and being able to make changes across ad-copy, bids, landing page copy and other pertinent variables quickly and efficiently.","It is this evolution in mind that drives the development of the system. In addition to powerful tools to help identify weak spots in your campaigns by examining your performance history, we provide an editor much like Google Adwords editor which allows you to manage all of your Google, Yahoo Search Marketing and Microsoft AdCenter accounts from the same place.","Our trends bar helps you keep track of your metrics with ease, giving continuous feedback on how every variable compares with a previous time-frame. If your spend is 7% higher this week than last, this information will be pushed to you as soon as you view your account, no calculators or time consuming work needed.","The system SEARCH is much more than bid management software, its PPC agency management software.","Campaign Optimization","If you've ever spent hours pouring over pay per click campaign data in order to try and optimize a client account, you know how frustrating it can be not knowing what the potential results of your efforts may be.","Take the stress and worry out of pay per click optimization with the system optimizer, a new module included as part of the system which allows for a number of approaches to PPC campaign optimization.","The system PPC campaign optimizer is designed to help you intuitively craft the style of campaign that you want. With the ability to minimize or maximize one of your campaign metrics, and then choose the maintenance levels of the remaining variables, the system campaign optimizer gives you the opportunity to easily see the predicted effects of your changes. PPC campaign optimization differs for the style of advertiser you're managing\u2014and now campaign specific optimization has been made easy for you, for all of your clients.","We study your historical account data to determine which of your keywords are underperforming. Reallocation of this portion of spend can reduce the campaign CPA, while maintaining your chosen percentage of conversions, clicks, and impressions.","Is your advertising client looking for more brand exposure? Branding campaigns require maximum impressions, and achieving this is as simple as choosing to maximize your impressions within the optimization module\u2014remember that within the Google Adwords system keywords need to maintain a healthy number of clicks, as you don't want your quality score to suffer because of a lower click through rate.","Perhaps your client is very CPA focused. If you choose to minimize your cost while maintaining your conversions, you can reduce CPA without compromising the sales they are currently making from the most effective keywords in the campaign.","If instead your client simply wants the most traffic possible with the least cost, simply choose to maximize clicks, and then drag the cost slider down until you've found the perfect optimization.","Report Automation","PPC Report automation is one of the cornerstone features of the system. When we set out to make a PPC management tool designed to help agencies and those who manage more than a single campaign, we knew that reporting was one of the most time consuming tasks that goes into effective management for clients.","The complexities that arise out of advertising campaigns which are split across multiple search providers can often slow the process of report building to a crawl. Gathering cost, impression, click and conversion data from each provider, importing it into spreadsheets, hammering out formula to combine the data in meaningful ways, creating tables, graphs and charts to represent that meaning\u2014and then finally commenting on each element and producing a flawless PDF\u2014all together it's a lot of work that even the most seasoned PPC veteran can consider overwhelming.","Imagine a PPC reporting tool that eliminates all of the grunt work from the above task list. With the system Report Center all you have to do is add the elements you wish to see in your report, write a few comments, and hit the publish button. In a typical advertising agency month-end reporting situation, we have found time dedicated to producing reports may be cut more than 90%.","The system aggregates data from across all of the major PPC providers in the way that you choose. This in combination with our integrated report building tool allows for quick report production right from within the System interface\u2014producing beautiful client-ready PDF files instantly.","The system built-in What You See is What You Get (WYSIWIG) report builder allows almost any chart, data-grid or graph can be quickly added to the pay per click report you're building, on the fly. Simply add the elements you wish to see in the report, then switch to the WYSIWYG reporting tool, drag and drop elements to find the perfect format, add some comments where you see fit, and you're done.","Within the present document, a platform allowing the bidding and buying of pay-per-click advertisement, such as Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing or Bing Ads, is referred as an advertising provider or advertising platform. Such an advertising provider allows an agency or any user to create one or more advertising campaigns.","The features of the present invention which are believed to be novel are set forth with particularity in the appended claims.","A novel system and method for managing and optimizing advertising networks will be described hereinafter. Although the invention is described in terms of specific illustrative embodiment(s), it is to be understood that the embodiment(s) described herein are by way of example only and that the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited thereby.","Bulk Editor",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A to 1K"},"The system and method in accordance with the present invention allows the management and the optimization of the metrics of one or more pay-per-click advertising campaign where advertisement are bought on one or more advertising provider. As an example, an advertiser may optimize during a single operation the buying of advertisement on a plurality of advertising platforms, such as Google AdWords, Yahoo Search Marketing Bing Ads, in a way to maintain the cost as low as possible or to increase the conversion rate. Thus, in the present example, an advertiser benefits from having access to consolidated reports of the advertising campaign on a plurality of advertising platforms.","It's no secret that PPC managers have been craving a tool to help with mass editing of bids, creative, URLs and other campaign elements for years now. Ever since the release of Google's own tool, and understanding the potential of the management style, the desire has been to see a piece of software which spans multiple providers, more than just Google.","Designed with professional Pay-Per-Click marketing experts in mind, the system EDITOR module allows you to filter, search and edit across multiple campaigns, and more importantly, across multiple providers. Do you need to update the ad-copy now that a promo is over? There is no quicker way than logging into System, searching for a part of the ad-copy text, replacing the copy and posting changes.","In addition to daily management tasks, we wanted to create a tool that simplifies the work involved with launching campaigns and adgroups across multiple providers. We use the Google Adwords API, which has a strict terms and conditions when it comes to sharing Google data with other providers. So while we cannot make copying an ad-group or campaign from Google to Yahoo a drag and drop process, we can simplify things down to a few clicks, and a copy and paste.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 1D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 1E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0110"},"figref":"FIG. 1G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 1H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 1I"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 1J"},"Bulk Editor","Campaign Selector Specs (Module: Mass Editor) In order to support the edition of large search engine account (more than 30k-40k keywords), it is suggested to offer to users the ability to pick the ppc campaigns they want to see in the mass editor instead of loading all campaigns at all time. The campaign selector will give the users this flexibility.","Normal Flow\n\n","Sequence Diagrams","Normal sequence\u2014Case #1: A user goes to the mass editor module, chooses an account, chooses a provider account, does some creates, updates and deletes, posts them, as shown in ","Normal sequence\u2014Case #2:","A user goes to the mass editor module, chooses an account, chooses a provider account, does some creates, updates and deletes, selects a different provider account, does some changes and posts them, as shown in .","Special sequence\u2014Case #3:","A user goes to the mass editor module, chooses an account, chooses a provider account, does not perform any changes and then decides to change his selection of campaigns and ad groups using the campaign selector, as shown in .","Special sequence\u2014Case #4:","A user goes to the mass editor module, chooses an account, chooses a provider account, does some creates, updates and deletes and then decides to change his selection of campaigns and ad groups using the campaign selector, as shown in .","Filter","When selecting the campaigns and adgroups\n\n","Nice-to-have filter\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0142"},"figref":["FIG. 2E","FIGS. 2F to 2H","FIG. 2G","FIG. 2H"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0144"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0145"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0146"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0147"},"figref":"FIG. 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 4E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0149"},"figref":"FIG. 4F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0150"},"figref":"FIG. 4G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0151"},"figref":"FIG. 4H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0152"},"figref":"FIG. 4I"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0153"},"figref":"FIG. 4J"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0154"},"figref":"FIG. 4K"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0155"},"figref":"FIG. 4L"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0156"},"figref":"FIG. 4M"},"Bid Rules Engine","The section BID RULES ENGINE of the system allows agencies to manage the price they pay for clicks automatically according to sophisticated business rules they either create from scratch or from templates we supply. They can have the rules executed automatically, or be prepared and await approval. There is also a report to show the impact of changes on the performance of campaigns, similar to Google Finance, with a timeline and inflection points (markers) to show when a rule was executed.  shows the screenshot of the bid rules center.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0158"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0159"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0160"},"figref":"FIGS. 5D to 5L"},"The bid management module let the user specify and activate rules that will perform some actions when some conditions are met. Those actions can be a change in a Max. CPC of a keyword or an ad group. It can also be a change of status of a keyword, ad group or a campaign, or a notification sent by email. The module will support two levels of rules: Agency rules and Account rules. Agency rules will be made available in all accounts while Account rules will be private. Only an agency manager will have the ability to create and edit Agency rules.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0162"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A"]},"An agency manager will have the same use cases as the account manager plus the use cases shown in .","The sequence diagrams for bid management are illustrated in the figures. More particularly, the sequence to create a new rule from scratch (advanced) is shown in . The sequence to create a new rule from a pre-defined rule is shown in . The sequence to create a new rule from an existing rule is shown in .","The main object model is shown in . The object model for bid rule actions is shown in . The object model for data format (agency rule, action and loggin) is shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0166"},"figref":"FIGS. 6I","b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0167"},"figref":"FIG. 6L"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0168"},"figref":"FIGS. 6M","b":["6","6"]},"The system allows the user to manage and report a plurality of providers (for example Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing (Panama edition), and Microsoft AdCenter) and it offers the ability to customize how the user combine data from each, creating his own consolidated campaign containers which can include data from all chosen providers. This allows the user to present campaign data in the way that his client sees their own campaigns, independent of search provider. It also greatly simplifies the process of reporting, as the user no longer have to combine data from each search network manually.","As shown in , the system makes it easy to provide each member of the marketing department with secure, customized access to the individual client accounts that they're responsible for. The account managers or clients can each be issued access to individual or sets of PPC accounts within the system.","Issuing and setting rights couldn't be easier, simply enter the administration panel, set the user's access and authority for each PPC account and send a custom email to the invitee. Upon receipt and activation the new user will have access to the accounts the administrator set during the invitation process.","Those with administrator privileges within the system can edit the access rights of any user at any point in time. Managers can easily and quickly edit access to distinct sets of client accounts for individual account managers. Running your PPC advertising agency has never been easier with the system's advanced management tools at disposal.","As shown in  (Trends Monitor section of the system) the system PPC search engine marketing software features continuous trend monitoring for every level of your pay per click management. This innovative feature allows the user to view aggregate data across ad-groups, campaigns, accounts, PPC providers, and even your entire search engine marketing agency.","When the user first log into the system he is presented with a global, account level trends bar showing: Clicks, Impressions, Click-Through Rate, Average CPC, Spend, Conversions, Conversion Rate, and the overall Cost Per Conversion for your agency, an aggregate of all of your clients, across all of your PPC accounts, across Google, Yahoo and MSN.","By default it is presented a comparison between the most recent 30 days, and the preceding 30 days. The information compares the presented statistics with green arrows indicating positive progress on a metric and red arrows indicating negative progress.","Spotting small weakness in a PPC campaign before they become costly problems is part of the art of professional paid search management, a fact most search engine marketing tools fail to address. The system trends bar can help you see problems as they emerge, and even helps you pin-point the problem area by giving you the same metrics and trend indicators at the campaign level and the ad-group level. Drill down with the campaign browser to see the health of a campaign or ad-group at a glance, and always be confident your client's search marketing campaigns are moving in the right direction.","As shown in  (Bulk Import for Multiple Search Engine Marketing Platforms) the system's search engine marketing solution features quick and simple bulk import functionality. If you maintain a Google MCC account you can import all of your client accounts and campaigns into the system with a few simple clicks. Yahoo and MSN accounts are just as simple to import, and consolidating campaigns across accounts is intuitive and straightforward.","With the system's new multi-engine editor the process of copying one campaign or account from Google to Yahoo or MSN has never been easier. If you're tired of the long, slow process of launching each new PPC account out three times, take the new the system multi-engine editor for a spin today and experience the ease of an editor just like Google Adwords editor, but for all three major PPC providers.","The system is committed to helping each and every one of our clients through the process of importing and consolidating the campaigns in their client accounts. One of the most powerful features of the the system search engine marketing solution is the ability to virtually join together advertising campaigns across different PPC service providers. Your dedicated account manager at the system will assist you in this process, giving you the freedom to build reports across search provider, the way your clients see their campaigns.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0180"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A to 10E"},"It's no secret that PPC managers have been craving a tool to help with mass editing of bids, creatives, URLs and other campaign elements for years now. Ever since the release of Google's own tool, and understanding the potential of the management style, the desire has been to see a piece of software which spans multiple providers, more than just Google.","Designed with professional Pay-Per-Click marketing experts in mind, the system EDITOR allows you to filter, search and edit across multiple campaigns, and more importantly, across multiple providers. Do you need to update the ad-copy now that a promo is over? There is no quicker way than logging into the system, searching for a part of the ad-copy text, replacing the copy and posting changes.","In addition to daily management tasks, we wanted to create a tool that simplifies the work involved with launching campaigns and adgroups across multiple providers. We use the Google Adwords API, which has a strict terms and conditions when it comes to sharing Google data with other providers. So while we cannot make copying an ad-group or campaign from Google to Yahoo a drag and drop process, we can simplify things down to a few clicks, and a copy and paste.","If you're looking for that little something more that the Google Adwords Editor just doesn't seem to have, try the system EDITOR\u2014Part of the suite of tools that comes with the worlds leading multi-platform, multi-account PPC management tool, the system SEARCH.","While illustrative and presently preferred embodiment(s) of the invention have been described in detail hereinabove, it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except insofar as limited by the prior art."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and other objects, features and advantages of the invention will become more readily apparent from the following description, reference being made to the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A to 1K"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIGS. 2E to 2H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A to 4M"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A to 5L"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A to 6O"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A to 8H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIGS. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A to 10E"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
