---
title: Elimination of unfavorable outflow margin
abstract: A panel for use in a gas turbine engine exhaust case is disclosed. The panel has an airfoil section and a flow diverting structure adjacent a leading edge, wherein the flow diverting structure directs fluid flow into an area of the airfoil that lacks sufficient internal pressure for cooling fluid flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713909&OS=08713909&RS=08713909
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08713909
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090304
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The U.S. Government has a paid-up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract Number N00019-02-C-3003 awarded by United States Navy.","This invention relates generally to gas turbine engines and more particularly to elimination of unfavorable outflow margins in turbine exhaust cases.","For particular operations, particularly in military operations, it is desirable to have aircraft with conventional take-off and landing (CTOL) capabilities, and short take-off vertical landing (STOVL) capabilities. CTOL requires conventional thrusting of the aircraft in the horizontal direction, while STOVL requires thrusting of the aircraft in vertical and intermediate directions. Some dual capability aircraft designs thus employ variable direction exhaust ducts for directing thrust produced by the exhaust nozzle in both the horizontal and vertical directions. Variable direction exhaust ducts typically comprise multiple co-axial exhaust duct segments having angled junctions, whereby the segments can be rotated with respect to each other to redirect the direction of thrust.","In STOVL applications, the lift-fan and roll-posts and the exhaust nozzle work in unison to develop vertical thrust in a powered-lift mode during short take-off\/landing segment of the flight (STOVL-PL). The internal engine modules that distribute the flow inside the engine are driven by a dual-spool configuration with high and low-pressure turbines. After the low pressure turbine, the turbine exhaust case (TEC) is one of the last modules in the engine and functions to condition the gas flow before exiting through the exhaust, in either power-lift (STOVL-PL) or during augmentation at up-and-away (STOVL-UAA) flight modes.","In current designs, TEC panels have a local outer region which lacks sufficient internal static pressure for the air flow to discharge into the external gas path via film cooling holes that characterize local TEC design porosity. In turn, insufficient internal pressure leads to a negative outflow-margin in a critical region towards the TEC outer diameter (OD) clockwise (CW) side of the panel. Externally, the gas flow approaches the TEC airfoil at an angle that, upon impact, creates a \u201cbow wave\u201d that surrounds a region that covers the CW side of the vane with high external pressure levels. Simultaneously, if there are decrements to the internal pressure levels, the internal-to-external pressure difference decreases leading to an inflow condition or negative outflow margin.","As the internal cooling flow passes through fan duct blocker in the supply duct before turning into the TEC, a series of pressure drops occurs due to action of roll-post and fan duct blocker flow area variation, particularly during powered-lift. This decreases TEC internal pressure leading to inflow conditions at the TEC critical areas, as is known in the art.","Thermally, and as a consequence of negative outflow margin, the TEC metal temperatures increase to a point closely related to the material limit range of 645-705 degrees Celsius, depending on mechanical stress. This can lead to damage or failure of the TEC panel and airfoils, thus resulting in costly repair or replacement of the TEC panel. Thus, a better system for cooling the critical areas of TEC panels is desirable.","In one embodiment, a panel for use in a gas turbine engine exhaust case that has a cooling bypass fluid flowing adjacent the exhaust case is disclosed. The panel has an airfoil section and a flow diverting structure adjacent a leading edge, wherein the flow diverting structure directs cooling bypass fluid flow into an area of the airfoil that lacks sufficient internal pressure for cooling fluid flow.","In another embodiment, a turbine exhaust case is disclosed. The turbine exhaust case has a forward outer diameter ring, a forward inner diameter ring, an outer diameter case attached to the outer diameter ring, an inner diameter case attached to the inner diameter ring, a flame tube attached to an aft end of the inner diameter case, and a plurality of airfoils mounted between the inner diameter case and outer diameter case. A bypass cooling fluid travels adjacent the outer diameter case. At least one of the plurality of airfoils has a flow diverting structure adjacent the leading edge and the outer diameter ring. The flow diverting structure directs bypass cooling fluid flow into an area of the airfoil that lacks sufficient internal pressure for cooling fluid flow.","In yet another embodiment, a method of reducing unfavorable outflow margin in the cooling flow of a turbine exhaust case is disclosed. Turbine exhaust gases are directed to a plurality of hollow airfoils within the turbine exhaust case. A cooling bypass flow is directed to a radial outer side of the turbine exhaust case. A flow diverting structure is provided adjacent a leading edge of one of the plurality of hollow airfoils. The flow diverting structure directs fluid flow into an area of the airfoil that lacks sufficient internal pressure for cooling fluid flow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","12","10","12","14","16","18","20","20","22","24","26","18","12","18","18","22"]},"Three bearing swivel duct (3BSD)  directs the thrust of power plant  in the x direction when in configuration A (as shown by 3BSD  in solid lines). 3BSD  is adjustable to redirect the thrust of power plant  in the y direction when in configuration B (as shown by 3BSD  in dashed lines). 3BSD  is also be used to produce thrust in intermediate directions. Nozzle  increases and focuses the thrust produced by power plant  and is secured to the tail end of 3BSD . 3BSD  is used in configuration A during traditional take off and flight operations of aircraft  in the x direction. 3BSD  is positioned in intermediate directions to facilitate short take-off operations. 3BSD  is positioned in configuration B to assist lift fan  in vertical landing operations.","Lift fan  is selectively driven by power plant  through lift fan shaft , and is used to produce thrust in the y direction near the forward portion of aircraft . With 3BSD  producing thrust near the aft portion of aircraft , lift fan  and power plant  control the pitch of aircraft . During vertical landing operations, control ducts A and B redirect a portion of the thrust produced by power plant  in the y direction underneath the wings, at a location away from the axis on which power plant  and lift fan  produce thrust in the y direction. Control ducts A and B are selectively engaged to balance the roll of aircraft  during vertical landing and take-off operations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","30","30","32","34","36","32","32","38","32","34","40","36","42","34","36","40","42"]},"Tie rods  secure the turbine exhaust case to the rest of the engine assembly. Turbine exhaust case  supports aft bearing  of the engine through bearing support . Exhaust gases E leave last turbine stage  and enter turbine exhaust case . At the opposite end of turbine exhaust case , augmentor spray bar  may be attached adjacent panel , which along with flameholders, are axially located between the turbines and an exhaust nozzle at a downstream end of the combustion zone for injecting additional fuel when desired during reheat, thrust augmentation, or afterburning operation for burning in the augmentor combustor for producing additional thrust.","Radially outward of turbine exhaust case  and outer engine case  is bybass flow passage . Bypass flow fluid F, typically air, enters the front of power plant  and travels adjacent the compressor and turbines and is bled off to cool the various components of engine . Fluid F is also used to cool the components of turbine exhaust case , including panel . Typically, air enters panel  and flows through the hollow airfoil between the iso-grids . Fluid then exits cooling holes in panel  to create a film cooling effect on the outer surfaces of the airfoil of panel . A local outer area, depicted by line , is a critical area requiring cooling. To assure adequate cooling fluid flow in the area, a flow diverting structure may be installed adjacent this area.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","34","36","32","30","32","30","34","40","36","42","32","34","36","32","66","68","70","72","66","68","70","72","74","66","70","71","66","68","32"]},"Augmentor spray bar  is connected adjacent trailing edge  of panel  at an acute angle to suction side . In one embodiment, spray bar  contains a box structure surrounding the spray nozzles, and has an extension that acts as a flameholder for the exhaust augmentation of engine . Flame tube ring  is connected to the aft end of inner case , and extends to join tailcone . In order to reduce the problem of negative margin outflow, panel  contains a flow diverting structure adjacent leading edge .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["32","32","70","72","52","72","76","78","76","32","30","12","78","32","80","82","32","34","36","30"]},"Also illustrated in  are iso-grid supports . In this embodiment, the iso-grids , , and contain an arcuate portion adjacent the radially outer edge and leading edge , which act to divert flow of fluid passing through the interior of panel , and are the flow diverting structures previously referred to. Additionally, portions of the iso-grids that would normally be present and transverse to , , and have been eliminated. This creates a more open area for fluid flow, and thus reducing a cause of negative margin outflow, which may affect proper cooling of critical area . Cooling fluid can more easily enter the hollow airfoil and exit film cooling holes  to provide cooling of panel . This design allows for greater fluid flow without compromising the structural integrity of panel . Although illustrated as being in the critical area, this new arrangement of iso-grids  can be expanded to any portion of panel .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["30","32","90","30","32","90","90","90","32","34","56","32","90","32"]},"As illustrated in , fluid scoop  is connected to flow inhibitor . Flow inhibitor  is a rigid structure  that prevents the through flow of fluid within panel . The combination of fluid scoop  and flow inhibitor  provide internal pressure recovery for panel  in area adjacent flow inhibitor . In the embodiment illustrated, flow inhibitor  is comprised of two legs that form a right angle. In other embodiments, flow inhibitor  may be a straight piece running at an angle through panel , or may be an arcuate segment. Flow inhibitor  may entirely close off all fluid flow in panel . In an alternate embodiment, flow inhibitor  permits a limited flow of fluid in the area adjacent flow inhibitor .","With either of the above embodiments for a flow diverting device (fluid scoop  or arcuate isogrids -), sufficient internal static pressure is created in critical area . The flow diverting devices prevent insufficient internal pressure that leads to a negative outflow margin in panel .","With the above embodiments of a TEC panel with a flow diverting structure, a method of reducing unfavorable outflow margin in the cooling flow of a turbine exhaust case is possible. First, turbine exhaust gases are directed to a plurality of hollow airfoils within the turbine exhaust case. Next, cooling bypass flow is directed to a radial outer side of the turbine exhaust case. A flow diverting structure is then provided adjacent a leading edge of one of the plurality of hollow airfoils. The flow diverting structure directs fluid flow into an area of the airfoil that lacks sufficient internal pressure for cooling fluid flow. This flow diverting structure may be either a fluid scoop as described, a modification of the iso-grid supports as described, or a combination thereof.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
