---
title: Management of response to triggering events in connection with monitoring fugitive emissions
abstract: A method for verifying whether a technician is accurately monitoring one or more Leak Detection And Repair (LDAR) components. The method includes receiving a request to display an assignment. The assignment lists one or more LDAR components to be monitored in one or more areas. The assignment also lists one or more artificial LDAR components that do not exist in the areas. After receiving the request to display the assignment, the method includes displaying the assignment and receiving information regarding one of the artificial LDAR components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751173&OS=08751173&RS=08751173
owner: LDARtools, Inc.
number: 08751173
owner_city: Dickinson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090511
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/692,764, filed Mar. 28, 2007, and now U.S. Pat. No. 7,657,384. The aforementioned related patent application is incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","Implementations of various technologies described herein generally relate to monitoring fugitive emissions and management of response to triggering events in connection with monitoring fugitive emissions.","2. Description of the Related Art","The following descriptions and examples do not constitute an admission as prior art by virtue of their inclusion within this section.","Industrial plants that handle volatile organic compounds (VOCs) sometimes experience unwanted emissions of those compounds into the atmosphere from point sources, such as smokestacks, and non-point sources, such as valves, pumps, and\/or vessels containing the VOCs. Emissions from non-point sources typically occur due to leakage of the VOCs from joints and\/or seals and may be referred to herein as \u201cfugitive emissions\u201d. Fugitive emissions from control valves typically occur as leakage through the packing set around the valve stem. Control valves used in demanding service conditions involving large temperature fluctuations and frequent movements of the valve stem commonly suffer accelerated deterioration of the valve stem packing set.","The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated regulations specifying maximum permitted leakage of certain hazardous air pollutants, such as benzene, toluene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, from certain components, e.g., control valves, pump seals, compressor agitators, valves, pipe connectors and the like. As such, the regulations require facility operators to perform periodic surveys of the emissions from these components. The survey interval frequency may be monthly, quarterly, semiannual, or annual. If the facility operator can document that a certain percentage of the components with excessive leakage are below a prescribed minimum, the required surveys become less frequent. Thus, achieving a low percentage of leaking valves reduces the number of surveys required per year, which may result in large cost savings.","In addition to conducting the surveys, facility operators may be required to comply with an array of regulatory, safety and commercial parameters. For example, facility operators may be required to repair identified leaks on the components and generate reports with proper codes in compliance regulatory, safety and commercial parameters. As another example, facility operators may be required to maintain proper calibration on the toxic vapor analyzers used to monitor the leakage. Most, if not all, of the surveys and compliance are typically performed manually by technicians. Unfortunately, due to the wide array of compliance parameters, some of these parameters are often not met.","Implementations of various technologies described herein are directed to a method for managing a response to a triggering event in connection with a fugitive emissions monitor of a component.","In one implementation, a computer application may be used to verify whether a technician is accurately monitoring one or more Leak Detection And Repair (LDAR) components. In order to verify whether the technician is accurately monitoring the LDAR components, the computer application may first receive a request from the technician to display an assignment. The assignment may list one or more LDAR components to be monitored in one or more areas. The assignment may also list one or more artificial LDAR components that do not exist in the areas. After receiving the request to display the assignment, the computer application may display the assignment, and it may then receive information regarding one of the artificial LDAR components.","In another implementation, the computer application may receive a request from a technician to display an assignment for monitoring one or more actual LDAR components that exist in one or more areas. Upon receiving the request, the computer application may add one or more artificial LDAR components to the assignment. The computer application may then display the assignment which may include the actual LDAR components and the artificial LDAR components. After displaying the assignment, the computer application may receive information regarding at least one of the artificial LDAR components from the technician.","In another implementation, the computer application may receive a request from the technician to display an assignment for monitoring one or more actual LDAR components that exist in one or more areas. Upon receiving the request, the computer application may display the assignment to the technician. While the computer program is displaying the assignment, it may modify the assignment to include one or more artificial LDAR components that do not exist in the areas. The computer application may then receive information pertaining to one of the artificial LDAR components.","The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore, the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.","The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent \u201cclaims\u201d found in any issued patent herein.","The following paragraphs generally describe one or more implementations of various techniques directed to managing a response to a triggering event in connection with a fugitive emissions monitor. In one implementation, a user, such as a technician, may use a probe to obtain an air sample from a component. The air sample may be transferred to a toxic vapor analyzer, which may then analyze, determine a parts per million (PPM) level corresponding to the air sample, convert the PPM level to a binary signal and send the signal to a handheld personal computer (PC), which contains a triggering event monitoring program. The triggering event monitoring program may then determine whether the binary signal qualifies as a triggering event. If it does, then the event monitoring program will display a message on the handheld PC indicating the triggering event and the steps that need to be taken to remedy the triggering event.","In another implementation, the technician may receive an assignment that lists one or more components in which the technician is assigned to monitor. In one implementation, one or more artificial components may be added to the technician's assignment. The artificial components are fictitious components that do not actually exist. As such, the triggering event monitoring program may use the artificial components to determine whether a particular technician is properly monitoring the assigned components. For instance, if a technician monitors any of the artificial components, the triggering event monitoring program may display a message to the technician to stop monitoring the components and to report to his supervisor. However, if the technician indicates to the triggering event monitoring program that the artificial components do not exist, then the triggering event monitoring program may display a message to the technician commending him for his diligent work. In one implementation, the message may be displayed after the technician monitors all of the components listed in the assignment. In another implementation, the triggering event monitoring program may generate a report detailing the results of the technician's inputs while the technician monitors the components listed in his assignment. Here, the report may be displayed to the technician's supervisor after the technician monitors all of the components listed in his assignment. The report may be presented at this time to prevent the technician from knowing which component is an artificial component and to prevent the technician from destroying a record of him monitoring the artificial component. In one implementation, the report may also be accessed by the technician's supervisor at any time by entering a password into the triggering event monitoring program.","The various technologies and techniques for managing a response to a triggering event in connection with a fugitive emissions monitor in accordance with various implementations are described in more detail with reference to  in the following paragraphs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","100","10","10","10","20","20","10","20"]},"The handheld PC  may be in communication with a toxic vapor analyzer , which may be configured to detect volatile organic chemicals, emissions gases, nitroaromatics, chemical warfare agents and the like. In one implementation, the toxic vapor analyzer  is TVA-1000 available from The Foxboro Company out of Massachusetts, USA or Phx21 available from Environmental Analytics Inc out of Texas, USA. However, it should be understood that some implementations may use other types of toxic vapor analyzers. The toxic vapor analyzer  may include a probe  for receiving an air sample from a component , such as control valves, pump seals and the like. The toxic vapor analyzer  may be in communication with the handheld PC  through a wireless network, which may include Bluetooth technology, Spread Spectrum, Broadband, Wi-Fi and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","10","221","222","223","222","221","10","223","222","224","225","226","10","224"]},"The computer system  may further include a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk, a magnetic disk drive  for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk , such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive , the magnetic disk drive , and the optical disk drive  may be connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface , and an optical drive interface , respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer system .","Although the computer system  is described herein as having a hard disk, a removable magnetic disk  and a removable optical disk , it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system  may also include other types of computer-readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example, such computer-readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non-volatile, and removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM, ROM, erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD), or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM  or RAM , including an operating system , a fugitive emissions management program , fugitive emissions parameters , fugitive emissions recordings  and calibration records . The operating system  may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer, such as Windows\u00ae XP, Mac OS\u00ae X, Unix-variants (e.g., Linux\u00ae and BSD\u00ae), and the like. The fugitive emissions management program  may be configured to manage the fugitive emissions parameters , the fugitive emissions recordings  and the calibration records . The fugitive emissions parameters  may be based on client specifications, safety hazards parameters, risk management parameters and regulatory\/compliance protocols. The calibration records  may include calibration records for toxic vapor analyzers.","A user may enter commands and information into the computer system  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device . The input devices may be connected to the CPU  through a serial port interface  coupled to system bus , but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter .","Further, the computer system  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . Although the remote computer  is illustrated as having only a memory storage device , the remote computer  may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and the Internet, such as local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) .","When using a LAN networking environment, the computer system  may be connected to the local network  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer system  may include a modem , wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer system , or portions thereof, may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","The remote computer  may be another personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node. In one implementation, the remote computer  may be the handheld PC  described with reference to . As such, the handheld PC  may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system . For example, in , the handheld PC  is illustrated as having a CPU , a system memory  and a system bus  that couples various system components to the CPU . The system memory  may include a read only memory (ROM)  and a random access memory (RAM) . The handheld PC  may further include a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk. The hard disk drive  may be connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface . One difference between the computer system  and the handheld PC  is the various programs stored in memory. For example, the handheld PC  may include a fugitive emissions monitoring program  and a triggering event monitoring program . The fugitive emissions monitoring program  may be configured to identify the various components to be tested and accept readings from the toxic vapor analyzer . The triggering event monitoring program  may be configured to manage responses to triggering events. The operation of the fugitive emissions monitoring program  and a triggering event monitoring program  will be described in more detail in the following paragraphs with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","320"]},"At step , a signal may be received by the handheld PC  from the toxic vapor analyzer . The signal may be generated by the toxic vapor analyzer  in response to receiving an air sample collected by the probe . Further, the signal may be transmitted wirelessly from the toxic vapor analyzer  to the handheld PC . The air sample may be collected from a leak interface on a component, such as a control valve, pump seal and the like. In one implementation, upon receipt of the air sample, the toxic vapor analyzer  may analyze the air sample, determine a parts per million (PPM) level for the air sample, convert the PPM level to a binary signal and send the binary signal to the triggering event monitoring program . The triggering event monitoring program  may then forward the binary signal to the fugitive emissions monitoring program .","At step , a determination is made as to whether the received signal qualifies as a triggering event. If the signal is determined as a triggering event, then the monitoring process is stopped and a message with a set of actions to remedy the triggering event may be displayed (step ). In one implementation, the triggering event monitoring program  may communicate with the fugitive emissions monitoring program  to halt the monitoring process. At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may prompt a user, such as a technician, to confirm that the actions displayed in the previous step have been performed. At step , the monitoring process may be resumed. The triggering event monitoring program  may communicate with the fugitive emissions monitoring program  to resume the monitoring process.","In one implementation, if the received binary signal does not qualify as a triggering event, then the triggering event monitoring program  forwards the binary signal to the fugitive emissions monitoring program , which records the date, time and the corresponding PPM reading of the binary signal. On the other hand, if the received binary signal qualifies as a triggering event, then the triggering event monitoring program  forwards the actions that have been performed to remedy the triggering event to the fugitive emissions monitoring program  along with the binary signal.","The following table illustrates a number of triggering events, messages corresponding to those triggering events and a set of actions to remedy those triggering events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Triggering Event","Message","Actions"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PPM level corresponding ","Leak!","Specific steps based on"]},{"entry":["to signal exceeds a","Report leak","client location and"]},{"entry":["predetermined PPM level,",{},"specifications"]},{"entry":["e.g., 500 PPM",{},{}]},{"entry":["No signal from toxic ","toxic vapor analyzer","Look for flame out, dead"]},{"entry":["vapor analyzer","malfunction","battery of toxic vapor"]},{"entry":[{},{},"analyzer, Hrefill"]},{"entry":["Background PPM level","Background PPM ","Notify client\/supervisor "]},{"entry":["exceeds a predetermined","level exceeds ","and obtain signature"]},{"entry":["value","maximum value",{}]},{"entry":["Exceeds a predetermined","Leak!","Notify client\/supervisor "]},{"entry":["PPM level, e.g.,","Report leak","and obtain signature"]},{"entry":["10,000 PPM, for HRVOC",{},{}]},{"entry":["PPM level of a","Notify client\/","Notify client\/supervisor "]},{"entry":["predetermined number of","supervisor","and obtain signature"]},{"entry":["components is below a",{},{}]},{"entry":["predetermined value",{},{}]},{"entry":["A number of components ","Leaks!","Stop monitoring"]},{"entry":["in an area of a facility have","Report to client\/","Report to client\/"]},{"entry":["exceeded a predetermined","supervisor","supervisor"]},{"entry":"PPM level"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","510","520","500","530","540","550","500","550","510"]},"In one implementation, referring back to step , the triggering event monitoring program  may receive a manual input from the technician, rather than a signal from the toxic vapor analyzer . The manual input may be based on an observation by the technician. Examples of such observation include audio visual olfactory (AVO) detection, open-ended line (OEL) detection, leaker tag, an alarm and the like. For such examples, the actions to remedy the triggering events may include requiring some input regarding the type and location of the observation, sending a notification to the client\/supervisor and obtaining a signature.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["600","610","620","600","610","630","620","620"]},"In another implementation, referring back to step , in lieu of making a determination of a triggering event based on a signal from the toxic vapor analyzer , a determination of the triggering event may be made based on the component monitored by the technician.  illustrates a flow diagram of a method for verifying whether a technician is accurately monitoring one or more components listed in the technician's assignment in accordance with various techniques described herein. The following description of method  is made with reference to technician , the handheld PC , the triggering event monitoring program , and one or more components  of  in accordance with one or more implementations of various techniques described herein. Additionally, it should be understood that while the operational flow diagram indicates a particular order of execution of the operations, in some implementations, certain portions of the operations might be executed in a different order.","In one implementation, the technician  may be assigned to monitor the components  in an area that may include all or part of an industrial plant. Within the area, there may be one or more major equipments. Examples of major equipments include pumps, compressors, exchangers, tanks and vessels. The major equipment may contain one or more components  located on the equipment itself. The components  may include valves, pumps, compressors, connectors, flanges, and other devices that can be found on the major equipment at industrial plants. In one implementation, the handheld PC  may be used by the technician  to record information pertaining to the components . The components  may include Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) components.","At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may receive a request from the technician  using the handheld PC  to download an assignment for that particular day. The assignment may list the components  that the technician  may be assigned to monitor for that day. In one implementation, the assignment may be stored on a database that may be accessed by the handheld PC .","At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may add one or more artificial components into the assignment. The artificial components may be represented by identifications or names for components in the assignment, but the identifications or names do not correspond to actual components  that exist in an area. These artificial components may be used to verify whether the technician is accurately monitoring the components  listed on the downloaded assignment. In one implementation, the artificial components may be randomly inserted into the technician's assignment prior to when the assignment was downloaded, or they may be inserted into the technician's assignment at random times while the technician is monitoring the components .","Upon reaching a component , the technician  may be required to monitor and record one or more readings or measurements from the component . Since the artificial component does not actually exist, the technician  should not be able to record a monitoring event for the artificial component. Therefore, at step , the triggering event monitoring program  may receive either false information for the artificial component, no information for the artificial component, or a notification that the artificial component cannot be located.","If the technician  enters information for the artificial component, the triggering event monitoring program  may determine that the technician is not properly monitoring the components  listed in his assignment because the artificial component does not exist. Upon receiving the information for the artificial component, the triggering event monitoring program  may proceed to step . At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may display a message to stop monitoring the components  and to report to his supervisor. In one implementation, the triggering event monitoring program  may display the message only after the technician  monitors all of the components  listed in his assignment. In another implementation, the triggering event monitoring program  may not display a message to the technician  at all. Instead, the triggering event monitoring program  may send a message to the technician 's supervisor after the technician  has monitored all of the components  listed in his assignment.","Referring back to step , if the technician  does not enter information for the artificial component, the triggering event monitoring program  may proceed to step . At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may display an approval message that may commend the technician  for working diligently. The message may also prompt the technician  to continue working through his assignment.","Likewise, at step , the triggering event monitoring program  may receive an input from the technician  explaining that he was unable to locate the artificial component. In this case, the triggering event monitoring program  may again proceed to step  and display a message thanking the technician  for working carefully. At step , the triggering event monitoring program  may display the message to the technician  after the technician  has monitored all of the components  listed in his assignment. In one implementation, the triggering event monitoring program  may send a message to the technician 's supervisor describing the technician 's diligent work, as opposed to displaying the message to the technician .","In one implementation, instead of displaying a message to the technician  as described in steps  and , the triggering event monitoring program  may store the results of the technician 's inputs in a report that may be displayed to the technician 's supervisor after the technician  monitors all of the components  listed in his assignment. The report may also be displayed to the technician 's supervisor at the end of a work day, even if the technician  did not monitor all of the components listed in the assignment. The report may be used to prevent the technician  from realizing that he has inaccurately monitored the artificial component, and it may also be used to prevent the technician  from destroying a record of him monitoring the artificial component.","In another implementation, the results of the technician 's inputs may be displayed by the triggering event monitoring program  upon receiving a password. The password may be known to the supervisor but not the technician  such that the supervisor may verify that the technician  is accurately monitoring the assigned LDAR components.","In another implementation, referring back to step , in lieu of making a determination of a triggering event based on a signal from the toxic vapor analyzer , a determination of the triggering event may be made based on time. The following table provides examples of triggering events based on time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Triggering Event","Message","Actions"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Monitoring time for a","Monitoring time exceeds","Report excess "]},{"entry":["component exceeds a","maximum time","time"]},{"entry":["predetermined amount of",{},{}]},{"entry":["time",{},{}]},{"entry":["Deployment time exceeds","Deployment time exceeds","Report excess "]},{"entry":["a predetermined amount of","maximum time","time"]},{"entry":["time",{},{}]},{"entry":["Allotted time to obtain a","Time to obtain work permit","Report excess "]},{"entry":["work permit exceeds a","exceeds maximum time","time"]},{"entry":["predetermined amount of",{},{}]},{"entry":["time",{},{}]},{"entry":["Allotted time for lunch or","Lunch or break time","Report excess "]},{"entry":["break exceeds a","exceeds maximum time","time"]},{"entry":["predetermined amount of",{},{}]},{"entry":"time"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In yet another implementation, the determination of the triggering event may be based on climate, e.g., temperature. For example, a message may be displayed to the user with instructions to avoid a heat stroke or a frost bite. In this implementation, the user may be asked to provide information regarding the climate conditions. The triggering event monitoring program may then display certain steps to be taken to remedy the climate conditions.","In still yet another implementation, the triggering event monitoring program  may be configured to determine whether the toxic vapor analyzer  has been properly calibrated. As such, at the beginning of each day, the calibration record of the toxic vapor analyzer  may be transmitted wirelessly to the handheld PC . The triggering event monitoring program  may then determine whether the calibration record meets the calibration requirements for that particular toxic vapor analyzer . If it is determined that the calibration record does not meet the calibration requirements, then the triggering event monitoring program  may display a message indicating to the technician that the toxic vapor analyzer  has not been properly calibrated and the steps that need to be taken to properly calibrate the toxic vapor analyzer .","In other implementations, the triggering event monitoring program  may be configured to confirm a number of factors or events associated with the toxic vapor analyzer  or the fugitive emissions monitor. The table below provides a number of possible events that may be determined using the triggering event monitoring program .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Triggering Events","Message","Actions"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Technician selects a toxic","Select toxic vapor ","Prevent technician "]},{"entry":["vapor analyzer that does","analyzer with PID ","from using selected "]},{"entry":["not include PID mode if","capabilities.","analyzer"]},{"entry":["needed for assigned",{},{}]},{"entry":["components.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Drift assessment for toxic","Improper drift ","Recalibrate toxic "]},{"entry":["vapor analyzer does not","assessment","vapor analyzer for "]},{"entry":["match requirements",{},"proper drift"]},{"entry":[{},{},"assessment"]},{"entry":["Technician attempts to","End-of-day drift","Perform drift "]},{"entry":["transfer monitoring data","assessment is required","assessment"]},{"entry":["before conducting an end-","before transferring",{}]},{"entry":["of-day drift assessment.",{},{}]},{"entry":["No receipt of signal","No technician code","Enter technician code"]},{"entry":["corresponding to",{},"prior to deployment"]},{"entry":["technician code",{},{}]},{"entry":["No input for confirming","Date\/time on handheld ","Confirm date\/time on"]},{"entry":["date\/time on handheld PC","PC must be confirmed ","handheld PC"]},{"entry":[{},"before deployment",{}]},{"entry":["No input for confirming","No toxic vapor ","Enter toxic vapor "]},{"entry":["toxic vapor analyzer","analyzer ID","analyzer ID before "]},{"entry":["identification number",{},"deployment"]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Obtain signature of "]},{"entry":["located in a confined","protocol for monitoring","their fire watch."]},{"entry":["space","components in confined",{}]},{"entry":[{},"spaces",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that is difficult to monitor","protocol for monitoring","standards"]},{"entry":[{},"difficult to monitor",{}]},{"entry":[{},"component",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that requires a ladder","protocol for monitoring","standards"]},{"entry":[{},"components with a ",{}]},{"entry":[{},"ladder",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that requires a man lift","protocol for monitoring ","standards"]},{"entry":[{},"with a man lift",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that requires a crane","protocol for monitoring ","standards"]},{"entry":[{},"with a crane",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that requires a scaffold","protocol for monitoring ","standards"]},{"entry":[{},"with a scaffold.",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Display site specific","Confirm protocol"]},{"entry":["that requires a harness","protocol for monitoring ","standards"]},{"entry":["and lanyard","with a harness and ",{}]},{"entry":[{},"lanyard.",{}]},{"entry":["Selection of a component","Component need","Confirm location and"]},{"entry":["that was previously","resolution","status of component"]},{"entry":["labeled as difficult to find",{},{}]},{"entry":["(DTF) and determined as",{},{}]},{"entry":["a triggering event",{},{}]},{"entry":["Tech is injured","Display site specific","Record type of first "]},{"entry":[{},"protocol for first aid","aid obtained, details "]},{"entry":[{},"treatment and map ","of injury, and"]},{"entry":[{},"of first aid station","person to whom"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reported"]},{"entry":["Technician has begun","Status bar indicating the","Cannot save reading "]},{"entry":["monitoring a component","amount of time that has","until minimum time"]},{"entry":[{},"lapsed and the minimum","has been met"]},{"entry":[{},"amount of time required",{}]},{"entry":["A leak is identified on a ","Monitor longer and ","Cannot save reading "]},{"entry":["component having a","status bar is reset to ","until additional "]},{"entry":["diameter greater than a","capture additional time","monitoring time"]},{"entry":["predetermined value",{},"has been met"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Various implementations described herein are configured to identify triggering events and guarantee technician awareness of the triggering events by intervening in the operation of the underlying program and displaying a pre-set array of alerts, instructions and action steps to be taken. In this manner, various implementations described herein may ensure proper assessment of the triggering events on the part of the technician by prompting the appropriate response to an array of questions and then comparing the responses given against the set of appropriate responses. In addition, various implementations described herein may ensure sufficient documentation of the assessment and the required action steps. The alert, awareness and assessment loop may ensure the technician's proper response to a triggering event according to a previously designated set of protocols, instructions, checklists and\/or timelines. Various implementations described herein may also document the successful completion of each step along with the technician's assessment of any relevant circumstance associated with the triggering events and follow up steps. In the end, the triggering event monitoring program may report the circumstances and final result of each intervention to a software program that enables management to review and respond appropriately to each intervention.","It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware, software or a combination of both. Thus, various technologies, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing device may include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) may be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language, and combined with hardware implementations.","While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein, other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof, which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Implementations of various technologies will hereafter be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the accompanying drawings illustrate only the various implementations described herein and are not meant to limit the scope of various technologies described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
