---
title: Type selective and polarization selective device for Raman spectroscopy
abstract: A type and polarization selective device for Raman spectroscopy includes a set of at least two antennas and a gap at their intersection. First antenna geometry is such that it is configured to resonate, for first or second (different from the first) polarization, at a predetermined stimulation frequency of a material for which Raman scattering is to be studied, or at a Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency corresponding with the material when excited at stimulation frequency. Second antenna geometry is such that it is configured to resonate, for the other of second or first polarization, at the Stokes frequency when the first antenna is configured to resonate at the stimulation or anti-Stokes frequency, or at the anti-Stokes frequency when the first antenna is configured to resonate at the stimulation or Stokes frequency, or at the stimulation frequency when the first antenna is configured to resonate at the Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07907275&OS=07907275&RS=07907275
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07907275
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090619
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE 1","EXAMPLE 2","EXAMPLE 3"],"p":["This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR0011-09-3-0001, awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.","The present disclosure relates generally to type selective and polarization selective device(s) for Raman spectroscopy.","Raman spectroscopy is used to study the transitions between molecular energy states when photons interact with molecules, which results in the energy of the scattered photons being shifted. The Raman scattering of a molecule can be seen as two processes. The molecule, which is at a certain energy state, is first excited into another (virtual) energy state by the local electromagnetic field, which is ordinarily in the optical frequency domain. The excited molecule then radiates as a dipole source under the influence of the environment in which it sits at a frequency that may be relatively low (i.e., Stokes scattering), or that may be relatively high (i.e., anti-Stokes scattering) compared to the excitation signal. In some instances, the Raman spectrum of a given material shows multiple pairs of Stokes\/anti-Stokes peaks. For each pair, the frequency difference between the excitation signal and the Stokes signal is the same as that between the anti-Stokes signal and the excitation signal. While Raman scattering is very useful, the magnitude of Raman scattering is typically very low. Furthermore, the polarization of the Raman signal is ordinarily random unless otherwise influenced by the environment.","Optical antennas have been used to enhance Raman scattering. Such optical antennas are often made from plasmonic materials (e.g., noble metals such as gold and silver). When properly designed, the electric field in a certain small area (i.e., the hot spot) around the antenna is much stronger than that of the incident electromagnetic (EM) wave in a certain frequency range around the resonant frequency of the antenna. An optical antenna ordinarily responds to the incident optical wave with a certain polarization, and the polarization of this optical antenna is defined as the polarization of this optical wave. When a material of interest (or an object made of the material of interest) is placed at the hot spot, the Raman scattering of this material is greatly enhanced in either the excitation process or the radiation process, or both. Optical antennas may be configured to enhance the local field that stimulates the Raman process.","Still further, the existence of the optical antenna can enhance the radiation of the Raman signal. The enhancement of the radiation can be equivalently described by the local field enhancement of the antenna under an incident EM wave at the Raman radiation frequency. If both the stimulating frequency and the Raman scattering frequency (Stokes and\/or anti-Stokes) are close to the resonant frequency of the antenna, one single optical antenna is capable of enhancing the Raman scattering in both processes. However, the Raman shift (i.e., the difference between the frequency of the Raman signal and the stimulating EM wave) is often large, and, in some instances, is much larger than the bandwidth of the optical antenna. The present inventors have found that, in such instances, the optical antenna enhances the Raman scattering in either, but not both, the stimulating process or the radiation process when the optical antenna resonant frequency is properly designed. It is to be understood that in the various embodiments discussed herein, the Stokes or the anti-Stokes frequency refers to that of the first characteristic Stokes anti-Stokes pair that is the closest to the excitation\/stimulation frequency of the material, unless specified otherwise. In the embodiments disclosed herein, each antenna of the multi-antenna devices are specifically configured\/designed so that the respective resonant spectrums cover one of the stimulating frequency, the Stokes frequency or the anti-Stokes frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["12","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","16"]},"The present inventors have found that the resonant frequency depends, at least in part, on the geometry of the antenna  and the properties of the material  used in the gap G of the antenna . Three different antennas having shapes similar to that shown in  were studied numerically to generate this conclusion. Specifically, these antennas each had a width of 20 nm and a 20 nm by 20 nm gap.  illustrates the ratio of the square of the electric field magnitude at the center of each of the three different antennas to that of the incident wave as the frequency changes. The half length L of the antenna  (i.e., the length L of each segment \u2032, \u2033 of the antenna ) was different for each antenna, as indicated in the key of the graph. The frequency response curve changes greatly when the antenna geometry configuration is changed.","The Stokes and\/or anti-Stokes frequency for which an antenna  is configured depends, at least in part, on the material selected and the excitation\/stimulation frequency selected (which e.g., as shown in , is used to determine the geometry of the antenna ). This is due, at least in part, to the fact that for a given material, the frequency difference between the stimulation frequency and the Stokes\/anti-Stokes signal is fixed. As such, when a particular material is excited at different frequencies, the Stokes and anti-Stokes frequencies are different. For example, if a particular material is excited at 1000 nm, the Stokes frequency may be 1005 nm while the anti-Stokes frequency may be 995 nm, but if the particular material is excited at 2000 nm, the Stokes frequency may be 2020 nm while the anti-Stokes frequency may be 1980 nm. Thus, the Stokes and\/or anti-Stokes frequencies for which the antennas  disclosed herein are configured depend upon the excitation\/stimulation frequency.","Embodiments of the device disclosed herein include one or more antenna sets , each set  including two or more optical antennas ,  (see, e.g., ) that share a gap G at their intersection, as described further hereinbelow. When the device is to be used, the material  to be studied is placed in the gap G, where the local electromagnetic field is enhanced by one or more the antennas ,  of the device. The optical antennas ,  are linearly polarized with polarizations that are different from each other, and are designed to resonate at different frequencies (i.e., each corresponds to the stimulation frequency, the Stokes Raman scattering frequency or the anti-Stokes Raman scattering frequency). As such, each optical antenna ,  in a particular set  of the embodiments disclosed herein is type selective (i.e., may be configured to resonate at the stimulating frequency, the Stokes Raman scattering frequency, or the anti-Stokes Raman scattering frequency) and is also polarization selective. In some embodiments, the device is capable of selectively enhancing the Stokes or the anti-Stokes Raman signal, and the Raman signal is at a specified polarization different from that of the stimulating electromagnetic wave. In other embodiments, the Stokes and the anti-Stokes Raman scattering are both enhanced, but are radiated with different polarizations.","Referring now to , an embodiment of the device  for type selective and polarization selective Raman spectroscopy is depicted. This embodiment of the device  includes one antenna set  having two antennas , . The antennas ,  are linear (i.e., extend in a single direction, with no curve or bend). It is to be understood that other antenna geometries may also be used. Non-limiting examples of such other geometries are bow-tie antennas and elliptic, spherical, or faceted nanoparticle dimer antennas. As shown in , the antennas ,  are positioned such that they cross each other at some non-zero (and non-180\u00b0) angle \u03b8. In one embodiment, \u03b8 equals 90\u00b0, such that the two antennas ,  are perpendicular to each other. As mentioned briefly hereinabove, the area at which the antennas ,  intersect is a gap G where neither of the antenna ,  material is present. In one embodiment, the gap G is empty after antenna ,  fabrication so that the desirable Raman sample of interest may be introduced therein. In another embodiment, the gap G is filled with any desirable material  to be studied via Raman spectroscopy during antenna fabrication , .","The characteristics of the antennas ,  (including the lengths (shown as L and L in ) of the respective antenna segments \u2032, \u2033 and \u2032, \u2033) and direction (e.g., X, Y, etc.)) and of the gap G (including the size) will depend, at least in part, upon the desirable operation of the device . The desirable operation of the device  will depend, at least in part, upon the material  to be studied using the antenna set . As such, gap G and antennas ,  are selected to generate a set  that functions in a predetermined manner for the material  of interest. More specifically, the characteristics selected will enable one to configure the device  with set(s)  having antennas ,  that resonate at desirable frequencies and have stimulation signal enhancement or scattering enhancement in desirable, different polarizations.","As mentioned hereinabove, the material  to be introduced into the gap G is selected because its Raman scattering is of interest. The existence of the material  in the gap G influences the frequency property of one or both of the antennas , . Knowing the material  to be introduced into the gap G enables one to design each antenna ,  to resonate at the specified stimulating frequency, the Stokes frequency of the selected material , or the anti-Stokes frequency of the selected material  when the material  is placed in the gap . It is to be understood that when a material  exhibits multiple peaks at different frequencies, one or more of the antennas ,  may be configured to resonate at the Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency of that particular peak (this is described further hereinbelow in reference to ). As such, the material  of interest is selected, the antennas ,  are designed and manufactured to resonate at the desirable respective frequency, and then the material  is placed in the gap .","When the design of the antenna set  corresponds with the resonance of two or more different materials  of interest, it is to be understood that upon manufacturing such an antenna set , the gap G may be left empty. Such an antenna set  may be incorporated into a device  including an array of different antenna sets, where each antenna set  in the array is configured to detect a different frequency peak of one of the two or more particular materials  of interest. The array enables such a versatile antenna set  to be used to study one particular material . It is to be understood that the material  of interest may be added to each antenna  in the array when it is desirable to study the material .","The material  may be a particle made of the desirable material, or may be a particle-like single object, such as a molecule. Non-limiting examples of gap G materials  include silicon, silicon nitride, and polymers. Other non-limiting examples of materials  (e.g., in the form of particles or particle-like objects) include quantum dots made up of a dielectric material, quantum dots made up of a semiconductor material, chemical species, biological species (e.g., virus, cells, toxins, disease marker molecules, or the like), other organic molecules, or combinations thereof. Some other non-limiting examples of suitable materials  include explosive molecules (e.g., TNT, plastic explosives, etc.), or hazardous molecules (e.g., VOC (volatile organic compounds), CO, CO, and toxic gases, such as phosphine nitroxide gases, etc). Suitable materials  may include any molecules of environmental, health, and\/or security interest.","The size of the gap G is generally small in order to achieve a large field enhancement. The size of the sides of the gap G will depend, at least in part, on the width of each of the antennas , , and the depth of the gap G will depend, at least in part, on the height of each of the antennas , . In one non-limiting example, the gap G is 20 nm by 20 nm in size, and has a depth of the thickness (i.e., height) of the antenna , .","Each of the optical antennas ,  is configured to respond to an incident optical wave with a predetermined polarization. The polarization of a linear optical antenna ,  is along the direction of the particular antenna , . For example, and as shown in , the polarization of the antenna  is in the Y direction while the polarization of the antenna  is in the X direction. In this example, the polarizations are perpendicular to each other. When the incident wave has the same polarization as that of one of the antennas , , the local field will be greatly enhanced at the resonant frequency of that particular antenna , . As such, the respective antennas ,  can be used to either enhance the stimulating process or the radiation process in the Raman scattering. It is to be understood that a respective antenna ,  does not enhance both stimulation and radiation, because the resonant spectrum of each antenna ,  is deliberately designed to cover a different frequency than that of the other antenna , . In some of the embodiments disclosed herein, excitation signals of one polarization at the stimulating frequency may be used to stimulate the device  via the assistance of one of the antennas ,  having the same polarization, and Raman signals at the Raman-shifted radiation frequency and of another polarization will be transmitted from the device  (and in some instances detected) with the assistance of the other antenna , , which is a radiation-enhancing antenna corresponding with the other polarization.","Adjusting the respective half-lengths L, L of the antennas ,  (also referred to herein as the lengths L, L of the respective antenna segments \u2032, \u2033 and \u2032, \u2033, where each segment \u2032 and \u2033 or  and \u2033 in an antenna  or  is equal to the other segment \u2033 and \u2032 or \u2033 and \u2032 in the antenna  or ) enables the antennas ,  to be individually tuned to a particular resonating frequency. In the embodiments disclosed herein, since it is desirable that the antennas ,  resonate at different frequencies, the length L, of the segments \u2032, \u2033 will, in some embodiments, be different from the length L of the segments \u2032, \u2033. For antennas ,  having a shape other than linear shape shown in the Figures, the resonant frequency can, in principle, be adjusted by varying the geometry shape of the antennas , . For example, it is believed that the frequency of a linear antenna ,  will be different from the frequency of a bowtie-shaped antenna (not shown).","Non-limiting examples of materials for each of the antennas ,  include plasmonic materials, such as any noble metal (e.g., gold, silver, etc.), copper, aluminum, or any alloys thereof. Furthermore, the first and second antenna ,  may be formed of the same metal, or of different metals. Selecting different metals for the respective antennas ,  will contribute, at least in part, to the antennas ,  giving off different resonances.","As non-limiting examples, the following devices  may be achieved by selecting a material  of interest to be studied, and then selecting appropriate antenna ,  and gap G dimensions to achieve desirable resonating frequencies at desirable peaks of the material  and polarizations for the material . It is to be understood that  will be used to explain the various configurations of the device  in the following three paragraphs.","In one embodiment, the device  includes one antenna  (referred to in this example as the stimulating-enhancing antenna) that resonates at the stimulation frequency of the material , while the other antenna  (referred to in this example as the radiation-enhancing antenna) resonates at the related Stokes frequency of the material . In this example, the antenna  has Y polarization, and the antenna  has X polarization. In this example, the incident wave is selected to have Y polarization (i.e., the same polarization as the stimulating-enhancing antenna ). When exposed to the incident wave, the stimulating-enhancing antenna  enhances the local electromagnetic field at the gap G so that the Raman scattering probability is increased due to the enhancement in the stimulation process. The radiation process of the Raman scattering is then further enhanced due to the existence of the radiation-enhancing antenna , and, in this example, the radiated Raman signals are predominantly of the Stokes type. Further, the polarization of the Raman signal is predominantly that of the radiation-enhancing antenna , which, in this non-limiting example, is X polarization.","In another embodiment, the device  includes one antenna  (referred to in this example as the stimulating-enhancing antenna) that resonates at the stimulation frequency of the material , while the other antenna  (referred to in this example as the radiation-enhancing antenna) resonates at the related anti-Stokes frequency of the material . In this example, the antenna  has Y polarization, and the antenna  has X polarization. In this example, the incident wave is selected to have Y polarization (i.e., the same polarization as the stimulating-enhancing antenna ). When exposed to the incident wave, the stimulating-enhancing antenna  enhances the local electromagnetic field at the gap G so that the Raman scattering probability is increased due to the enhancement in the stimulation process. The radiation process of the Raman scattering is then further enhanced due to the existence of the radiation-enhancing antenna , and, in this example, the radiated Raman signals are predominantly of the anti-Stokes type. Further, the polarization of the Raman signal is again predominantly that of the radiation-enhancing antenna , which, in this non-limiting example, is X polarization.","In still another embodiment, the device  includes one antenna  that resonates at the related Stokes frequency of the material , while the other antenna  resonates at the related anti-Stokes frequency of the material . In this example, both antennas ,  are configured to be used as radiation-enhancing antennas; however, one (i.e., antenna ) is positioned in the Y direction and has Y polarization, and the other (i.e., antenna ) is positioned in the X direction and has X polarization. It is to be understood that the incident wave (corresponding with the stimulation frequency of the material  studied) may have either X, or Y, or a combined polarization, and that the local electromagnetic field at the gap G may not be greatly enhanced as a result of either of the antennas , . Rather, in this example, both types of Raman scattering (Stokes and anti-Stokes) are enhanced during the radiation process as a result of the respective antennas , . It is to be understood that the polarization of the respective Raman signals will correspond with the polarization of the antenna  or  configured for that particular signal's enhancement. For example, the Stokes signals will have Y polarization (corresponding with antenna ) and the anti-Stokes signals will have X polarization (corresponding with antenna ). In this particular example, since the polarization of each antenna ,  is in a different direction, the enhanced signals are also advantageously radiated at different polarizations.","As shown in , any embodiment of the device  may be established on a substrate . It is to be understood that the antennas ,  are configured so that they resonate in a desirable manner on the substrate . As such, the substrate  selected may be taken into consideration when determining the geometry of the antennas ,  in order to achieve the desirable resonance of each antenna , . Non-limiting examples of suitable substrate materials include insulators (e.g., glass, quartz, ceramic, alumina, etc.), polymeric material(s) (e.g., polycarbonate, polyamide, acrylics, etc.), or semiconductors (e.g., silicon, InP, GaAs, InAs, GaAlAs (where 0<x<1), InGaAsP(where 0<x<1, 0<y<1)), silicon-on-insulator (SOI) substrates, or group III-V semiconductors established on silicon or SOI substrates. Still further, in one embodiment, the substrate  is not a facet of a laser.","Referring now to , B, and C, other embodiments of the antenna set \u2032, \u2033, and \u2032\u2033 are respectively depicted. In the embodiment shown in , a third linear antenna  (including segments \u2032 and \u2033) crosses each of the first and second antennas ,  at respective non-zero angles. In the embodiment shown in , the third linear antenna  crosses each of the first and second antennas ,  such that it is perpendicular to each of the other antennas , . In the embodiment shown in , the third linear antenna  crosses each of the first and second antennas ,  such that it is perpendicular to each of the other antennas , , and a fourth linear antenna  (including segments \u2032 and \u2033) is in the same plane as the third linear antenna  but crosses the antenna  at a non-zero angle. In each of these embodiments, the gap G and any material  established therein is shared by all of the antennas , , , . It is to be understood that the characteristics of the third and fourth antennas ,  are designed in accordance with the selected material  so as to achieve the desirable polarization, and the desirable resonating frequency. The third and fourth antennas ,  are generally configured at respective polarizations that are parallel to the direction of the particular antenna , , and to have a resonating frequency that is different than each of the other antennas , .","While the embodiments disclosed herein show two, three, and four crossing antennas , , ,  in a set , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033, it is to be understood that any desirable number of antennas , , ,  may be included in the device . Potential limitations on the number of antennas , , ,  that can be included in a device  include the size of the antennas , , ,  and the space available around the gap G.","As a non-limiting example of the embodiment shown in , the first antenna  may be configured to resonate at the stimulation frequency for Y polarization, the second antenna  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding Stokes frequency for X polarization, and the third antenna  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding anti-Stokes frequency for a polarization that is in the same plane as both the X and Y polarizations. In this embodiment, the polarization of the third antenna  is not entirely independent of, but is not the same as, the other two polarizations. The example given is for illustrative purposes, and it is to be understood that each of the antennas , ,  may be configured at different resonating frequencies in order to enhance stimulation or scattering at those frequencies and at the respective polarizations, or two of the antennas  and ,  and , or  and  may be configured to resonate at the same frequency in order to enhance stimulation or scattering at that particular frequency and at the respective polarizations.","In the non-limiting example shown in , the first antenna  may be configured to resonate at the stimulation frequency for Y polarization, the second antenna  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding Stokes frequency for X polarization, and the third antenna  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding anti-Stokes frequency for Z polarization. The example given is for illustrative purposes, and it is to be understood that each of the antennas , ,  may be configured at different resonating frequencies in order to enhance stimulation or scattering at those frequencies and at the respective polarizations, or two of the antennas  and ,  and , or  and  may be configured to resonate at the same frequency in order to enhance stimulation or scattering at that particular frequency and at the respective polarizations.","In the non-limiting example shown in , the first antenna  may be configured to resonate at the stimulation frequency for Y polarization, the second antenna  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding Stokes frequency for Z polarization, and the third and fourth antennas  and  may be configured to resonate at the selected material's corresponding anti-Stokes frequency respectively for Z polarization and for another polarization that is different than the polarization of each of antennas ,  and . This example is also provided for illustrative purposes, and it is to be understood that at least two of the antennas  and ,  and ,  and ,  and , or  and  may be configured at the same frequency in order to enhance stimulation at that particular frequency, while the other two of the antennas  and ,  and ,  and ,  and , or  and  may be configured at the same frequency or at different frequencies in order to enhance scattering at that\/those particular frequency\/frequencies and polarization(s).","The antenna sets , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033 disclosed herein are suitable for use in standard Raman detection procedures. A system  for such a procedure is shown in  and includes the device  and a light source . In some embodiments, analyte molecules or particles are distributed in the previously empty gap G as the material  of interest, and are subsequently subjected to laser excitation of suitable material  stimulating wavelengths from the light source . In other embodiments, the material  filled in the gap G is of Raman interest and thus is studied using the device  including one or more of antenna sets , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033. The resulting signals are detected using known detector(s) (not shown).","Other systems \u2032, \u2033 including other embodiments of the device \u2032, \u2033 are shown in . In these embodiments, multiple antenna sets (shown as , , in , , in ) are included in the device, for example, as an array on a substrate . The antenna sets , , and , , are established on any suitable substrate , such as those previously described, and are individually configured so that at least one of the antennas , , resonates at a different peak frequency for a material  of interest. While three sets (, , in , , in ) are shown in the Figures, it is to be understood that any desirable number of antenna sets , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033, , , , , , may be included in an array. In one embodiment, the number of sets , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033, , , , , , included in an array will depend upon the number of different peak frequencies that are to be detected in the Raman spectrum and are characteristic of a material  of interest.","In the embodiment shown in , the first antennas , , of each antenna set , , have the same geometry (including the same half-length L), and thus are configured at the same frequency, for example, to enhance stimulation. The second antennas , , of each antenna set , , have different geometries (including different half-lengths LA, LB, LC, such that LA\u2260LB\u2260LC). As such, each of the second antennas , , is configured to resonate at a different frequency, for example, to enhance scattering at those respective frequencies. For example, if a material  of interest to be introduced into the respective gaps G of the antenna sets , , has three different peaks of interest, one antenna of the first set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the first peak of interest, one antenna of the second set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the second peak of interest, and one antenna of the third set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes or anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the third peak of interest. The individual responses of each of the antennas , , may be used together to identify the material . In this example, the other antenna , , in each set , , is designed to enhance the stimulation.","In the embodiment shown in , the first antennas , , of each antenna set , , have different geometries (including different half-lengths LD, LE, LF, such that LD\u2260LE\u2260LF), and thus are configured at different frequencies in order to enhance either Stokes or anti-Stokes scattering at a particular peak of interest of the material . The second antennas , , of each antenna set , , also have different geometries (including different half-lengths LD, LE, LF, such that LD\u2260LE\u2260LF), and thus are configured at different frequencies in order to enhance the other of anti-Stokes or Stokes scattering at the particular peak of interest of the material . For example, if a material  of interest to be introduced into the respective gaps G of the antenna sets , , has three different peaks of interest, one antenna of the first set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes frequency corresponding to the first peak of interest while the other antenna of the first set may be configured to resonate at the anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the first peak of interest, and one antenna of the second set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes frequency corresponding to the second peak of interest while the other antenna of the second set may be configured to resonate at the anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the second peak of interest, and one antenna of the third set may be configured to resonate at the Stokes frequency corresponding to the third peak of interest while the other antenna of the third set may be configured to resonate at the anti-Stokes frequency corresponding to the third peak of interest. The individual responses of each of the antenna sets , , may be used together to identify the material .","The embodiments of the antenna sets , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033 (as well as , , , , , ) disclosed herein may be formed via any desirable technique. In one embodiment, the geometric pattern of the antennas , , and in some instances antennas , , the gap G, and the material  in the gap G are formed with the desirable dimensions and crossing at the desirable angle(s) \u03b8 by nanoimprint lithography, electron-beam lithography, photo-lithography, extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography, X-ray lithography, any other suitable lithography technique, or any other pattern defining technique. In another embodiment, the antennas , , and in some antennas , , the gap G, and the material  in the gap G are formed with the desirable dimensions and crossing at the desirable angle(s) \u03b8 by depositing desirable metal materials and the etching the metal materials to pattern the antennas , , and in some instances antennas , . In still another embodiment, the antennas , , and in some instances antennas , , are formed with the desirable dimensions and crossing at the desirable angle(s) \u03b8 by depositing the desirable metal materials and then using a lift-off technique to pattern the antennas , , and in some instances antennas , , from the deposited metal materials. In still another embodiment, the antennas , , and in some instances antennas , , the gap G, and the material  in the gap G are fabricated by direct deposition using focused ion beam. In yet another embodiment, the antennas ,  (and in some instances antennas , ), the gap G, and the material  in the gap G are fabricated by direct deposition using plating. The examples shown herein are illustrative and are by no means an exhaustive list.","Generating an embodiment of the device , \u2032, \u2033, \u2032\u2033 generally involves selecting a material  of interest, determining the desirable excitation frequency, and then configuring the geometry of the antennas , , ,  to resonate at the desirable frequency and polarization. Designing the antennas , , ,  disclosed herein is similar to designing antennas for use in the microwave region, which involves the use of established numerical\/theoretical methods. However, when designing the antenna(s) , , ,  disclosed herein, the appropriate optical properties are also considered.","To further illustrate embodiment(s) of the present disclosure, various examples are given herein. It is to be understood that these are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosed embodiment(s).","The present inventors first numerically studied the resonating frequency of simulated single linear antennas. The results of this study indicated that the geometry of the antenna affects the resonating frequency. Three different linear antennas were simulated having similar linear shapes (i.e., a 20 nm width), as shown in . The gap formed was 20 nm by 20 nm and was filled with silicon. The length for each antenna was different. The length of each segment of Antenna  was 113 nm long, the length of each segment of antenna  was 127 nm long, and the length of each segment of antenna  was 140 nm long.  illustrates the ratio of the square of the electric field magnitude at the center of each antenna gap to that of the incident wave as the frequency changes. The numerical study was performed using a finite element method (FEM) with a commercially available software package from COMSOL. As depicted in , the frequency response changed greatly when the antenna length was changed.","The present inventors then numerically studied the effect that crossing two different linear antennas such that they share a common gap would have on the frequency response and polarization of the Raman scattering of the gap material (refer to ). One antenna was configured to operate at the stimulating frequency of the material in the gap, and the other antenna was designed to operate at the anti-Stokes scattering frequency. It is to be understood that the second antenna could also have been designed to operate at the Stokes scattering frequency instead of the anti-Stokes scattering frequency.","More specifically, each simulated antenna was made of silver, and the width of each antenna was 20 nm. As such, the gap was 20 nm by 20 nm. The material inside the gap was silicon. The length of each segment of the first antenna was 140 nm, and as such, this antenna was configured to resonate around 1550 nm free space wavelength, which is the stimulating wavelength for silicon that would be used with an actual antenna for studying Raman scattering of silicon. The polarization of this antenna was along the X axis. The length of each segment of the second antenna was 110 nm, and as such, this antenna was configured to resonate around 1434 nm, which is the anti-Stokes frequency of silicon when 1550 nm excitation is used. The polarization of this antenna was along the Y axis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},"Likewise, if the second antenna is designed to resonate at the Stokes frequency (1686 nm), the Stokes Raman scattering can be greatly enhanced, and the device will possess a relatively dominant strength in the Raman scattering.","The numerical study of Example 2 was also performed using a finite element method (FEM) with a commercially available software package from COMSOL.","The present inventors again numerically studied the effect that crossing two different, simulated linear antennas such that they share a common gap would have on the frequency response and polarization of the gap material (again refer to ). In this example, one antenna was configured to operate at the Stokes scattering frequency of the material in the gap for a certain stimulation\/excitation frequency (e.g., 1550 nm free space wavelength excitatino), and the other antenna was designed to operate at the anti-Stokes scattering frequency for the same stimulation\/excitation frequency.","More specifically, each simulated antenna was made of silver, and the width of each antenna was 20 nm. As such, the gap was 20 nm*20 nm. The material inside the gap was silicon. The length of each segment of the first antenna was 164 nm, and as such, this antenna was configured to resonate around 1686 nm (i.e., the Stokes scattering in silicon for 1550 nm excitation). The polarization of this antenna was along the Y axis. The length of each segment of the second antenna was 115 nm, and as such, this antenna was configured to resonate around 1434 nm (i.e., the anti-Stokes scattering in silicon for 1550 nm excitation). The polarization of this antenna was along the X axis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},"While several embodiments have been described in detail, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be modified. Therefore, the foregoing description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Features and advantages of embodiments of the present disclosure will become apparent by reference to the following detailed description and drawings, in which like reference numerals correspond to similar, though perhaps not identical, components. For the sake of brevity, reference numerals or features having a previously described function may or may not be described in connection with other drawings in which they appear.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
