---
title: Method and system for improving information system performance based on usage patterns
abstract: Usage patterns of structure model are utilized to determine a personalized structure model associated with a user. The personalized structure model is constructed such that retrieval of data associated with the personalized structure model is expected to improve performance of retrieving data from the data provider. The personalized structure model may be arranged based on an order of retrieval, based on groups of structure objects that may be retrieved together or the like. The personalized structure model may be a flat structure model to further improve performance of retrieving data from the data provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330123&OS=09330123&RS=09330123
owner: SAP SE
number: 09330123
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20091220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to retrieval of data from computer systems in general and to optimization of the retrieval, in particular.","It is common to have a user interface or an access point to an information system that comprises a data provider in order to retrieve data. The data provider may be for example, a database, another information system or the like. A user may approach the information system with a query associated to an entity represented by a structure model defined by the data provider. The information system retrieves the data from the data provider and provides the data to the user. The query may be in a query language, such as for example, Structured Query Language (SQL). Object Query Language (OQL), XQuery, Common Query Language (CQL), Representational State Transfer (REST), or Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) or the like.","In some cases, a user may query for a portion of data associated with an entity that is stored in the data provider. A plurality of fields of the entity may not be of interest to the user.","There is a need that to enable a user to perform queries and retrieve data based on a personalized structure model, instead of the structure model of the data provider. Structure models of the data provider are generally not under the control of the information system. The data provider may have an inflexible frame which is not adapted to the information system and the needs of a specific user. Therefore the straight forward approach of retrieving data from the data provider, storing it in the information system memory and providing it to the user may be inefficient.","Retrieval of un-adapted structure models may consume computing resources such as memory, CPU, network bandwidth, system calls and the like. The resource consumption may not be optimized for the actual usage and, as a result, the resource consumption may increase the load on the computer system, may require unnecessary resources, may take longer time periods, and may cause performances issues.","Referring now to  showing a computerized environment in which the disclosed subject matter is used, in accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the subject matter. A computerized environment  may comprise a data provider , a computerized optimization system , a forms database , a client layer  and a user .","The data provider  may be an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, an office automation system, an enterprise system or any other information system comprising a structure model associated with an entity. In some exemplary embodiments, there may be a plurality of data providers, such as . The computerized optimization system  may be a computerized system which is a part of an information system configured to interact with the data provider  and the user . The user  may be a worker or a manager in a business organization, an external service consumer or the like. The user  may be a consumer of data stored in the data provider . In some exemplary embodiments, a plurality of users may access the data provider, either via the computerized optimization system, via other channels or directly. The plurality of users may, for example, include users  and .","In some exemplary embodiments, the computerized optimization system  may be an integral component of the data provider , together forming an information system. For example, the information system may be marketed comprising the computerized optimization system  built in the data provider .","The user  may access the computerized optimization system  for retrieval of data, comprised by a structure model, from the data provider . The user  may access the computerized optimization system  by utilizing the client layer . The computerized optimization system  may retrieve data for the user  from the data provider , based on a personalized structure model. The personalized structure model may be determined according to usage information associated with the user . The personalized structure model may be organized such that a relatively more efficient data retrieval may be performed. For example, several structure objects that may be obtained by a single query may be grouped together and retrieved by a single retrieval request instead of multiple requests. As another example, the personalized structure object may be a flat structure model. As yet another example, an order of retrieval of structure objects of the structure model may be modified to enable faster retrieval of data associated with predetermined structure objects, such as for example structure objects that the user  is often interested in.","The usage information may be obtained by the computerized optimization system  during previous uses of the user , may be provided to the computerized system  by another device or user, or otherwise be available to the computerized optimization system .","Retrieval of data from the data provider  may be a local retrieval or a remote retrieval. A local retrieval may be performed by using SQL, for example. A remote retrieval may be performed by using Web Service, REST, Remote Function Call (RFC), Remote Procedure Call (RPC) or the like.","The data retrieved from the data provider  may be presented or otherwise provided to the user  by the client layer . A connection between the computerized optimization system  and the client layer  may be enabled by protocols such as REST or SOAP, for example. The computerized optimization system  may update the personalized structure model in response to a use of the user , every use of the user , every predetermined time period, in predetermined times, in response to predetermined actions or the like.","The forms database  may comprise data regarding forms utilized by the user  when using the client layer . The forms database  may comprise, for example, structure objects which are displayed or otherwise presented by a form in the client layer . The forms database  may comprise information regarding associated forms, such as a list form listing objects of a similar entity, and a details form detailing additional information regarding an object selected in the list form. The computerized optimization system  may utilize the forms database  in order to determine usage information. For example, the user  may be utilizing a first form, and therefore may be deemed as interested in a first portion of the structure model. The user  may be, on the other hand, utilizing a second form, and therefore may be deemed as interested in a second portion of the structure model. By being informed of information regarding various forms the user  utilizes, usage information may be obtained.","Referring now to  showing a block diagram of a structure model, in accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the subject matter. A structure model  may comprise structure objects such as sub-structures, second level sub-structures, third level sub-structures or the like. The structure model , presented in , is associated with a \u201cContact Person\u201d entity. The structure model  may comprise sub-structures such as  named \u201cPrivate Address\u201d,  named \u201cPerson Name\u201d,  named \u201cContact Person Note\u201d,  named \u201cDepartment name\u201d and the like. A sub-structure may comprise a second level sub-structures. For example, the sub-structure  may comprise second level sub-structures, such as  named \u201cNick Name\u201d,  named \u201cMiddle Name\u201d,  named \u201cFamily Name\u201d and the like. The structure model  represents data that may be stored in a data provider, such as  of . A user, such as  of , may query for a portion of data associated to an entity, such as for example, data in structure objects , ,  (named \u201cFloor ID\u201d),  (named \u201cRoom ID\u201d) or the like. It will be noted that in some exemplary embodiments, the structure model  may comprise two or more structure objects comprising identical information. For example, the structure objects  and  may comprise identical data\u2014a department name of a contact person. As the data is identical for both structure objects  and , retrieving data from a single structure object, such as for example , may suffice. It will be noted that a structure of the structure model is generally referred to as a structure object.","Referring now to  showing a block diagram of a computerized optimization system, in accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the subject matter. A computerized optimization system , such as  of , may comprise a usage obtainer , a personalized structure model determinator , a retrieval request detection module  and a data obtainer .","The usage obtainer  may be configured to obtain usage information of a user, such as the user  of . The usage information may be associated with a structure model, such as the structure model  of . In one exemplary embodiment, the usage obtainer may receive the usage information from the user, such as for example using a keyboard or other I\/O device (not shown). In another exemplary embodiment, the usage obtainer  may comprise a usage monitor  configured to monitor user's usage in order to obtain the usage information. In yet another exemplary embodiment, the usage information may be obtained from a file, such as for example a log file.","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may be configured to determine a personalized structure model for the user. The personalized structure model determinator  may utilize the usage obtainer  to determine the personalized structure model associated with a user based on the usage information. For example, a portion of the structure objects in the structure model may be removed from the personalized structure model. For example, rarely used structure objects may be removed, duplicate structure object may be replaced by a single structure object, or the like","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may comprise a grouping module . The grouping module  may be configured to determine a group of structure objects that may be retrieved in a single retrieval request from a data provider, such as the data provider  of . It will be noted that which structure objects may be retrieved in a single retrieval request may be dictated or otherwise determined by the data provider. It will be further noted that in some exemplary embodiments a group may be split to two or more groups based on usage information, such as for example not to include rarely used structure objects in a first group. The personalized structure model determinator  may utilize the grouping module  to determine the personalized structure model based on the group. For example, the personalized structure model may be configured to comprise structure objects from a limited number of groups, such as to reduce a number of retrieval requests to be required in order to retrieve data represented by the personalized structure model. A predetermined group may be preferred over another group based on the usage information. The personalized structure model determinator  may determine the personalized structure model such that it may include structure objects often utilized by the user and which can be retrieved by a relative small number of retrieval requests.","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may comprise a structure objects sorter . The structure objects sorter  may be configured to determine an order of retrieval between a first structure object and a second structure object. The order of retrieval is based on the usage information. The order may affect an order of retrieval of the structure objects. In an exemplary embodiment, structure objects in the personalized structure model may be arranged from left to right, such that data associated with the structure objects is retrieved first for the leftmost structure object, through all the structure objects and to the rightmost structure object, which is retrieved last. In an exemplary embodiment, the structure objects sorter  may arrange structure objects from left to right, based on the usage information of the structure object, in a descending order. A structure object having a highest probability to be used by the user may be placed at the left side. A structure object having a lowest probability to be used may be placed at the right side. As a result, the computerized optimization system  retrieves the structure objects that are placed at the left side faster than the structure objects that are placed at the right side. It will be noted that an order may be determined between groups, between a structure object and a group of structure objects, or between any two elements of the personalized structure model that may retrieved each using a single retrieval request.","The structure objects sorter  may determine an order between second level sub-structures within a single sub-structure based on the usage information of the second level sub-structures. The personalized structure model determinator  may utilize the structure objects sorter  to determine an order of arrangement between structure objects of the personalized structure model.","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may comprise a structure model flattener . The structure model flattener  may be configured to determine a flat personalized structure model. The structure model flattener  may determine a new arrangement of the structure objects by transforming second level sub-structures to sub-structures. The structure model flattener  may flatten the structure model by modifying the structure model to comprise only sub-structures. The structure model flattener  may determine a flat projection of a portion of the structure model, such as for example a projection of a second sub-structure to a set of sub-structures. The personalized structure model determinator  may utilize the structure model flattener  in order to determine a flat personalized structure model.","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may utilize the grouping module , the structure objects sorter  and the structure model flattener , or a combination thereof, in order to determine the personalized structure model. For example, the structure objects sorter  may sort structure objects in an arrangement based on groups of the structure objects determined by the grouping module . The structure model flattener  may utilize the arrangement in order to determine the flat structure model.","In some exemplary embodiments, the personalized structure model determinator  may omit duplicate structure objects, such as department name  of .","The retrieval request detection module  may be configured to detect a retrieval request by the user. The retrieval request may be associated with the entity associated with the structure model. The retrieval request detection module  may utilize an interface, such as for example an Application Programming Interface (API), or another I\/O module in order to detect the retrieval request by the user. In some exemplary embodiments, the user may send a retrieval request to the information system through the computerized optimization system  by employing a predetermined communication protocol. The retrieval request detection module  may implement the communication protocol.","The data obtainer  may be configured to obtain data associated with the retrieval request. The data obtainer  may be configured to obtain the data from the data provider based on the personalized structure model determined by the personalized structure model determinator . For example, in case the personalized structure model comprises less structure objects than the full structure model associated with the retrieval request, the data obtainer  may obtain only structure objects comprised by the personalized structure model. It will be noted that the data obtainer  may obtain data not required by the retrieval request, such as data associated with the personalized structure model and not requested by the retrieval request.","In some exemplary embodiments, the computerized optimization system  may further comprise a cache memory . The computerized optimization system  may utilize the cache memory  for storing the data obtained by the data obtainer  but not yet requested by the user. In case the user later requests to retrieve structure objects comprised by the personalized structure model, the computerized optimization system  may provide the structure objects stored in the cache memory  without requesting data from the data provider. Storing data associated with the personalized structure model in the cache memory  may consume less memory space than storing data associated with the structure model. Storing data associated with the personalized structure model may further reduce latency time until the user receives the data. As the personalized structure model may be determined based on the user's usage. the data stored in the cache memory  is likely to be of interest to the user, and therefore a relative small amount of redundant data may be retrieved from the data provider and stored in the cache memory .","In some exemplary embodiments the computerized optimization system  may further comprise an output module . The output module  may be configured to provide the data, obtained by the data obtainer , to a client layer such as the client layer  of . The output module  may provide data requested by the retrieval request detected by the retrieval request detection module .","In some exemplary embodiments, the computerized optimization system  may further comprise a lazy loader . The lazy loader  may be configured to lazy load additional data from the data provider. The additional data is associated with the structure model and is not associated with the personalized structure model determined by the personalized structure model determinator . In some exemplary embodiments, the lazy loader  may be configured to retrieve the additional data in response to a request by the user. For example, the request may be a retrieval request of a structure object not comprised by the personalized structure model. In some exemplary embodiment, the lazy loader  may be configured to retrieve additional data requested by the user and not previously stored in the cache memory . In some exemplary embodiment, the lazy loader  may be configured to obtain the additional data without being invoked by the user. For example, the lazy loader  may determine to obtain the additional data in case the data provider, the computerized optimization system , a combination thereof, or the like, is operating at a reduced performance such as during an idle status. In case a component is idle, obtaining the additional data may not hinder system performance as allocated resources for the retrieval of the additional data are not required for performing other tasks.","Referring now to  showing a flow diagram of a method, in accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.","In step , usage information of a structure model may be obtained. The usage information may be obtained by a usage obtainer, such as  of .","In step , structure objects may be grouped into one or more groups. The grouping may be performed by a grouping module, such as  of .","In step , order of retrieval between structure objects may be determined. In some exemplary embodiments, an order may be determined also between a group and a structure object not comprised by a group. In some exemplary embodiments, an order may be determined between groups. The order may be determined by a structure objects sorter, such as  of .","In step , a flat personalized structure model may be determined. The flat personalized structure model may be determined by a structure model flattener, such as  of .","In step , a retrieval request associated with an entity represented by the structure model may be detected. A retrieval request detection module, such as  of , may detect the retrieval request.","In step , data may be obtained from the data provider. The data may be associated with the flat personalized structure model determined in step . The data may be obtained by a data obtainer, such as  of .","In step , the data retrieved in step  may be stored in a cache memory, such as  of .","In step , data requested by the user in the retrieval request detected in step  may be provided to the user. The data may be provided by an output module, such as  of .","In step , a second retrieval request may be detected, such as for example by the retrieval request detection module. The second retrieval request may be also associated with the same entity as the retrieval request detect in step .","In step , a determination is made whether or not requested data in the second retrieval request is stored in the cache memory. In case the data is not stored, lazy loading of additional information may be performed in step , such as for example by a lazy loader  of . In case the data is previously stored in the cache, or in case the data was lazy loaded in step , the data may be provided to the user in step .","In some exemplary embodiments, data in the cache may be removed periodically, in predetermined times, upon predetermined triggers or the like. In some exemplary embodiments, lazy loading, such as performed in step  may be performed not in response to a retrieval request.","It will be noted that the user's retrieval requests, such as those detected in step  or step , may be monitored by a usage monitor such as  of , and later on used as the usage information.","It will be noted that the disclosed subject matter may be implemented in a middleware. The middleware may be configured to receive retrieval requests from the user and provide, in response, data. In such a scenario, detection of retrieval request such as for example performed in step  or by a retrieval request detection module , may be simply receiving the request via an API or the like.","Although the above mentioned was described regarding a single entity represented by the structure model, it will be noted that the disclosed subject matter may also be applied in a similar manner to several entities represented by the structure model, or to several entities represented by several structure models that are interconnected.","While the disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is intended that the disclosed subject matter not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention, but only by the claims that follow."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure will be understood and appreciated more fully from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings in which corresponding or like numerals or characters indicate corresponding or like components. Unless indicated otherwise, the drawings provide exemplary embodiments or aspects of the disclosure and do not limit the scope of the disclosure. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
