---
title: Printer with movable capping member and fixed printhead and platen
abstract: An inkjet printer that has a printhead with an elongate orifice plate and a surface that surrounds the elongate orifice plate, a platen that partially defines a media path extending passed the printhead, a capping member with a seal for sealing engagement with the surface that surrounds the printhead, and a static solenoid for moving the capping member in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal extent of the elongate orifice plate. During use, the printhead, the media path and the platen all remain fixed relative to each other, and the capping member is movable through the media path. Providing a sealing surface around the orifice plate that is configured to engage the cap and seal the printhead requires less manufacturing precision than a capping mechanism that directly engages the orifice plate. Production efficiencies from lower precision assembly have particular significance for high volume products.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07726771&OS=07726771&RS=07726771
owner: Silverbrook Research Pty Ltd
number: 07726771
owner_city: Balmain, New South Wales
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20090413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED AND OTHER EMBODIMENTS","CROSS-REFERENCED APPLICATIONS"],"p":["The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/743,655 filed on May 2, 2007, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/102,847 filed Apr. 11, 2005, now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7,258,418, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/729,150 filed Dec. 8, 2003, now issued U.S. Pat. No. 6,948,794, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/112,774 filed on Jul. 10, 1998, the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.","The present invention relates substantially to the concept of a disposable camera having instant printing capabilities and in particular, discloses a printhead re-capping assembly for a digital camera system.","Recently, the concept of a \u201csingle use\u201d disposable camera has become an increasingly popular consumer item. Disposable camera systems presently on the market normally include an internal film roll and a simplified gearing mechanism for traversing the film roll across an imaging system including a shutter and lensing system. The user, after utilizing a single film roll returns the camera system to a film development center for processing. The film roll is taken out of the camera system and processed and the prints returned to the user. The camera system can then be re-manufactured through the insertion of a new film roll into the camera system, the replacement of any worn or wearable parts and the re-packaging of the camera system in accordance with requirements. In this way, the concept of a single use \u201cdisposable\u201d camera is provided to the consumer.","Recently, a camera system has been proposed by the present applicant which provides for a handheld camera device having an internal print head, image sensor and processing means such that images sense by the image sensing means, are processed by the processing means and adapted to be instantly printed out by the printing means on demand. The proposed camera system further discloses a system of internal \u201cprint rolls\u201d carrying print media such as film on to which images are to be printed in addition to ink to supplying the printing means for the printing process. The print roll is further disclosed to be detachable and replaceable within the camera system.","Unfortunately, such a system is likely to only be constructed at a substantial cost and it would be desirable to provide for a more inexpensive form of instant camera system which maintains a substantial number of the quality aspects of the aforementioned arrangement.","It would be further advantageous to provide for the effective interconnection of the sub components of a camera system.","According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a printhead re-capping assembly for a printer having a chassis, a platen assembly and a pagewidth printhead operatively mounted on the chassis to carry out a printing operation on print media passing over the platen assembly, the re-capping assembly comprising","a base structure that is mounted on the chassis;","at least one static solenoid that is mounted on the base structure and that is connected to an electrical power supply of the printer;","a support member that is actuable by the solenoid to be movable with respect to the chassis between an operative position and an inoperative position; and","a printhead capping member that is mounted on the support member such that when the support member is in the operative position, the capping member engages the printhead to cap the printhead and when the support member is in the inoperative position, the capping member is disengaged from the printhead.","The support member may be configured to be normally in the operative position and to move into the inoperative position when the solenoid is energized by the electrical power supply.","A biasing mechanism may be engaged with the support member to bias the support member into the operative position when the solenoid is de-energized.","The base structure and the solenoid may both be elongate to correspond with a length of the printhead.","The support member may also be elongate and may correspond generally with the printhead.","The capping member may include a length of sponge that is dimensioned to cover the printhead when the support member is displaced into its operative position.","A sealing member may be positioned on the support member to bound the length of sponge such that, when the length of sponge caps the printhead, the sealing member serves to seal a region about the printhead.","In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided in a camera system comprising: an image sensor device for sensing an image; a processing means for processing the sensed image; a print media supply means for the supply of print media to a print head; a print head for printing the sensed image on the print media stored internally to the camera system; a portable power supply interconnected to the print head, the sensor and the processing means; and a guillotine mechanism located between the print media supply means and the print head and adapted to cut the print media into sheets of a predetermined size.","Further, preferably, the guillotine mechanism is detachable from the camera system. The guillotine mechanism can be attached to the print media supply means and is detachable from the camera system with the print media supply means. The guillotine mechanism can be mounted on a platen unit below the print head.","Turning initially simultaneously to  and  there are illustrated perspective views of an assembled camera constructed in accordance with the preferred embodiment with  showing a front perspective view and  showing a rear perspective view. The camera  includes a paper or plastic film jacket  which can include simplified instructions  for the operation of the camera system . The camera system  includes a first \u201ctake\u201d button  which is depressed to capture an image. The captured image is output via output slot . A further copy of the image can be obtained through depressing a second \u201cprinter copy\u201d button  whilst an LED light  is illuminated. The camera system also provides the usual view finder  in addition to a CCD image capture\/lensing system .","The camera system  provides for a standard number of output prints after which the camera system  ceases to function. A prints left indicator slot  is provided to indicate the number of remaining prints. A refund scheme at the point of purchase is assumed to be operational for the return of used camera systems for recycling.","Turning now to , the assembly of the camera system is based around an internal chassis  which can be a plastic injection molded part. A pair of paper pinch rollers ,  utilized for decurling are snap fitted into corresponding frame holes eg. , .","As shown in , the chassis  includes a series of mutually opposed prongs eg. ,  into which is snapped fitted a series of electric motors , . The electric motors ,  can be entirely standard with the motor  being of a stepper motor type. The motor ,  include cogs ,  for driving a series of gear wheels. A first set of gear wheels is provided for controlling a paper cutter mechanism and a second set is provided for controlling print roll movement.","Turning next to , there is illustrated an ink supply mechanism  utilized in the camera system.  illustrates a back exploded perspective view,  illustrates a back assembled view and  illustrates a front assembled view. The ink supply mechanism  is based around an ink supply cartridge  which contains printer ink and a print head mechanism for printing out pictures on demand. The ink supply cartridge  includes a side aluminium strip  which is provided as a shear strip to assist in cutting images from a paper roll.","A dial mechanism  is provided for indicating the number of \u201cprints left\u201d. The dial mechanism  is snap fitted through a corresponding mating portion  so as to be freely rotatable.","As shown in , the mechanism  includes a flexible PCB strip  which interconnects with the print head and provides for control of the print head. The interconnection between the Flex PCB strip and an image sensor and print head integrated circuit can be via Tape Automated Bonding (TAB) Strips , . A moulded aspherical lens and aperture shim  () is also provided for imaging an image onto the surface of the image sensor integrated circuit normally located within cavity  and a light box module or hood  is provided for snap fitting over the cavity  so as to provide for proper light control. A series of decoupling capacitors eg.  can also be provided. Further a plug  () is provided for re-plugging ink holes after refilling. A series of guide prongs eg. - are further provided for guiding the flexible PCB strip .","The ink supply mechanism  interacts with a platen unit  which guides print media under a printhead located in the ink supply mechanism.  shows an exploded view of the platen unit , while  show assembled views of the platen unit. The platen unit  includes a first pinch roller  which is snap fitted to one side of a platen base . Attached to a second side of the platen base  is a cutting mechanism  which traverses the platen unit  by means of a rod  having a screw thread which is rotated by means of cogged wheel  which is also fitted to the platen base . The screw threaded rod  mounts a block  which includes a cutting wheel  fastened via a fastener . Also mounted to the block  is a counter actuator which includes a pawl . The pawl  acts to rotate the dial mechanism  of  upon the return traversal of the cutting wheel. As shown previously in , the dial mechanism  includes a cogged surface which interacts with pawl , thereby maintaining a count of the number of photographs by means of numbers embossed on the surface of dial mechanism . The cutting mechanism  is inserted into the platen base  by means of a snap fit via clips .","The platen unit  includes an internal recapping mechanism  for recapping the print head when not in use. The recapping mechanism  includes a sponge portion  and is operated via a solenoid coil so as to provide for recapping of the print head. In the preferred embodiment, there is provided an inexpensive form of printhead re-capping mechanism provided for incorporation into a handheld camera system so as to provide for printhead re-capping of an inkjet printhead.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 12","FIG. 8"],"b":["80","75","75","76","62","77","76"]},"A second moveable arm  of the solenoid actuator is also provided. The arm  is moveable and is also made of ferrous material. Mounted on the arm is a sponge portion surrounded by an elastomer strip . The elastomer strip  is of a generally arcuate cross-section and act as a leaf spring against the surface of the printhead ink supply cartridge  () so as to provide for a seal against the surface of the printhead ink supply cartridge . In the quiescent position an elastomer spring unit ,  acts to resiliently deform the elastomer seal  against the surface of the ink supply unit .","When it is desired to operate the printhead unit, upon the insertion of paper, the solenoid coil  is activated so as to cause the arm  to move down to be adjacent to the end plate . The arm  is held against end plate  while the printhead is printing by means of a small \u201ckeeper current\u201d in coil . Simulation results indicate that the keeper current can be significantly less than the actuation current. Subsequently, after photo printing, the paper is guillotined by the cutting mechanism  of  acting against Aluminium Strip , and rewound so as to clear the area of the re-capping mechanism . Subsequently, the current is turned off and springs ,  return the arm  so that the elastomer seal is again resting against the printhead ink supply cartridge.","It can be seen that the preferred embodiment provides for a simple and inexpensive means of re-capping a printhead through the utilisation of a solenoid type device having a long rectangular form. Further, the preferred embodiment utilises minimal power in that currents are only required whilst the device is operational and additionally, only a low keeper current is required whilst the printhead is printing.","Turning next to ,  illustrates an exploded perspective of the ink supply cartridge  whilst  illustrates a close up sectional view of a bottom of the ink supply cartridge with the printhead unit in place. The ink supply cartridge  is based around a pagewidth printhead  which comprises a long slither of silicon having a series of holes etched on the back surface for the supply of ink to a front surface of the silicon wafer for subsequent ejection via a micro electro mechanical system. The form of ejection can be many different forms such as those set out in the tables below.","Of course, many other inkjet technologies, as referred to the attached tables below, can also be utilised when constructing a printhead unit . The fundamental requirement of the ink supply cartridge  is the supply of ink to a series of colour channels etched through the back surface of the printhead . In the description of the preferred embodiment, it is assumed that a three colour printing process is to be utilised so as to provide full colour picture output. Hence, the print supply unit includes three ink supply reservoirs being a cyan reservoir , a magenta reservoir  and a yellow reservoir . Each of these reservoirs is required to store ink and includes a corresponding sponge type material - which assists in stabilising ink within the corresponding ink channel and inhibiting the ink from sloshing back and forth when the printhead is utilised in a handheld camera system. The reservoirs , ,  are formed through the mating of first exterior plastic piece  and a second base piece .","At a first end  of the base piece  a series of air inlet - are provided. Each air inlet leads to a corresponding winding channel which is hydrophobically treated so as to act as an ink repellent and therefore repel any ink that may flow along the air inlet channel. The air inlet channel further takes a convoluted path assisting in resisting any ink flow out of the chambers -. An adhesive tape portion  is provided for sealing the channels within end portion .","At the top end, there is included a series of refill holes (not shown) for refilling corresponding ink supply chambers , , . A plug  is provided for sealing the refill holes.","Turning now to , there is illustrated a close up perspective view, partly in section through the ink supply cartridge  of  when formed as a unit. The ink supply cartridge includes the three colour ink reservoirs , ,  which supply ink to different portions of the back surface of printhead  which includes a series of apertures  defined therein for carriage of the ink to the front surface.","The ink supply cartridge  includes two guide walls ,  which separate the various ink chambers and are tapered into an end portion abutting the surface of the printhead . The guide walls ,  are further mechanically supported by block portions eg.  which are placed at regular intervals along the length of the ink supply unit. The block portions  leave space at portions close to the back of printhead  for the flow of ink around the back surface thereof.","The ink supply unit is preferably formed from a multi-part plastic injection mould and the mould pieces eg. ,  () snap together around the sponge pieces , .","Subsequently, a syringe type device can be inserted in the ink refill holes and the ink reservoirs filled with ink with the air flowing out of the air outlets -. Subsequently, the adhesive tape portion  and plug  are attached and the printhead tested for operation capabilities. Subsequently, the ink supply cartridge  can be readily removed for refilling by means of removing the ink supply cartridge, performing a washing cycle, and then utilising the holes for the insertion of a refill syringe filled with ink for refilling the ink chamber before returning the ink supply cartridge  to a camera.","Turning now to , there is shown an example layout of the Image Capture and Processing integrated circuit (ICP) .","The Image Capture and Processing integrated circuit  provides most of the electronic functionality of the camera with the exception of the print head integrated circuit. The integrated circuit  is a highly integrated system. It combines CMOS image sensing, analog to digital conversion, digital image processing, DRAM storage, ROM, and miscellaneous control functions in a single integrated circuit.","The integrated circuit is estimated to be around 32 mmusing a leading edge 0.18 micron CMOS\/DRAM\/APS process. The integrated circuit size and cost can scale somewhat with Moore's law, but is dominated by a CMOS active pixel sensor array , so scaling is limited as the sensor pixels approach the diffraction limit.","The ICP  includes CMOS logic, a CMOS image sensor, DRAM, and analog circuitry. A very small amount of flash memory or other non-volatile memory is also preferably included for protection against reverse engineering.","Alternatively, the ICP can readily be divided into two integrated circuits: one for the CMOS imaging array, and the other for the remaining circuitry. The cost of this two integrated circuit solution should not be significantly different than the single integrated circuit ICP, as the extra cost of packaging and bond-pad area is somewhat cancelled by the reduced total wafer area requiring the color filter fabrication steps.","The ICP preferably contains the following functions:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Function"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1.5 megapixel image sensor"]},{"entry":[{},"Analog Signal Processors"]},{"entry":[{},"Image sensor column decoders"]},{"entry":[{},"Image sensor row decoders"]},{"entry":[{},"Analogue to Digital Conversion (ADC)"]},{"entry":[{},"Column ADC's"]},{"entry":[{},"Auto exposure"]},{"entry":[{},"12 Mbits of DRAM"]},{"entry":[{},"DRAM Address Generator"]},{"entry":[{},"Color interpolator"]},{"entry":[{},"Convolver"]},{"entry":[{},"Color ALU"]},{"entry":[{},"Halftone matrix ROM"]},{"entry":[{},"Digital halftoning"]},{"entry":[{},"Print head interface"]},{"entry":[{},"8 bit CPU core"]},{"entry":[{},"Program ROM"]},{"entry":[{},"Flash memory"]},{"entry":[{},"Scratchpad SRAM"]},{"entry":[{},"Parallel interface (8 bit)"]},{"entry":[{},"Motor drive transistors (5)"]},{"entry":[{},"Clock PLL"]},{"entry":[{},"JTAG test interface"]},{"entry":[{},"Test circuits"]},{"entry":[{},"Busses"]},{"entry":[{},"Bond pads"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The CPU, DRAM, Image sensor, ROM, Flash memory, Parallel interface, JTAG interface and ADC can be vendor supplied cores. The ICP is intended to run on 1.5V to minimize power consumption and allow convenient operation from two AA type battery cells.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["48","48","201","4"]},"The latest advances in the field of image sensing and CMOS image sensing in particular can be found in the October, 1997 issue of IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices and, in particular, pages 1689 to 1968. Further, a specific implementation similar to that disclosed in the present application is disclosed in Wong et. al, \u201cCMOS Active Pixel Image Sensors Fabricated Using a 1.8V, 0.25 \u03bcm CMOS Technology\u201d, IEDM 1996, page 915","The imaging array uses a 4 transistor active pixel design of a standard configuration. To minimize integrated circuit area and therefore cost, the image sensor pixels should be as small as feasible with the technology available. With a four transistor cell, the typical pixel size scales as 20 times the lithographic feature size. This allows a minimum pixel area of around 3.6 \u03bcm\u00d73.6 \u03bcm. However, the photosite must be substantially above the diffraction limit of the lens. It is also advantageous to have a square photosite, to maximize the margin over the diffraction limit in both horizontal and vertical directions. In this case, the photosite can be specified as 2.5 \u03bcm\u00d72.5 \u03bcm. The photosite can be a photogate, pinned photodiode, charge modulation device, or other sensor.","The four transistors are packed as an \u2018L\u2019 shape, rather than a rectangular region, to allow both the pixel and the photosite to be square. This reduces the transistor packing density slightly, increasing pixel size. However, the advantage in avoiding the diffraction limit is greater than the small decrease in packing density.","The transistors also have a gate length which is longer than the minimum for the process technology. These have been increased from a drawn length of 0.18 micron to a drawn length of 0.36 micron. This is to improve the transistor matching by making the variations in gate length represent a smaller proportion of the total gate length.","The extra gate length, and the \u2018L\u2019 shaped packing, mean that the transistors use more area than the minimum for the technology. Normally, around 8 \u03bcmwould be required for rectangular packing. Preferably, 9.75 \u03bcmhas been allowed for the transistors.","The total area for each pixel is 16 \u03bcm, resulting from a pixel size of 4 \u03bcm\u00d74 \u03bcm. With a resolution of 1,500\u00d71,000, the area of the imaging array 101 is 6,000 \u03bcm\u00d74,000 \u03bcm, or 24 mm.","The presence of a color image sensor on the integrated circuit affects the process required in two major ways:\n\n","Color filters are required. These can be fabricated using dyed photosensitive polyimides, resulting in an added process complexity of three spin coatings, three photolithographic steps, three development steps, and three hardbakes.","There are 15,000 analog signal processors (ASPs) , one for each of the columns of the sensor. The ASPs amplify the signal, provide a dark current reference, sample and hold the signal, and suppress the fixed pattern noise (FPN).","There are 375 analog to digital converters , one for each four columns of the sensor array. These may be delta-sigma or successive approximation type ADC's. A row of low column ADC's are used to reduce the conversion speed required, and the amount of analog signal degradation incurred before the signal is converted to digital. This also eliminates the hot spot (affecting local dark current) and the substrate coupled noise that would occur if a single high speed ADC was used. Each ADC also has two four bit DAC's which trim the offset and scale of the ADC to further reduce FPN variations between columns. These DAC's are controlled by data stored in flash memory during integrated circuit testing.","The column select logic  is a 1:1500 decoder which enables the appropriate digital output of the ADCs onto the output bus. As each ADC is shared by four columns, the least significant two bits of the row select control  input analog multiplexors.","A row decoder  is a 1:1000 decoder which enables the appropriate row of the active pixel sensor array. This selects which of the 1000 rows of the imaging array is connected to analog signal processors. As the rows are always accessed in sequence, the row select logic can be implemented as a shift register.","An auto exposure system  adjusts the reference voltage of the ADC  in response to the maximum intensity sensed during the previous frame period. Data from the green pixels is passed through a digital peak detector. The peak value of the image frame period before capture (the reference frame) is provided to a digital to analogue converter (DAC), which generates the global reference voltage for the column ADCs. The peak detector is reset at the beginning of the reference frame. The minimum and maximum values of the three RGB color components are also collected for color correction.","The second largest section of the integrated circuit is consumed by a DRAM  used to hold the image. To store the 1,500\u00d71,000 image from the sensor without compression, 1.5 Mbytes of DRAM  are required. This equals 12 Mbits, or slightly less than 5% of a 256 Mbit DRAM. The DRAM technology assumed is of the 256 Mbit generation implemented using 0.18 \u03bcm CMOS.","Using a standard 8F cell, the area taken by the memory array is 3.11 mm. When row decoders, column sensors, redundancy, and other factors are taken into account, the DRAM requires around 4 mm.","This DRAM  can be mostly eliminated if analog storage of the image signal can be accurately maintained in the CMOS imaging array for the two seconds required to print the photo. However, digital storage of the image is preferable as it is maintained without degradation, is insensitive to noise, and allows copies of the photo to be printed considerably later.","A DRAM address generator  provides the write and read addresses to the DRAM . Under normal operation, the write address is determined by the order of the data read from the CMOS image sensor . This will typically be a simple raster format. However, the data can be read from the sensor  in any order, if matching write addresses to the DRAM are generated. The read order from the DRAM  will normally simply match the requirements of a color interpolator and the print head. As the cyan, magenta, and yellow rows of the print head are necessarily offset by a few pixels to allow space for nozzle actuators, the colors are not read from the DRAM simultaneously. However, there is plenty of time to read all of the data from the DRAM many times during the printing process. This capability is used to eliminate the need for FIFOs in the print head interface, thereby saving integrated circuit area. All three RGB image components can be read from the DRAM each time color data is required. This allows a color space converter to provide a more sophisticated conversion than a simple linear RGB to CMY conversion.","Also, to allow two dimensional filtering of the image data without requiring line buffers, data is re-read from the DRAM array.","The address generator may also implement image effects in certain models of camera. For example, passport photos are generated by a manipulation of the read addresses to the DRAM. Also, image framing effects (where the central image is reduced), image warps, and kaleidoscopic effects can all be generated by manipulating the read addresses of the DRAM.","While the address generator  may be implemented with substantial complexity if effects are built into the standard integrated circuit, the integrated circuit area required for the address generator is small, as it consists only of address counters and a moderate amount of random logic.","A color interpolator  converts the interleaved pattern of red, 2\u00d7green, and blue pixels into RGB pixels. It consists of three 8 bit adders and associated registers. The divisions are by either 2 (for green) or 4 (for red and blue) so they can be implemented as fixed shifts in the output connections of the adders.","A convolver  is provided as a sharpening filter which applies a small convolution kernel (5\u00d75) to the red, green, and blue planes of the image. The convolution kernel for the green plane is different from that of the red and blue planes, as green has twice as many samples. The sharpening filter has five functions:\n\n","These functions are all combined into a single convolution matrix. As the pixel rate is low (less than 1 Mpixel per second) the total number of multiplies required for the three color channels is 56 million multiplies per second. This can be provided by a single multiplier. Fifty bytes of coefficient ROM are also required.","A color ALU  combines the functions of color compensation and color space conversion into the one matrix multiplication, which is applied to every pixel of the frame. As with sharpening, the color correction should match the most popular settings, rather than the most accurate.","A color compensation circuit of the color ALU provides compensation for the lighting of the photo. The vast majority of photographs are substantially improved by a simple color compensation, which independently normalizes the contrast and brightness of the three color components.","A color look-up table (CLUT)  is provided for each color component. These are three separate 256\u00d78 SRAMs, requiring a total of 6,144 bits. The CLUTs are used as part of the color correction process. They are also used for color special effects, such as stochastically selected \u201cwild color\u201d effects.","A color space conversion system of the color ALU converts from the RGB color space of the image sensor to the CMY color space of the printer. The simplest conversion is a 1's complement of the RGB data. However, this simple conversion assumes perfect linearity of both color spaces, and perfect dye spectra for both the color filters of the image sensor, and the ink dyes. At the other extreme is a tri-linear interpolation of a sampled three dimensional arbitrary transform table. This can effectively match any non-linearity or differences in either color space. Such a system is usually necessary to obtain good color space conversion when the print engine is a color electrophotographic","However, since the non-linearity of a halftoned ink jet output is very small, a simpler system can be used. A simple matrix multiply can provide excellent results. This requires nine multiplies and six additions per contone pixel. However, since the contone pixel rate is low (less than 1 Mpixel\/sec) these operations can share a single multiplier and adder. The multiplier and adder are used in a color ALU which is shared with the color compensation function.","Digital halftoning can be performed as a dispersed dot ordered dither using a stochastic optimized dither cell. A halftone matrix ROM  is provided for storing dither cell coefficients. A dither cell size of 32\u00d732 is adequate to ensure that the cell repeat cycle is not visible. The three colors\u2014cyan, magenta, and yellow\u2014are all dithered using the same cell, to ensure maximum co-positioning of the ink dots. This minimizes \u2018muddying\u2019 of the mid-tones which results from bleed of dyes from one dot to adjacent dots while still wet. The total ROM size required is 1 KByte, as the one ROM is shared by the halftoning units for each of the three colors.","The digital halftoning used is dispersed dot ordered dither with stochastic optimized dither matrix. While dithering does not produce an image quite as \u2018sharp\u2019 as error diffusion, it does produce a more accurate image with fewer artifacts. The image sharpening produced by error diffusion is artificial, and less controllable and accurate than \u2018unsharp mask\u2019 filtering performed in the contone domain. The high print resolution (1,600 dpi\u00d71,600 dpi) results in excellent quality when using a well formed stochastic dither matrix.","Digital halftoning is performed by a digital halftoning unit  using a simple comparison between the contone information from the DRAM  and the contents of the dither matrix . During the halftone process, the resolution of the image is changed from the 250 dpi of the captured contone image to the 1,600 dpi of the printed image. Each contone pixel is converted to an average of 40.96 halftone dots.","The ICP incorporates a 16 bit microcontroller CPU core  to run the miscellaneous camera functions, such as reading the buttons, controlling the motor and solenoids, setting up the hardware, and authenticating the refill station. The processing power required by the CPU is very modest, and a wide variety of processor cores can be used. As the entire CPU program is run from a small ROM [.], program compatibility between camera versions is not important, as no external programs are run. A 2 Mbit (256 Kbyte) program and data ROM  is included on integrated circuit. Most of this ROM space is allocated to data for outline graphics and fonts for specialty cameras. The program requirements are minor. The single most complex task is the encrypted authentication of the refill station. The ROM requires a single transistor per bit.","A Flash memory  may be used to store a 128 bit authentication code. This provides higher security than storage of the authentication code in ROM, as reverse engineering can be made essentially impossible. The Flash memory is completely covered by third level metal, making the data impossible to extract using scanning probe microscopes or electron beams. The authentication code is stored in the integrated circuit when manufactured. At least two other Flash bits are required for the authentication process: a bit which locks out reprogramming of the authentication code, and a bit which indicates that the camera has been refilled by an authenticated refill station. The flash memory can also be used to store FPN correction data for the imaging array. Additionally, a phase locked loop resealing parameter is stored for scaling the clocking cycle to an appropriate correct time. The clock frequency does not require crystal accuracy since no date functions are provided. To eliminate the cost of a crystal, an on integrated circuit oscillator with a phase locked loop  is used. As the frequency of an on-integrated circuit oscillator is highly variable from integrated circuit to integrated circuit, the frequency ratio of the oscillator to the PLL is digitally trimmed during initial testing. The value is stored in Flash memory . This allows the clock PLL to control the ink-jet heater pulse width with sufficient accuracy.","A scratchpad SRAM is a small static RAM  with a 6T cell. The scratchpad provided temporary memory for the 16 bit CPU. 1024 bytes is adequate.","A print head interface  formats the data correctly for the print head. The print head interface also provides all of the timing signals required by the print head. These timing signals may vary depending upon temperature, the number of dots printed simultaneously, the print medium in the print roll, and the dye density of the ink in the print roll.","The following is a table of external connections to the print head interface:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0115"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Connection","Function","Pins"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["DataBits[0-7]","Independent serial data to the eight segments of","8"]},{"entry":[{},"the print head"]},{"entry":["BitClock","Main data clock for the print head","1"]},{"entry":["ColorEnable[0-2]","Independent enable signals for the CMY","3"]},{"entry":[{},"actuators, allowing different pulse times for"]},{"entry":[{},"each color."]},{"entry":["BankEnable[0-1]","Allows either simultaneous or interleaved","2"]},{"entry":[{},"actuation of two banks of nozzles. This allows"]},{"entry":[{},"two different"]},{"entry":[{},"print speed\/power consumption tradeoffs"]},{"entry":["NozzleSelect[0-4]","Selects one of 32 banks of nozzles for","5"]},{"entry":[{},"simultaneous actuation"]},{"entry":["ParallelXferClock","Loads the parallel transfer register with the","1"]},{"entry":[{},"data from the shift registers",{}]},{"entry":["Total",{},"20"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The print head utilized is composed of eight identical segments, each 1.25 cm long. There is no connection between the segments on the print head integrated circuit. Any connections required are made in the external TAB bonding film, which is double sided. The division into eight identical segments is to simplify lithography using wafer steppers. The segment width of 1.25 cm fits easily into a stepper field. As the print head integrated circuit is long and narrow (10 cm\u00d70.3 mm), the stepper field contains a single segment of 32 print head integrated circuits. The stepper field is therefore 1.25 cm\u00d71.6 cm. An average of four complete print heads are patterned in each wafer step.","A single BitClock output line connects to all 8 segments on the print head. The 8 DataBits lines lead one to each segment, and are clocked into the 8 segments on the print head simultaneously (on a BitClock pulse). For example, dot 0 is transferred to segment, dot 750 is transferred to segment, dot 1500 to segmentetc simultaneously.","The ParallelXferClock is connected to each of the 8 segments on the print head, so that on a single pulse, all segments transfer their bits at the same time.","The NozzleSelect, BankEnable and ColorEnable lines are connected to each of the 8 segments, allowing the print head interface to independently control the duration of the cyan, magenta, and yellow nozzle energizing pulses. Registers in the Print Head Interface allow the accurate specification of the pulse duration between 0 and 6 ms, with a typical duration of 2 ms to 3 ms.","A parallel interface  connects the ICP to individual static electrical signals. The CPU is able to control each of these connections as memory mapped I\/O via a low speed bus.","The following is a table of connections to the parallel interface:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0122"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Connection","Direction","Pins"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Paper transport stepper motor","Output","4"]},{"entry":[{},"Capping solenoid","Output","1"]},{"entry":[{},"Copy LED","Output","1"]},{"entry":[{},"Photo button","Input","1"]},{"entry":[{},"Copy button","Input","1"]},{"entry":[{},"Total",{},"8"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Seven high current drive transistors eg.  are required. Four are for the four phases of the main stepper motor, two are for the guillotine motor, and the remaining transistor is to drive the capping solenoid. These transistors are allocated 20,000 square microns (600,000 F) each. As the transistors are driving highly inductive loads, they must either be turned off slowly, or be provided with a high level of back EMF protection. If adequate back EMF protection cannot be provided using the integrated circuit process chosen, then external discrete transistors should be used. The transistors are never driven at the same time as the image sensor is used. This is to avoid voltage fluctuations and hot spots affecting the image quality. Further, the transistors are located as far away from the sensor as possible.","A standard JTAG (Joint Test Action Group) interface  is included in the ICP for testing purposes and for interrogation by the refill station. Due to the complexity of the integrated circuit, a variety of testing techniques are required, including BIST (Built In Self Test) and functional block isolation. An overhead of 10% in integrated circuit area is assumed for integrated circuit testing circuitry for the random logic portions. The overhead for the large arrays the image sensor and the DRAM is smaller.","The JTAG interface is also used for authentication of the refill station. This is included to ensure that the cameras are only refilled with quality paper and ink at a properly constructed refill station, thus preventing inferior quality refills from occurring. The camera must authenticate the refill station, rather than vice versa. The secure protocol is communicated to the refill station during the automated test procedure. Contact is made to four gold plated spots on the ICP\/print head TAB by the refill station as the new ink is injected into the print head.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 17"]},"Turning now to , the assembly of the camera system proceeds via first assembling the ink supply mechanism . The flex PCB is interconnected with batteries  only one of which is shown, which are inserted in the middle portion of a print roll  which is wrapped around a plastic former . An end cap  is provided at the other end of the print roll  so as to fasten the print roll and batteries firmly to the ink supply mechanism.","The solenoid coil is interconnected (not shown) to interconnects ,  () which include leaf spring ends for interconnection with electrical contacts on the Flex PCB so as to provide for electrical control of the solenoid.","Turning now to  the next step in the construction process is the insertion of the relevant gear trains into the side of the camera chassis.  illustrates a front view,  illustrates a rear view and  also illustrates a rear view. The first gear train comprising gear wheels ,  is utilised for driving the guillotine blade with the gear wheel  engaging the gear wheel  of . The second gear train comprising gear wheels ,  and  engage one end of the print roller  of . As best indicated in , the gear wheels mate with corresponding pins on the surface of the chassis with the gear wheel  being snap fitted into corresponding mating hole .","Next, as illustrated in , the assembled platen unit  is then inserted between the print roll  and aluminium cutting blade .","Turning now to , by way of illumination, there is illustrated the electrically interactive components of the camera system. As noted previously, the components are based around a Flex PCB board and include a TAB film  which interconnects the printhead  with the image sensor and processing integrated circuit . Power is supplied by two AA type batteries ,  and a paper drive stepper motor  is provided in addition to a rotary guillotine motor .","An optical element  is provided for snapping into a top portion of the chassis . The optical element  includes portions defining an optical view finder ,  which are slotted into mating portions ,  in view finder channel . Also provided in the optical element  is a lensing system  for magnification of the prints left number in addition to an optical pipe element  for piping light from the LED  for external display.","Turning next to , the assembled unit  is then inserted into a front outer case  which includes button  for activation of printouts.","Turning now to , next, the unit  is provided with a snap-on back cover  which includes a slot  and copy print button . A wrapper label containing instructions and advertising (not shown) is then wrapped around the outer surface of the camera system and pinch clamped to the cover by means of clamp strip  which can comprise a flexible plastic or rubber strip.","Subsequently, the preferred embodiment is ready for use as a one time use camera system that provides for instant output images on demand. It will be evident that the preferred embodiment further provides for a refillable camera system. A used camera can be collected and its outer plastic cases removed and recycled. A new paper roll and batteries can be added and the ink cartridge refilled. A series of automatic test routines can then be carried out to ensure that the printer is properly operational. Further, in order to ensure only authorised refills are conducted so as to enhance quality, routines in the on-integrated circuit program ROM can be executed such that the camera authenticates the refilling station using a secure protocol. Upon authentication, the camera can reset an internal paper count and an external case can be fitted on the camera system with a new outer label. Subsequent packing and shipping can then take place.","It will be further readily evident to those skilled in the art that the program ROM can be modified so as to allow for a variety of digital processing routines. In addition to the digitally enhanced photographs optimised for mainstream consumer preferences, various other models can readily be provided through mere re-programming of the program ROM. For example, a sepia classic old fashion style output can be provided through a remapping of the colour mapping function. A further alternative is to provide for black and white outputs again through a suitable colour remapping algorithm. Minimum colour can also be provided to add a touch of colour to black and white prints to produce the effect that was traditionally used to colourize black and white photos. Further, passport photo output can be provided through suitable address remappings within the address generators. Further, edge filters can be utilised as is known in the field of image processing to produce sketched art styles. Further, classic wedding borders and designs can be placed around an output image in addition to the provision of relevant clip arts. For example, a wedding style camera might be provided. Further, a panoramic mode can be provided so as to output the well known panoramic format of images. Further, a postcard style output can be provided through the printing of postcards including postage on the back of a print roll surface. Further, cliparts can be provided for special events such as Halloween, Christmas etc. Further, kaleidoscopic effects can be provided through address remappings and wild colour effects can be provided through remapping of the colour lookup table. Many other forms of special event cameras can be provided for example, cameras dedicated to the Olympics, movie tie-ins, advertising and other special events.","The operational mode of the camera can be programmed so that upon the depressing of the take photo a first image is sampled by the sensor array to determine irrelevant parameters. Next a second image is again captured which is utilised for the output. The captured image is then manipulated in accordance with any special requirements before being initially output on the paper roll. The LED light is then activated for a predetermined time during which the DRAM is refreshed so as to retain the image. If the print copy button is depressed during this predetermined time interval, a further copy of the photo is output. After the predetermined time interval where no use of the camera has occurred, the onboard CPU shuts down all power to the camera system until such time as the take button is again activated. In this way, substantial power savings can be realized.","Ink Jet Technologies","The embodiments of the invention use an ink jet printer type device. Of course many different devices could be used. However presently popular ink jet printing technologies are unlikely to be suitable.","The most significant problem with thermal inkjet is power consumption. This is approximately 100 times that required for high speed, and stems from the energy-inefficient means of drop ejection. This involves the rapid boiling of water to produce a vapor bubble which expels the ink. Water has a very high heat capacity, and must be superheated in thermal inkjet applications. This leads to an efficiency of around 0.02%, from electricity input to drop momentum (and increased surface area) out.","The most significant problem with piezoelectric inkjet is size and cost. Piezoelectric crystals have a very small deflection at reasonable drive voltages, and therefore require a large area for each nozzle. Also, each piezoelectric actuator must be connected to its drive circuit on a separate substrate. This is not a significant problem at the current limit of around 300 nozzles per print head, but is a major impediment to the fabrication of pagewide print heads with 19,200 nozzles.","Ideally, the inkjet technologies used meet the stringent requirements of in-camera digital color printing and other high quality, high speed, low cost printing applications. To meet the requirements of digital photography, new inkjet technologies have been created. The target features include:","low power (less than 10 Watts)","high resolution capability (1,600 dpi or more)","photographic quality output","low manufacturing cost","small size (pagewidth times minimum cross section)","high speed (<2 seconds per page).","All of these features can be met or exceeded by the inkjet systems described below with differing levels of difficulty. 45 different inkjet technologies have been developed by the Assignee to give a wide range of choices for high volume manufacture. These technologies form part of separate applications assigned to the present Assignee as set out in the table below.","The inkjet designs shown here are suitable for a wide range of digital printing systems, from battery powered one-time use digital cameras, through to desktop and network printers, and through to commercial printing systems","For ease of manufacture using standard process equipment, the print head is designed to be a monolithic 0.5 micron CMOS integrated circuit with MEMS post processing. For color photographic applications, the print head is 100 mm long, with a width which depends upon the inkjet type. The smallest print head designed is IJ38, which is 0.35 mm wide, giving a integrated circuit area of 35 square mm. The print heads each contain 19,200 nozzles plus data and control circuitry.","Ink is supplied to the back of the print head by injection molded plastic ink channels. The molding requires 50 micron features, which can be created using a lithographically micromachined insert in a standard injection molding tool. Ink flows through holes etched through the wafer to the nozzle chambers fabricated on the front surface of the wafer. The print head is connected to the camera circuitry by tape automated bonding.","The following table is a guide to cross-referenced patent applications filed concurrently herewith and discussed hereinafter with the reference being utilized in subsequent tables when referring to a particular case:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0152"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Docket",{},{}]},{"entry":["No.","Reference","Title"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["IJ01US","IJ01","Radiant Plunger Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ02US","IJ02","Electrostatic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ03US","IJ03","Planar Thermoelastic Bend Actuator Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ04US","IJ04","Stacked Electrostatic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ05US","IJ05","Reverse Spring Lever Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ06US","IJ06","Paddle Type Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ07US","IJ07","Permanent Magnet Electromagnetic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ08US","IJ08","Planar Swing Grill Electromagnetic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ09US","IJ09","Pump Action Refill Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ10US","IJ10","Pulsed Magnetic Field Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ11US","IJ11","Two Plate Reverse Firing Electromagnetic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ12US","IJ12","Linear Stepper Actuator Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ13US","IJ13","Gear Driven Shutter Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ14US","IJ14","Tapered Magnetic Pole Electromagnetic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ15US","IJ15","Linear Spring Electromagnetic Grill Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ16US","IJ16","Lorenz Diaphragm Electromagnetic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ17US","IJ17","PTFE Surface Shooting Shuttered Oscillating Pressure Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ18US","IJ18","Buckle Grip Oscillating Pressure Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ19US","IJ19","Shutter Based Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ20US","IJ20","Curling Calyx Thermoelastic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ21US","IJ21","Thermal Actuated Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ22US","IJ22","Iris Motion Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ23US","IJ23","Direct Firing Thermal Bend Actuator Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ24US","IJ24","Conductive PTFE Ben Activator Vented Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ25US","IJ25","Magnetostrictive Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ26US","IJ26","Shape Memory Alloy Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ27US","IJ27","Buckle Plate Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ28US","IJ28","Thermal Elastic Rotary Impeller Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ29US","IJ29","Thermoelastic Bend Actuator Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ30US","IJ30","Thermoelastic Bend Actuator Using PTFE and Corrugated Copper"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ31US","IJ31","Bend Actuator Direct Ink Supply Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ32US","IJ32","A High Young's Modulus Thermoelastic Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ33US","IJ33","Thermally actuated slotted chamber wall ink jet printer"]},{"entry":["IJ34US","IJ34","Ink Jet Printer having a thermal actuator comprising an external"]},{"entry":[{},{},"coiled spring"]},{"entry":["IJ35US","IJ35","Trough Container Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":["IJ36US","IJ36","Dual Chamber Single Vertical Actuator Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ37US","IJ37","Dual Nozzle Single Horizontal Fulcrum Actuator Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ38US","IJ38","Dual Nozzle Single Horizontal Actuator Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ39US","IJ39","A single bend actuator cupped paddle ink jet printing device"]},{"entry":["IJ40US","IJ40","A thermally actuated ink jet printer having a series of thermal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"actuator units"]},{"entry":["IJ41US","IJ41","A thermally actuated ink jet printer including a tapered heater"]},{"entry":[{},{},"element"]},{"entry":["IJ42US","IJ42","Radial Back-Curling Thermoelastic Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ43US","IJ43","Inverted Radial Back-Curling Thermoelastic Ink Jet"]},{"entry":["IJ44US","IJ44","Surface bend actuator vented ink supply ink jet printer"]},{"entry":["IJ45US","IJ45","Coil Acutuated Magnetic Plate Ink Jet Printer"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Eleven important characteristics of the fundamental operation of individual inkjet nozzles have been identified. These characteristics are largely orthogonal, and so can be elucidated as an eleven dimensional matrix. Most of the eleven axes of this matrix include entries developed by the present assignee.","The following tables form the axes of an eleven dimensional table of inkjet types.","Actuator mechanism (18 types)","Basic operation mode (7 types)","Auxiliary mechanism (8 types)","Actuator amplification or modification method (17 types)","Actuator motion (19 types)","Nozzle refill method (4 types)","Method of restricting back-flow through inlet (10 types)","Nozzle clearing method (9 types)","Nozzle plate construction (9 types)","Drop ejection direction (5 types)","Ink type (7 types)","The complete eleven dimensional table represented by these axes contains 36.9 billion possible configurations of inkjet nozzle. While not all of the possible combinations result in a viable inkjet technology, many million configurations are viable. It is clearly impractical to elucidate all of the possible configurations. Instead, certain inkjet types have been investigated in detail. These are designated IJ01 to IJ45 above.","Other inkjet configurations can readily be derived from these 45 examples by substituting alternative configurations along one or more of the 11 axes. Most of the IJ01 to IJ45 examples can be made into inkjet print heads with characteristics superior to any currently available inkjet technology.","Where there are prior art examples known to the inventor, one or more of these examples are listed in the examples column of the tables below. The IJ01 to IJ45 series are also listed in the examples column. In some cases, a printer may be listed more than once in a table, where it shares characteristics with more than one entry.","Suitable applications include: Home printers, Office network printers, Short run digital printers, Commercial print systems, Fabric printers, Pocket printers, Internet WWW printers, Video printers, Medical imaging, Wide format printers, Notebook PC printers, Fax machines, Industrial printing systems, Photocopiers, Photographic minilabs etc.","The information associated with the aforementioned 11 dimensional matrix are set out in the following tables.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0171"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"ACTUATOR MECHANISM (APPLIED ONLY TO SELECTED INK DROPS)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Actuator",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"Mechan-"},{"entry":["ism","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Thermal","An electrothermal heater heats the","1)","Large force generated","6)","High power","16)","Canon"]},{"entry":["bubble","ink to above boiling point,","2)","Simple construction","7)","Ink carrier limited to water",{},"Bubblejet"]},{"entry":[{},"transferring significant heat to the","3)","No moving parts","8)","Low efficiency",{},"1979 Endo"]},{"entry":[{},"aqueous ink. A bubble nucleates","4)","Fast operation","9)","High temperatures required",{},"et al GB"]},{"entry":[{},"and quickly forms, expelling the","5)","Small integrated circuit","10)","High mechanical stress",{},"patent"]},{"entry":[{},"ink.",{},"area required for actuator","11)","Unusual materials required",{},"2,007,162"]},{"entry":[{},"The efficiency of the process is",{},{},"12)","Large drive transistors","17)","Xerox"]},{"entry":[{},"low, with typically less than",{},{},"13)","Cavitation causes actuator",{},"heater-"]},{"entry":[{},"0.05% of the electrical energy",{},{},{},"failure",{},"in-pit"]},{"entry":[{},"being transformed into kinetic",{},{},"14)","Kogation reduces bubble",{},"1990"]},{"entry":[{},"energy of the drop.",{},{},{},"formation",{},"Hawkins et"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"15)","Large print heads are difficult",{},"al U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"to fabricate",{},"No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"4,899,181"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"18)","Hewlett-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Packard"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"TIJ 1982"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Vaught et"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"al U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"4,490,728"]},{"entry":["Piezoelec-","A piezoelectric crystal such as","19)","Low power","23)","Very large area required for","28)","Kyser et al"]},{"entry":["tric","lead lanthanum zirconate (PZT) is",{},"consumption",{},"actuator",{},"U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},"electrically activated, and either","20)","Many ink types can","24)","Difficult to integrate with",{},"No."]},{"entry":[{},"expands, shears, or bends to apply",{},"be used",{},"electronics",{},"3,946,398"]},{"entry":[{},"pressure to the ink, ejecting drops.","21)","Fast operation","25)","High voltage drive transistors","29)","Zoltan U.S."]},{"entry":[{},{},"22)","High efficiency",{},"required",{},"Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"26)","Full pagewidth print heads",{},"3,683,212"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"impractical due to actuator size","30)","1973"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"27)","Requires electrical poling in",{},"Stemme"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"high field strengths during",{},"U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"manufacture",{},"No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"3,747,120"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"31)","Epson Stylus"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"32)","Tektronix"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"33)","IJ04"]},{"entry":["Electro-","An electric field is used to","34)","Low power","39)","Low maximum strain (approx.","44)","Seiko Epson,"]},{"entry":["strictive","activate electrostriction in relaxor",{},"consumption",{},"0.01%)",{},"Usui et all JP"]},{"entry":[{},"materials such as lead lanthanum","35)","Many ink types can","40)","Large area required for",{},"253401\/96"]},{"entry":[{},"zirconate titanate (PLZT) or lead",{},"be used",{},"actuator due to low strain","45)","IJ04"]},{"entry":[{},"magnesium niobate (PMN).","36)","Low thermal","41)","Response speed is marginal (~10 \u03bcs)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"expansion","42)","High voltage drive transistors"]},{"entry":[{},{},"37)","Electric field",{},"required"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"strength required (approx.","43)","Full pagewidth print heads"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"3.5 V\/\u03bcm) can be",{},"impractical due to actuator size"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"generated without"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"difficulty"]},{"entry":[{},{},"38)","Does not require"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"electrical poling"]},{"entry":["Ferroelec-","An electric field is used to induce","46)","Low power","52)","Difficult to integrate with","55)","IJ04"]},{"entry":["tric","a phase transition between the",{},"consumption",{},"electronics"]},{"entry":[{},"antiferroelectric (AFE) and","47)","Many ink types can","53)","Unusual materials such as"]},{"entry":[{},"ferroelectric (FE) phase.",{},"be used",{},"PLZSnT are required"]},{"entry":[{},"Perovskite materials such as tin","48)","Fast operation (<1 \u03bcs)","54)","Actuators require a large area"]},{"entry":[{},"modified lead lanthanum","49)","Relatively high"]},{"entry":[{},"zirconate titanate (PLZSnT)",{},"longitudinal strain"]},{"entry":[{},"exhibit large strains of up to 1%","50)","High efficiency"]},{"entry":[{},"associated with the AFE to FE","51)","Electric field"]},{"entry":[{},"phase transition.",{},"strength of around 3 V\/\u03bcm"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"can be readily"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"provided"]},{"entry":["Electro-","Conductive plates are separated","56)","Low power","59)","Difficult to operate","64)","IJ02, IJ04"]},{"entry":["static","by a compressible or fluid",{},"consumption",{},"electrostatic devices in an aqueous"]},{"entry":["plates","dielectric (usually air). Upon","57)","Many ink types can",{},"environment"]},{"entry":[{},"application of a voltage, the plates",{},"be used","60)","The electrostatic actuator will"]},{"entry":[{},"attract each other and displace","58)","Fast operation",{},"normally need to be separated from"]},{"entry":[{},"ink, causing drop ejection. The",{},{},{},"the ink"]},{"entry":[{},"conductive plates may be in a",{},{},"61)","Very large area required to"]},{"entry":[{},"comb or honeycomb structure, or",{},{},{},"achieve high forces"]},{"entry":[{},"stacked to increase the surface",{},{},"62)","High voltage drive transistors"]},{"entry":[{},"area and therefore the force.",{},{},{},"may be required"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"63)","Full pagewidth print heads are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"not competitive due to actuator size"]},{"entry":["Electro-","A strong electric field is applied","65)","Low current","67)","High voltage required","72)","1989 Saito et"]},{"entry":["static","to the ink, whereupon electrostatic",{},"consumption","68)","May be damaged by sparks due",{},"al, U.S."]},{"entry":["pull on ink","attraction accelerates the ink","66)","Low temperature",{},"to air breakdown",{},"Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"towards the print medium.",{},{},"69)","Required field strength",{},"4,799,068"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"increases as the drop size decreases","73)","1989 Miura"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"70)","High voltage drive transistors",{},"et al, U.S."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"required",{},"Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"71)","Electrostatic field attracts dust",{},"4,810,954"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"74)","Tone-jet"]},{"entry":["Permanent","An electromagnet directly attracts","75)","Low power","80)","Complex fabrication","86)","IJ07, IJ10"]},{"entry":["magnet","a permanent magnet, displacing",{},"consumption","81)","Permanent magnetic material"]},{"entry":["electro-","ink and causing drop ejection.","76)","Many ink types can",{},"such as Neodymium Iron Boron"]},{"entry":["magnetic","Rare earth magnets with a field",{},"be used",{},"(NdFeB) required."]},{"entry":[{},"strength around 1 Tesla can be","77)","Fast operation","82)","High local currents required"]},{"entry":[{},"used. Examples are: Samarium","78)","High efficiency","83)","Copper metalization should be"]},{"entry":[{},"Cobalt (SaCo) and magnetic","79)","Easy extension from",{},"used for long electromigration"]},{"entry":[{},"materials in the neodymium iron",{},"single nozzles to",{},"lifetime and low resistivity"]},{"entry":[{},"boron family (NdFeB,",{},"pagewidth print heads","84)","Pigmented inks are usually"]},{"entry":[{},"NdDyFeBNb, NdDyFeB, etc)",{},{},{},"infeasible"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"85)","Operating temperature limited"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"to the Curie temperature (around"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"540 K)"]},{"entry":["Soft","A solenoid induced a magnetic","87)","Low power","92)","Complex fabrication","98)","IJ01, IJ05,"]},{"entry":["magnetic","field in a soft magnetic core or",{},"consumption","93)","Materials not usually present in",{},"IJ08, IJ10"]},{"entry":["core","yoke fabricated from a ferrous","88)","Many ink types can",{},"a CMOS fab such as NiFe, CoNiFe,","99)","IJ12, IJ14,"]},{"entry":["electro-","material such as electroplated iron",{},"be used",{},"or CoFe are required",{},"IJ15, IJ17"]},{"entry":["magnetic","alloys such as CoNiFe [1], CoFe,","89)","Fast operation","94)","High local currents required"]},{"entry":[{},"or NiFe alloys. Typically, the soft","90)","High efficiency","95)","Copper metalization should be"]},{"entry":[{},"magnetic material is in two parts,","91)","Easy extension from",{},"used for long electromigration"]},{"entry":[{},"which are normally held apart by",{},"single nozzles to",{},"lifetime and low resistivity"]},{"entry":[{},"a spring. When the solenoid is",{},"pagewidth print heads","96)","Electroplating is required"]},{"entry":[{},"actuated, the two parts attract,",{},{},"97)","High saturation flux density is"]},{"entry":[{},"displacing the ink.",{},{},{},"required (2.0-2.1 T is achievable"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"with CoNiFe [1])"]},{"entry":["Magnetic","The Lorenz force acting on a","100)","Low power","105)","Force acts as a twisting motion","110)","IJ06, IJ11,"]},{"entry":["Lorenz","current carrying wire in a",{},"consumption","106)","Typically, only a quarter of the",{},"IJ13, IJ16"]},{"entry":["force","magnetic field is utilized.","101)","Many ink types can",{},"solenoid length provides force in a"]},{"entry":[{},"This allows the magnetic field to",{},"be used",{},"useful direction"]},{"entry":[{},"be supplied externally to the print","102)","Fast operation","107)","High local currents required"]},{"entry":[{},"head, for example with rare earth","103)","High efficiency","108)","Copper metalization should be"]},{"entry":[{},"permanent magnets.","104)","Easy extension from",{},"used for long electromigration"]},{"entry":[{},"Only the current carrying wire",{},"single nozzles to",{},"lifetime and low resistivity"]},{"entry":[{},"need be fabricated on the print-",{},"pagewidth print heads","109)","Pigmented inks are usually"]},{"entry":[{},"head, simplifying materials",{},{},{},"infeasible"]},{"entry":[{},"requirements."]},{"entry":["Magneto-","The actuator uses the giant","111)","Many ink types can","115)","Force acts as a twisting motion","120)","Fischenbeck,"]},{"entry":["striction","magnetostrictive effect of",{},"be used","116)","Unusual materials such as",{},"U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},"materials such as Terfenol-D (an","112)","Fast operation",{},"Terfenol-D are required",{},"No."]},{"entry":[{},"alloy of terbium, dysprosium and","113)","Easy extension from","117)","High local currents required",{},"4,032,929"]},{"entry":[{},"iron developed at the Naval",{},"single nozzles to","118)","Copper metalization should be","121)","IJ25"]},{"entry":[{},"Ordnance Laboratory, hence Ter-",{},"pagewidth print heads",{},"used for long electromigration"]},{"entry":[{},"Fe-NOL). For best efficiency, the","114)","High force is",{},"lifetime and low resistivity"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator should be pre-stressed to",{},"available","119)","Pre-stressing may be required"]},{"entry":[{},"approx. 8 MPa."]},{"entry":["Surface","Ink under positive pressure is held","122)","Low power","127)","Requires supplementary force","130)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["tension","in a nozzle by surface tension.",{},"consumption",{},"to effect drop separation",{},"EP 0771"]},{"entry":["reduction","The surface tension of the ink is","123)","Simple construction","128)","Requires special ink",{},"658 A2 and"]},{"entry":[{},"reduced below the bubble","124)","No unusual materials",{},"surfactants",{},"related"]},{"entry":[{},"threshold, causing the ink to",{},"required in fabrication","129)","Speed may be limited by",{},"patent"]},{"entry":[{},"egress from the nozzle.","125)","High efficiency",{},"surfactant properties",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},{},"126)","Easy extension from"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"single nozzles to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pagewidth print heads"]},{"entry":["Viscosity","The ink viscosity is locally","131)","Simple construction","134)","Requires supplementary force","139)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["reduction","reduced to select which drops are","132)","No unusual materials",{},"to effect drop separation",{},"EP 0771 658"]},{"entry":[{},"to be ejected. A viscosity",{},"required in fabrication","135)","Requires special ink viscosity",{},"A2 and"]},{"entry":[{},"reduction can be achieved","133)","Easy extension from",{},"properties",{},"related"]},{"entry":[{},"electrothermally with most inks,",{},"single nozzles to","136)","High speed is difficult to",{},"patent"]},{"entry":[{},"but special inks can be engineered",{},"pagewidth print heads",{},"achieve",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"for a 100:1 viscosity reduction.",{},{},"137)","Requires oscillating ink"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"pressure"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"138)","A high temperature difference"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"(typically 80 degrees) is required"]},{"entry":["Acoustic","An acoustic wave is generated and","140)","Can operate without","141)","Complex drive circuitry","146)","1993"]},{"entry":[{},"focussed upon the drop ejection",{},"a nozzle plate","142)","Complex fabrication",{},"Hadimioglu"]},{"entry":[{},"region.",{},{},"143)","Low efficiency",{},"et al, EUP"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"144)","Poor control of drop position",{},"550,192"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"145)","Poor control of drop volume","147)","1993 Elrod"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"et al, EUP"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"572,220"]},{"entry":["Thermo-","An actuator which relies upon","148)","Low power","157)","Efficient aqueous operation","160)","IJ03, IJ09,"]},{"entry":["elastic","differential thermal expansion",{},"consumption",{},"requires a thermal insulator on the",{},"IJ17, 1J18"]},{"entry":["bend","upon Joule heating is used.","149)","Many ink types can",{},"hot side","161)","IJ19, IJ20,"]},{"entry":["actuator",{},{},"be used","158)","Corrosion prevention can be",{},"IJ21, IJ22"]},{"entry":[{},{},"150)","Simple planar",{},"difficult","162)","IJ23, IJ24,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"fabrication","159)","Pigmented inks may be",{},"IJ27, IJ28"]},{"entry":[{},{},"151)","Small integrated",{},"infeasible, as pigment particles may","163)","IJ29, IJ30,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"circuit area required for",{},"jam the bend actuator",{},"IJ31, IJ32"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"each actuator",{},{},"164)","IJ33, IJ34,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"152)","Fast operation",{},{},{},"IJ35, IJ36"]},{"entry":[{},{},"153)","High efficiency",{},{},"165)","IJ37, IJ38,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"154)","CMOS compatible",{},{},{},"IJ39, IJ40"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"voltages and currents",{},{},"166)","IJ41"]},{"entry":[{},{},"155)","Standard MEMS"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"processes can be used"]},{"entry":[{},{},"156)","Easy extension from"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"single nozzles to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pagewidth print heads"]},{"entry":["High CTE","A material with a very high","167)","High force can be","177)","Requires special material (e.g.","181)","IJ09, IJ17,"]},{"entry":["thermo-","coefficient of thermal expansion",{},"generated",{},"PTFE)",{},"IJ18, IJ20"]},{"entry":["elastic","(CTE) such as","168)","PTFE is a candidate","178)","Requires a PTFE deposition","182)","IJ21, IJ22,"]},{"entry":["actuator","polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is",{},"for low dielectric constant",{},"process, which is not yet standard in",{},"IJ23, IJ24"]},{"entry":[{},"used. As high CTE materials are",{},"insulation in ULSI",{},"ULSI fabs","183)","IJ27, IJ28,"]},{"entry":[{},"usually non-conductive, a heater","169)","Very low power","179)","PTFE deposition cannot be",{},"IJ29, IJ30"]},{"entry":[{},"fabricated from a conductive",{},"consumption",{},"followed with high temperature","184)","IJ31, IJ42,"]},{"entry":[{},"material is incorporated. A 50 \u03bcm","170)","Many ink types can",{},"(above 350\u00b0 C.) processing",{},"IJ43, IJ44"]},{"entry":[{},"long PTFE bend actuator with",{},"be used","180)","Pigmented inks may be"]},{"entry":[{},"polysilicon heater and 15 mW","171)","Simple planar",{},"infeasible, as pigment particles may"]},{"entry":[{},"power input can provide 180 \u03bcN",{},"fabrication",{},"jam the bend actuator"]},{"entry":[{},"force and 10 \u03bcm deflection.","172)","Small integrated"]},{"entry":[{},"Actuator motions include:",{},"circuit area required for"]},{"entry":[{},"Bend",{},"each actuator"]},{"entry":[{},"Push","173)","Fast operation"]},{"entry":[{},"Buckle","174)","High efficiency"]},{"entry":[{},"Rotate","175)","CMOS compatible"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"voltages and currents"]},{"entry":[{},{},"176)","Easy extension from"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"single nozzles to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pagewidth print heads"]},{"entry":["Conduc-","A polymer with a high coefficient","185)","High force can be","194)","Requires special materials","199)","IJ24"]},{"entry":["tive","of thermal expansion (such as",{},"generated",{},"development (High CTE conductive"]},{"entry":["polymer","PTFE) is doped with conducting","186)","Very low power",{},"polymer)"]},{"entry":["thermoe-","substances to increase its",{},"consumption","195)","Requires a PTFE deposition"]},{"entry":["lastic","conductivity to about 3 orders of","187)","Many ink types can",{},"process, which is not yet standard in"]},{"entry":["actuator","magnitude below that of copper.",{},"be used",{},"ULSI fabs"]},{"entry":[{},"The conducting polymer expands","188)","Simple planar","196)","PTFE deposition cannot be"]},{"entry":[{},"when resistively heated.",{},"fabrication",{},"followed with high temperature"]},{"entry":[{},"Examples of conducting dopants","189)","Small integrated",{},"(above 350\u00b0 C.) processing"]},{"entry":[{},"include:",{},"circuit area required for","197)","Evaporation and CVD"]},{"entry":[{},"Carbon nanotubes",{},"each actuator",{},"deposition techniques cannot be"]},{"entry":[{},"Metal fibers","190)","Fast operation",{},"used"]},{"entry":[{},"Conductive polymers such as","191)","High efficiency","198)","Pigmented inks may be"]},{"entry":[{},"doped polythiophene","192)","CMOS compatible",{},"infeasible, as pigment particles may"]},{"entry":[{},"Carbon granules",{},"voltages and currents",{},"jam the bend actuator"]},{"entry":[{},{},"193)","Easy extension from"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"single nozzles to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pagewidth print heads"]},{"entry":["Shape","A shape memory alloy such as","200)","High force is","206)","Fatigue limits maximum","213)","IJ26"]},{"entry":["memory","TiNi (also known as Nitinol -",{},"available (stresses of",{},"number of cycles"]},{"entry":["alloy","Nickel Titanium alloy developed",{},"hundreds of MPa)","207)","Low strain (1%) is required to"]},{"entry":[{},"at the Naval Ordnance","201)","Large strain is",{},"extend fatigue resistance"]},{"entry":[{},"Laboratory) is thermally switched",{},"available (more than 3%)","208)","Cycle rate limited by heat"]},{"entry":[{},"between its weak martensitic state","202)","High corrosion",{},"removal"]},{"entry":[{},"and its high stiffness austenic",{},"resistance","209)","Requires unusual materials"]},{"entry":[{},"state. The shape of the actuator in","203)","Simple construction",{},"(TiNi)"]},{"entry":[{},"its martensitic state is deformed","204)","Easy extension from","210)","The latent heat of"]},{"entry":[{},"relative to the austenic shape. The",{},"single nozzles to",{},"transformation must be provided"]},{"entry":[{},"shape change causes ejection of a",{},"pagewidth print heads","211)","High current operation"]},{"entry":[{},"drop.","205)","Low voltage","212)","Requires pre-stressing to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"operation",{},"distort the martensitic state"]},{"entry":["Linear","Linear magnetic actuators include","214)","Linear Magnetic","218)","Requires unusual","222)","IJ12"]},{"entry":["Magnetic","the Linear Induction Actuator",{},"actuators can be",{},"semiconductor materials such as"]},{"entry":["Actuator","(LIA), Linear Permanent Magnet",{},"constructed with high",{},"soft magnetic alloys (e.g. CoNiFe"]},{"entry":[{},"Synchronous Actuator (LPMSA),",{},"thrust, long travel, and",{},"[1])"]},{"entry":[{},"Linear Reluctance Synchronous",{},"high efficiency using","219)","Some varieties also require"]},{"entry":[{},"Actuator (LRSA), Linear",{},"planar semiconductor",{},"permanent magnetic materials such"]},{"entry":[{},"Switched Reluctance Actuator",{},"fabrication techniques",{},"as Neodymium iron boron (NdFeB)"]},{"entry":[{},"(LSRA), and the Linear Stepper","215)","Long actuator travel","220)","Requires complex multi-phase"]},{"entry":[{},"Actuator (LSA).",{},"is available",{},"drive circuitry"]},{"entry":[{},{},"216)","Medium force is","221)","High current operation"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"available"]},{"entry":[{},{},"217)","Low voltage"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"operation"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0172"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"BASIC OPERATION MODE"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Opera-",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"tional"},{"entry":["mode","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Actuator","This is the simplest mode of","223)","Simple operation","227)","Drop repetition rate is usually","230)","Thermal inkjet"]},{"entry":["directly","operation: the actuator directly","224)","No external fields",{},"limited to less than 10 KHz.","231)","Piezoelectric"]},{"entry":["pushes","supplies sufficient kinetic energy",{},"required",{},"However, this is not fundamental to",{},"inkjet"]},{"entry":["ink","to expel the drop. The drop must","225)","Satellite drops can",{},"the method, but is related to the","232)","IJ01, IJ02,"]},{"entry":[{},"have a sufficient velocity to",{},"be avoided if drop",{},"refill method normally used",{},"IJ03, IJ04"]},{"entry":[{},"overcome the surface tension.",{},"velocity is less than","228)","All of the drop kinetic energy","233)","IJ05, IJ06,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"4 m\/s",{},"must be provided by the actuator",{},"IJ07, IJ09"]},{"entry":[{},{},"226)","Can be efficient,","229)","Satellite drops usually form if","234)","IJ11, IJ12,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depending upon the",{},"drop velocity is greater than 4.5 m\/s",{},"IJ14, IJ16"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"actuator used",{},{},"235)","IJ20, IJ22,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ23, IJ24"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"236)","IJ25, IJ26,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ27, IJ28"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"237)","IJ29, IJ30,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ31, IJ32"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"238)","IJ33, IJ34,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ35, IJ36"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"239)","IJ37, IJ38,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ39, IJ40"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"240)","IJ41, IJ42,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ43, IJ44"]},{"entry":["Proximity","The drops to be printed are","241)","Very simple print","243)","Requires close proximity","246)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":[{},"selected by some manner (e.g.",{},"head fabrication can be",{},"between the print head and the print",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"thermally induced surface tension",{},"used",{},"media or transfer roller",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"reduction of pressurized ink).","242)","The drop selection","244)","May require two print heads",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"Selected drops are separated from",{},"means does not need",{},"printing alternate rows of the image"]},{"entry":[{},"the ink in the nozzle by contact",{},"to provide the energy","245)","Monolithic color print heads"]},{"entry":[{},"with the print medium or a",{},"required to separate",{},"are difficult"]},{"entry":[{},"transfer roller.",{},"the drop from the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"nozzle"]},{"entry":["Electro-","The drops to be printed are","247)","Very simple print","249)","Requires very high","252)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["static","selected by some manner (e.g.",{},"head fabrication can be",{},"electrostatic field",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["pull on ink","thermally induced surface tension",{},"used","250)","Electrostatic field for small",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"reduction of pressurized ink).","248)","The drop selection",{},"nozzle sizes is above air breakdown",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"Selected drops are separated from",{},"means does not need","251)","Electrostatic field may attract","253)","Tone-Jet"]},{"entry":[{},"the ink in the nozzle by a strong",{},"to provide the energy",{},"dust"]},{"entry":[{},"electric field.",{},"required to separate"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the drop from the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"nozzle"]},{"entry":["Magnetic","The drops to be printed are","254)","Very simple print","256)","Requires magnetic ink","259)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["pull on ink","selected by some manner (e.g.",{},"head fabrication can be","257)","Ink colors other than black are",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"thermally induced surface tension",{},"used",{},"difficult",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"reduction of pressurized ink).","255)","The drop selection","258)","Requires very high magnetic",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"Selected drops are separated from",{},"means does not need",{},"fields"]},{"entry":[{},"the ink in the nozzle by a strong",{},"to provide the energy"]},{"entry":[{},"magnetic field acting on the",{},"required to separate"]},{"entry":[{},"magnetic ink.",{},"the drop from the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"nozzle"]},{"entry":["Shutter","The actuator moves a shutter to","260)","High speed (>50 KHz)","263)","Moving parts are required","267)","IJ13, IJ17,"]},{"entry":[{},"block ink flow to the nozzle. The",{},"operation can be","264)","Requires ink pressure",{},"IJ21"]},{"entry":[{},"ink pressure is pulsed at a",{},"achieved due to",{},"modulator"]},{"entry":[{},"multiple of the drop ejection",{},"reduced refill time","265)","Friction and wear must be"]},{"entry":[{},"frequency.","261)","Drop timing can be",{},"considered"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"very accurate","266)","Stiction is possible"]},{"entry":[{},{},"262)","The actuator energy"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"can be very low"]},{"entry":["Shuttered","The actuator moves a shutter to","268)","Actuators with small","271)","Moving parts are required","275)","IJ08, IJ15,"]},{"entry":["grill","block ink flow through a grill to",{},"travel can be used","272)","Requires ink pressure",{},"IJ18, IJ19"]},{"entry":[{},"the nozzle. The shutter movement","269)","Actuators with small",{},"modulator"]},{"entry":[{},"need only be equal to the width of",{},"force can be used","273)","Friction and wear must be"]},{"entry":[{},"the grill holes.","270)","High speed (>50 KHz)",{},"considered"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"operation can be","274)","Stiction is possible"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"achieved"]},{"entry":["Pulsed","A pulsed magnetic field attracts","276)","Extremely low","278)","Requires an external pulsed","281)","IJ10"]},{"entry":["magnetic","an \u2018ink pusher\u2019 at the drop",{},"energy operation is",{},"magnetic field"]},{"entry":["pull on","ejection frequency. An actuator",{},"possible","279)","Requires special materials for"]},{"entry":["ink","controls a catch, which prevents","277)","No heat dissipation",{},"both the actuator and the ink pusher"]},{"entry":["pusher","the ink pusher from moving when",{},"problems","280)","Complex construction"]},{"entry":[{},"a drop is not to be ejected."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0173"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"AUXILIARY MECHANISM (APPLIED TO ALL NOZZLES)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Auxiliary",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Mechanism","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["None","The actuator directly fires the ink","282)","Simplicity of","285)","Drop ejection energy must be","286)","Most inkjets,"]},{"entry":[{},"drop, and there is no external field",{},"construction",{},"supplied by individual nozzle",{},"including"]},{"entry":[{},"or other mechanism required.","283)","Simplicity of",{},"actuator",{},"piezoelectric and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"operation",{},{},{},"thermal bubble."]},{"entry":[{},{},"284)","Small physical size",{},{},"287)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ09, IJ11"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"288)","IJ12, IJ14,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ20, IJ22"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"289)","IJ23-IJ45"]},{"entry":["Oscillating","The ink pressure oscillates,","290)","Oscillating ink","293)","Requires external ink pressure","296)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["ink","providing much of the drop",{},"pressure can provide a",{},"oscillator",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["pressure","ejection energy. The actuator",{},"refill pulse, allowing","294)","Ink pressure phase and",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":["(including","selects which drops are to be fired",{},"higher operating speed",{},"amplitude must be carefully",{},"applications"]},{"entry":["acoustic","by selectively blocking or","291)","The actuators may",{},"controlled","297)","IJ08, IJ13,"]},{"entry":["stimulation)","enabling nozzles. The ink pressure",{},"operate with much","295)","Acoustic reflections in the ink",{},"IJ15, IJ17"]},{"entry":[{},"oscillation may be achieved by",{},"lower energy",{},"chamber must be designed for","298)","IJ18, IJ19,"]},{"entry":[{},"vibrating the print head, or","292)","Acoustic lenses can",{},{},{},"IJ21"]},{"entry":[{},"preferably by an actuator in the",{},"be used to focus the"]},{"entry":[{},"ink supply.",{},"sound on the nozzles"]},{"entry":["Media","The print head is placed in close","299)","Low power","302)","Precision assembly required","305)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["proximity","proximity to the print medium.","300)","High accuracy","303)","Paper fibers may cause",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"Selected drops protrude from the","301)","Simple print head",{},"problems",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"print head further than unselected",{},"construction","304)","Cannot print on rough",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"drops, and contact the print",{},{},{},"substrates"]},{"entry":[{},"medium. The drop soaks into the"]},{"entry":[{},"medium fast enough to cause drop"]},{"entry":[{},"separation."]},{"entry":["Transfer","Drops are printed to a transfer","306)","High accuracy","309)","Bulky","312)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["roller","roller instead of straight to the","307)","Wide range of print","310)","Expensive",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"print medium. A transfer roller",{},"substrates can be used","311)","Complex construction",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"can also be used for proximity","308)","Ink can be dried on",{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"drop separation.",{},"the transfer roller",{},{},"313)","Tektronix hot"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"melt piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"314)","Any of the IJ"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"series"]},{"entry":["Electrostatic","An electric field is used to","315)","Low power","317)","Field strength required for","318)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":[{},"accelerate selected drops towards","316)","Simple print head",{},"separation of small drops is near or",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"the print medium.",{},"construction",{},"above air breakdown",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"319)","Tone-Jet"]},{"entry":["Direct","A magnetic field is used to","320)","Low power","322)","Requires magnetic ink","324)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["magnetic","accelerate selected drops of","321)","Simple print head","323)","Requires strong magnetic field",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["field","magnetic ink towards the print",{},"construction",{},{},{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"medium.",{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":["Cross","The print head is placed in a","325)","Does not require","326)","Requires external magnet","328)","IJ06, IJ16"]},{"entry":["magnetic","constant magnetic field. The",{},"magnetic materials","327)","Current densities may be high,"]},{"entry":["field","Lorenz force in a current carrying",{},"to be integrated in",{},"resulting in electromigration"]},{"entry":[{},"wire is used to move the actuator.",{},"the print head",{},"problems"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"manufacturing process"]},{"entry":["Pulsed","A pulsed magnetic field is used to","329)","Very low power","331)","Complex print head","333)","IJ10"]},{"entry":["magnetic","cyclically attract a paddle, which",{},"operation is possible",{},"construction"]},{"entry":["field","pushes on the ink. A small","330)","Small print head size","332)","Magnetic materials required in"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator moves a catch, which",{},{},{},"print head"]},{"entry":[{},"selectively prevents the paddle"]},{"entry":[{},"from moving."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0174"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"ACTUATOR AMPLIFICATION OR MODIFICATION METHOD"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Actuator",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"amplifi-"},{"entry":["cation","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["None","No actuator mechanical","334)","Operational","335)","Many actuator mechanisms","336)","Thermal"]},{"entry":[{},"amplification is used. The actuator",{},"simplicity",{},"have insufficient travel, or",{},"Bubble Inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},"directly drives the drop ejection",{},{},{},"insufficient force, to efficiently","337)","IJ01, IJ02,"]},{"entry":[{},"process.",{},{},{},"drive the drop ejection process",{},"IJ06, IJ07"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"338)","IJ16, IJ25,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ26"]},{"entry":["Differ-","An actuator material expands","339)","Provides greater","341)","High stresses are involved","344)","Piezoelectric"]},{"entry":["ential","more on one side than on the",{},"travel in a reduced print","342)","Care must be taken that the","345)","IJ03, IJ09,"]},{"entry":["expansion","other. The expansion may be",{},"head area",{},"materials do not delaminate",{},"IJ17-IJ24"]},{"entry":["bend","thermal, piezoelectric,","340)","The bend actuator","343)","Residual bend resulting from","346)","IJ27, IJ29-IJ39,"]},{"entry":["actuator","magnetostrictive, or other",{},"converts a high force low",{},"high temperature or high stress",{},"IJ42,"]},{"entry":[{},"mechanism.",{},"travel actuator",{},"during formation","347)","IJ43, IJ44"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"mechanism to high travel,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"lower force mechanism."]},{"entry":["Transient","A trilayer bend actuator where the","348)","Very good","351)","High stresses are involved","353)","IJ40, IJ41"]},{"entry":["bend","two outside layers are identical.",{},"temperature stability","352)","Care must be taken that the"]},{"entry":["actuator","This cancels bend due to ambient","349)","High speed, as a new",{},"materials do not delaminate"]},{"entry":[{},"temperature and residual stress.",{},"drop can be fired before"]},{"entry":[{},"The actuator only responds to",{},"heat dissipates"]},{"entry":[{},"transient heating of one side or the","350)","Cancels residual"]},{"entry":[{},"other.",{},"stress of formation"]},{"entry":["Actuator","A series of thin actuators are","354)","Increased travel","356)","Increased fabrication","358)","Some"]},{"entry":["stack","stacked. This can be appropriate","355)","Reduced drive",{},"complexity",{},"piezoelectric ink"]},{"entry":[{},"where actuators require high",{},"voltage","357)","Increased possibility of short",{},"jets"]},{"entry":[{},"electric field strength, such as",{},{},{},"circuits due to pinholes","359)","IJ04"]},{"entry":[{},"electrostatic and piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"actuators."]},{"entry":["Multiple","Multiple smaller actuators are","360)","Increases the force","362)","Actuator forces may not add","363)","IJ12, IJ13,"]},{"entry":["actuators","used simultaneously to move the",{},"available from an actuator",{},"linearly, reducing efficiency",{},"IJ18, IJ20"]},{"entry":[{},"ink. Each actuator need provide","361)","Multiple actuators",{},{},"364)","IJ22, IJ28,"]},{"entry":[{},"only a portion of the force",{},"can be positioned to",{},{},{},"IJ42, IJ43"]},{"entry":[{},"required.",{},"control ink flow"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"accurately"]},{"entry":["Linear","A linear spring is used to","365)","Matches low travel","367)","Requires print head area for the","368)","IJ15"]},{"entry":["Spring","transform a motion with small",{},"actuator with higher",{},"spring"]},{"entry":[{},"travel and high force into a longer",{},"travel requirements"]},{"entry":[{},"travel, lower force motion.","366)","Non-contact method"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of motion transformation"]},{"entry":["Reverse","The actuator loads a spring. When","369)","Better coupling to","370)","Fabrication complexity","372)","IJ05, IJ11"]},{"entry":["spring","the actuator is turned off, the",{},"the ink","371)","High stress in the spring"]},{"entry":[{},"spring releases. This can reverse"]},{"entry":[{},"the force\/distance curve of the"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator to make it compatible"]},{"entry":[{},"with the force\/time requirements"]},{"entry":[{},"of the drop ejection."]},{"entry":["Coiled","A bend actuator is coiled to","373)","Increases travel","376)","Generally restricted to planar","377)","IJ17, IJ21,"]},{"entry":["actuator","provide greater travel in a reduced","374)","Reduces integrated",{},"implementations due to extreme",{},"IJ34, IJ35"]},{"entry":[{},"integrated circuit area.",{},"circuit area",{},"fabrication difficulty in other"]},{"entry":[{},{},"375)","Planar",{},"orientations."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"implementations are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"relatively easy to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"fabricate."]},{"entry":["Flexure","A bend actuator has a small","378)","Simple means of","379)","Care must be taken not to","382)","IJ10, IJ19,"]},{"entry":["bend","region near the fixture point,",{},"increasing travel of a",{},"exceed the elastic limit in the",{},"IJ33"]},{"entry":["actuator","which flexes much more readily",{},"bend actuator",{},"flexure area"]},{"entry":[{},"than the remainder of the actuator.",{},{},"380)","Stress distribution is very"]},{"entry":[{},"The actuator flexing is effectively",{},{},{},"uneven"]},{"entry":[{},"convened from an even coiling to",{},{},"381)","Difficult to accurately model"]},{"entry":[{},"an angular bend, resulting in",{},{},{},"with finite element analysis"]},{"entry":[{},"greater travel of the actuator tip."]},{"entry":["Gears","Gears can be used to increase","383)","Low force, low","385)","Moving parts are required","390)","IJ13"]},{"entry":[{},"travel at the expense of duration.",{},"travel actuators can be","386)","Several actuator cycles are"]},{"entry":[{},"Circular gears, rack and pinion,",{},"used",{},"required"]},{"entry":[{},"ratchets, and other gearing","384)","Can be fabricated","387)","More complex drive"]},{"entry":[{},"methods can be used.",{},"using standard surface",{},"electronics"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"MEMS processes","388)","Complex construction"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"389)","Friction, friction, and wear are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"possible"]},{"entry":["Catch","The actuator controls a small","391)","Very low actuator","393)","Complex construction","396)","IJ10"]},{"entry":[{},"catch. The catch either enables or",{},"energy","394)","Requires external force"]},{"entry":[{},"disables movement of an ink","392)","Very small actuator","395)","Unsuitable for pigmented inks"]},{"entry":[{},"pusher that is controlled in a bulk",{},"size"]},{"entry":[{},"manner."]},{"entry":["Buckle","A buckle plate can be used to","397)","Very fast movement","398)","Must stay within elastic limits","401)","S. Hirata et al,"]},{"entry":["plate","change a slow actuator into a fast",{},"achievable",{},"of the materials for long",{},"\u201cAn Ink-jet"]},{"entry":[{},"motion. It can also convert a high",{},{},{},"device life",{},"Head . . . \u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"force, low travel actuator into a",{},{},"399)","High stresses involved",{},"Proc. IEEE"]},{"entry":[{},"high travel, medium force motion.",{},{},"400)","Generally high power",{},"MEMS, February"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"requirement",{},"1996,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"pp 418-423."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"402)","IJ18, IJ27"]},{"entry":["Tapered","A tapered magnetic pole can","403)","Linearizes the","404)","Complex construction","405)","IJ14"]},{"entry":["magnetic","increase travel at the expense of",{},"magnetic force\/distance"]},{"entry":["pole","force.",{},"curve"]},{"entry":["Lever","A lever and fulcrum is used to","406)","Matches low travel","408)","High stress around the fulcrum","409)","IJ32, IJ36,"]},{"entry":[{},"transform a motion with small",{},"actuator with higher",{},{},{},"IJ37"]},{"entry":[{},"travel and high force into a",{},"travel requirements"]},{"entry":[{},"motion with longer travel and","407)","Fulcrum area has no"]},{"entry":[{},"lower force. The lever can also",{},"linear movement, and can"]},{"entry":[{},"reverse the direction of travel.",{},"be used for a fluid seal"]},{"entry":["Rotary","The actuator is connected to a","410)","High mechanical","412)","Complex construction","414)","IJ28"]},{"entry":["impeller","rotary impeller. A small angular",{},"advantage","413)","Unsuitable for pigmented inks"]},{"entry":[{},"deflection of the actuator results","411)","The ratio of force to"]},{"entry":[{},"in a rotation of the impeller vanes,",{},"travel of the actuator can"]},{"entry":[{},"which push the ink against",{},"be matched to the nozzle"]},{"entry":[{},"stationary vanes and out of the",{},"requirements by varying"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle.",{},"the number of impeller"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"vanes"]},{"entry":["Acoustic","A refractive or diffractive (e.g.","415)","No moving parts","416)","Large area required","418)","1993"]},{"entry":["lens","zone plate) acoustic lens is used to",{},{},"417)","Only relevant for acoustic ink",{},"Hadimioglu et al,"]},{"entry":[{},"concentrate sound waves,",{},{},{},"jets",{},"EUP 550,192"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"419)","1993 Elrod et"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"al, EUP 572,220"]},{"entry":["Sharp","A sharp point is used to","420)","Simple construction","421)","Difficult to fabricate using","423)","Tone-jet"]},{"entry":["conductive","concentrate an electrostatic field.",{},{},{},"standard VLSI processes for a"]},{"entry":["point",{},{},{},{},"surface ejecting ink-jet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"422)","Only relevant for electrostatic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0175"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"ACTUATOR MOTION"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Actuator",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["motion","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Volume","The volume of the actuator","424)","Simple construction","425)","High energy is typically","426)","Hewlett-"]},{"entry":["expansion","changes, pushing the ink in all",{},"in the case of thermal ink",{},"required to achieve volume",{},"Packard Thermal"]},{"entry":[{},"directions.",{},"jet",{},"expansion. This leads to thermal",{},"Inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"stress, cavitation, and kogation in","427)","Canon"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"thermal ink jet implementations",{},"Bubblejet"]},{"entry":["Linear,","The actuator moves in a","428)","Efficient coupling to","429)","High fabrication complexity","430)","IJ01, IJ02,"]},{"entry":["normal","direction normal to the print",{},"ink drops ejected normal",{},"may be required to achieve",{},"IJ04, IJ07"]},{"entry":["to","head surface. The nozzle is",{},"to the surface",{},"perpendicular motion","431)","IJ11, IJ14"]},{"entry":["integrated","typically in the line of"]},{"entry":["circuit","movement."]},{"entry":"surface"},{"entry":["Linear,","The actuator moves parallel","432)","Suitable for planar","433)","Fabrication complexity","436)","IJ12, IJ13,"]},{"entry":["parallel to","to the print head surface. Drop",{},"fabrication","434)","Friction",{},"IJ15, IJ33,"]},{"entry":["integrated","ejection may still be normal to the",{},{},"435)","Stiction","437)","IJ34, IJ35,"]},{"entry":["circuit","surface.",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ36"]},{"entry":"surface"},{"entry":["Membrane","An actuator with a high force","438)","The effective area of","439)","Fabrication complexity","442)","1982 Howkins"]},{"entry":["push","but small area is used to push",{},"the actuator becomes the","440)","Actuator size",{},"U.S. Pat."]},{"entry":[{},"a stiff membrane that is in",{},"membrane area","441)","Difficulty of integration in a",{},"No. 4,459,601"]},{"entry":[{},"contact with the ink.",{},{},{},"VLSI process"]},{"entry":["Rotary","The actuator causes the rotation","443)","Rotary levers may","445)","Device complexity","447)","IJ05, IJ08,"]},{"entry":[{},"of some element, such a grill",{},"be used to increase travel","446)","May have friction at a pivot",{},"IJ13, IJ28"]},{"entry":[{},"or impeller","444)","Small integrated",{},"point"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"circuit area requirements"]},{"entry":["Bend","The actuator bends when","448)","A very small change","449)","Requires the actuator to be","450)","1970 Kyser et"]},{"entry":[{},"energized. This may be due to",{},"in dimensions can be",{},"made from at least two distinct",{},"al U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"differential thermal expansion,",{},"converted to a large",{},"layers, or to have a thermal",{},"3,946,398"]},{"entry":[{},"piezoelectric expansion,",{},"motion.",{},"difference across the actuator","451)","1973 Stemme"]},{"entry":[{},"magnetostriction, or other form",{},{},{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"of relative dimensional change.",{},{},{},{},{},"3,747,120"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"452)","IJ03, IJ09,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ10, IJ19"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"453)","IJ23, IJ24,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ25, IJ29"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"454)","IJ30, IJ31,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ33, IJ34"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"455)","IJ35"]},{"entry":["Swivel","The actuator swivels around a","456)","Allows operation","458)","Inefficient coupling to the ink","459)","IJ06"]},{"entry":[{},"central pivot. This motion is",{},"where the net linear force",{},"motion"]},{"entry":[{},"suitable where there are opposite",{},"on the paddle is zero"]},{"entry":[{},"forces applied to opposite sides","457)","Small integrated"]},{"entry":[{},"of the paddle, e.g. Lorenz force.",{},"circuit area requirements"]},{"entry":["Straighten","The actuator is normally bent,","460)","Can be used with","461)","Requires careful balance of","462)","IJ26, IJ32"]},{"entry":[{},"and straightens when",{},"shape memory alloys",{},"stresses to ensure that the quiescent"]},{"entry":[{},"energized.",{},"where the austenic phase",{},"bend is accurate"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is planar"]},{"entry":["Double","The actuator bends in one","463)","One actuator can be","466)","Difficult to make the drops","468)","IJ36, IJ37,"]},{"entry":["bend","direction when one element is",{},"used to power two",{},"ejected by both bend directions",{},"IJ38"]},{"entry":[{},"energized, and bends the other",{},"nozzles.",{},"identical."]},{"entry":[{},"way when another element is","464)","Reduced integrated","467)","A small efficiency loss"]},{"entry":[{},"energized.",{},"circuit size.",{},"compared to equivalent single bend"]},{"entry":[{},{},"465)","Not sensitive to",{},"actuators."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ambient temperature"]},{"entry":["Shear","Energizing the actuator causes a","469)","Can increase the","470)","Not readily applicable to other","471)","1985 Fishbeck"]},{"entry":[{},"shear motion in the actuator",{},"effective travel of",{},"actuator mechanisms",{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"material.",{},"piezoelectric actuators",{},{},{},"4,584,590"]},{"entry":["Radial","The actuator squeezes an ink","472)","Relatively easy to","473)","High force required","476)","1970 Zoltan"]},{"entry":["constric-","reservoir, forcing ink from a",{},"fabricate single nozzles","474)","Inefficient",{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":["tion","constricted nozzle.",{},"from glass tubing as","475)","Difficult to integrate with",{},"3,683,212"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"macroscopic structures",{},"VLSI processes"]},{"entry":["Coil\/","A coiled actuator uncoils or coils","477)","Easy to fabricate as a","479)","Difficult to fabricate for non-","481)","IJ17, IJ21,"]},{"entry":["uncoil","more tightly. The motion of the",{},"planar VLSI process",{},"planar devices",{},"IJ34, IJ35"]},{"entry":[{},"free end of the actuator ejects","478)","Small area required,","480)","Poor out-of-plane stiffness"]},{"entry":[{},"the ink.",{},"therefore low cost"]},{"entry":["Bow","The actuator bows (or buckles)","482)","Can increase the","484)","Maximum travel is constrained","486)","IJ16, IJ18,"]},{"entry":[{},"in the middle when energized.",{},"speed of travel","485)","High force required",{},"IJ27"]},{"entry":[{},{},"483)","Mechanically rigid"]},{"entry":["Push-Pull","Two actuators control a shutter.","487)","The structure is","488)","Not readily suitable for inkjets","489)","IJ18"]},{"entry":[{},"One actuator pulls the shutter,",{},"pinned at both ends, so",{},"which directly push the ink"]},{"entry":[{},"and the other pushes it.",{},"has a high out-of-plane"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"rigidity"]},{"entry":["Curl","A set of actuators curl inwards","490)","Good fluid flow to","491)","Design complexity","492)","IJ20, IJ42"]},{"entry":["inwards","to reduce the volume of ink",{},"the region behind the"]},{"entry":[{},"that they enclose.",{},"actuator increases"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"efficiency"]},{"entry":["Curl","A set of actuators curl outwards,","493)","Relatively simple","494)","Relatively large integrated","495)","IJ43"]},{"entry":["outwards","pressurizing ink in a chamber",{},"construction",{},"circuit area"]},{"entry":[{},"surrounding the actuators, and"]},{"entry":[{},"expelling ink from a nozzle"]},{"entry":[{},"in the chamber."]},{"entry":["Iris","Multiple vanes enclose a volume","496)","High efficiency","498)","High fabrication complexity","500)","IJ22"]},{"entry":[{},"of ink. These simultaneously","497)","Small integrated","499)","Not suitable for pigmented"]},{"entry":[{},"rotate, reducing the volume",{},"circuit area",{},"inks"]},{"entry":[{},"between the vanes."]},{"entry":["Acoustic","The actuator vibrates at a high","501)","The actuator can be","502)","Large area required for","506)","1993"]},{"entry":["vibration","frequency.",{},"physically distant from",{},"efficient operation at useful",{},"Hadimioglu et al,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the ink",{},"frequencies",{},"EUP 550,192"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"503)","Acoustic coupling and","507)","1993 Elrod et"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"crosstalk",{},"al, EUP 572,220"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"504)","Complex drive circuitry"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"505)","Poor control of drop volume"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"and position"]},{"entry":["None","In various ink jet designs the","508)","No moving parts","509)","Various other tradeoffs are","510)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator does not move.",{},{},{},"required to eliminate moving parts",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"511)","Tone-jet"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0171","num":"0176"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"NOZZLE REFILL METHOD"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Nozzle",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"refill"},{"entry":["method","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Surface","After the actuator is energized, it","512)","Fabrication","514)","Low speed","517)","Thermal inkjet"]},{"entry":["tension","typically returns rapidly to its",{},"simplicity","515)","Surface tension force relatively","518)","Piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"normal position. This rapid return","513)","Operational",{},"small compared to actuator force",{},"inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},"sucks in air through the nozzle",{},"simplicity","516)","Long refill time usually","519)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":[{},"opening. The ink surface tension",{},{},{},"dominates the total repetition rate",{},"IJ10-IJ14"]},{"entry":[{},"at the nozzle then exerts a small",{},{},{},{},"520)","IJ16, IJ20,"]},{"entry":[{},"force restoring the meniscus to a",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ22-IJ45"]},{"entry":[{},"minimum area."]},{"entry":["Shuttered","Ink to the nozzle chamber is","521)","High speed","523)","Requires common ink pressure","525)","IJ08, IJ13,"]},{"entry":["oscillating","provided at a pressure that","522)","Low actuator",{},"oscillator",{},"IJ15, IJ17"]},{"entry":["ink","oscillates at twice the drop",{},"energy, as the actuator","524)","May not be suitable for","526)","IJ18, IJ19,"]},{"entry":["pressure","ejection frequency. When a drop",{},"need only open or close",{},"pigmented inks",{},"IJ21"]},{"entry":[{},"is to be ejected, the shutter is",{},"the shutter, instead of"]},{"entry":[{},"opened for 3 half cycles: drop",{},"ejecting the ink drop"]},{"entry":[{},"ejection, actuator return, and"]},{"entry":[{},"refill."]},{"entry":["Refill","After the main actuator has","527)","High speed, as the","528)","Requires two independent","529)","IJ09"]},{"entry":["actuator","ejected a drop a second (refill)",{},"nozzle is actively refilled",{},"actuators per nozzle"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator is energized. The refill"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator pushes ink into the nozzle"]},{"entry":[{},"chamber. The refill actuator"]},{"entry":[{},"returns slowly, to prevent its"]},{"entry":[{},"return from emptying the chamber"]},{"entry":[{},"again."]},{"entry":["Positive","The ink is held a slight positive","530)","High refill rate,","531)","Surface spill must be prevented","533)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["ink","pressure. After the ink drop is",{},"therefore a high drop","532)","Highly hydrophobic print head",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["pressure","ejected, the nozzle chamber fills",{},"repetition rate is possible",{},"surfaces are required",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"quickly as surface tension and ink",{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"pressure both operate to refill the",{},{},{},{},"534)","Alternative"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle.",{},{},{},{},{},"for:"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"535)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ10-IJ14"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"536)","IJ16, IJ20,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ22-IJ45"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0177"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"METHOD OF RESTRICTING BACK-FLOW THROUGH INLET"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Inlet",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"back-flow"},{"entry":"restriction"},{"entry":["method","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Long inlet","The ink inlet channel to the nozzle","537)","Design simplicity","540)","Restricts refill rate","543)","Thermal inkjet"]},{"entry":["channel","chamber is made long and","538)","Operational","541)","May result in a relatively large","544)","Piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"relatively narrow, relying on",{},"simplicity",{},"integrated circuit area",{},"inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},"viscous drag to reduce inlet back-","539)","Reduces crosstalk","542)","Only partially effective","545)","IJ42, IJ43"]},{"entry":[{},"flow."]},{"entry":["Positive","The ink is under a positive","546)","Drop selection and","548)","Requires a method (such as a","549)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["ink","pressure, so that in the quiescent",{},"separation forces can be",{},"nozzle rim or effective",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["pressure","state some of the ink drop already",{},"reduced",{},"hydrophobizing, or both) to",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"protrudes from the nozzle.","547)","Fast refill time",{},"prevent flooding of the ejection",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"This reduces the pressure in the",{},{},{},"surface of the print head.","550)","Possible"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle chamber which is required",{},{},{},{},{},"operation of the"]},{"entry":[{},"to eject a certain volume of ink.",{},{},{},{},{},"following:"]},{"entry":[{},"The reduction in chamber",{},{},{},{},"551)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":[{},"pressure results in a reduction in",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ09-IJ12"]},{"entry":[{},"ink pushed out through the inlet.",{},{},{},{},"552)","IJ14, IJ16,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ20, IJ22,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"553)","IJ23-IJ34,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ36-IJ41"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"554)","IJ44"]},{"entry":["Baffle","One or more baffles are placed in","555)","The refill rate is not","557)","Design complexity","559)","HP Thermal"]},{"entry":[{},"the inlet ink flow. When the",{},"as restricted as the long","558)","May increase fabrication",{},"Ink Jet"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator is energized, the rapid ink",{},"inlet method.",{},"complexity (e.g. Tektronix hot","560)","Tektronix"]},{"entry":[{},"movement creates eddies which","556)","Reduces crosstalk",{},"melt Piezoelectric print heads).",{},"piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"restrict the flow through the inlet.",{},{},{},{},{},"ink jet"]},{"entry":[{},"The slower refill process is"]},{"entry":[{},"unrestricted, and does not result in"]},{"entry":[{},"eddies."]},{"entry":["Flexible","In this method recently disclosed","561)","Significantly reduces","562)","Not applicable to most inkjet","565)","Canon"]},{"entry":["flap","by Canon, the expanding actuator",{},"back-flow for edge-",{},"configurations"]},{"entry":["restricts","(bubble) pushes on a flexible flap",{},"shooter thermal ink jet","563)","Increased fabrication"]},{"entry":["inlet","that restricts the inlet.",{},"devices",{},"complexity"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"564)","Inelastic deformation of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"polymer flap results in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"creep over extended use"]},{"entry":["Inlet","A filter is located between the ink","566)","Additional","568)","Restricts refill rate","570)","IJ04, IJ12,"]},{"entry":["filter","inlet and the nozzle chamber. The",{},"advantage of ink filtration","569)","May result in complex",{},"IJ24, IJ27"]},{"entry":[{},"filter has a multitude of small","567)","Ink filter may be",{},"construction","571)","IJ29, IJ30"]},{"entry":[{},"holes or slots, restricting ink flow.",{},"fabricated with no"]},{"entry":[{},"The filter also removes particles",{},"additional process steps"]},{"entry":[{},"which may block the nozzle."]},{"entry":["Small","The ink inlet channel to the nozzle","572)","Design simplicity","573)","Restricts refill rate","576)","IJ02, IJ37,"]},{"entry":["inlet","chamber has a substantially",{},{},"574)","May result in a relatively large",{},"IJ44"]},{"entry":["compared","smaller cross section than that of",{},{},{},"integrated circuit area"]},{"entry":["to nozzle","the nozzle, resulting in easier ink",{},{},"575)","Only partially effective"]},{"entry":[{},"egress out of the nozzle than out"]},{"entry":[{},"of the inlet."]},{"entry":["Inlet","A secondary actuator controls the","577)","Increases speed of","578)","Requires separate refill","579)","IJ09"]},{"entry":["shutter","position of a shutter, closing off",{},"the ink-jet print head",{},"actuator and drive circuit"]},{"entry":[{},"the ink inlet when the main",{},"operation"]},{"entry":[{},"actuator is energized."]},{"entry":["The inlet","The method avoids the problem of","580)","Back-flow problem","581)","Requires careful design to","582)","IJ01, IJ03,"]},{"entry":["is located","inlet back-flow by arranging the",{},"is eliminated",{},"minimize the negative pressure",{},"1J05, IJ06"]},{"entry":["behind","ink-pushing surface of the",{},{},{},"behind the paddle","583)","IJ07, IJ10,"]},{"entry":["the ink-","actuator between the inlet and the",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ11, IJ14"]},{"entry":["pushing","nozzle.",{},{},{},{},"584)","IJ16, IJ22,"]},{"entry":["surface",{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ23, IJ25"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"585)","IJ28, IJ31,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ32, IJ33"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"586)","IJ34, IJ35,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ36, IJ39"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"587)","IJ40, IJ41"]},{"entry":["Part","The actuator and a wall of the ink","588)","Significant","590)","Small increase in fabrication","591)","IJ07, IJ20,"]},{"entry":["of the","chamber are arranged so that the",{},"reductions in back-flow",{},"complexity",{},"IJ26, IJ38"]},{"entry":["actuator","motion of the actuator closes off",{},"can be achieved"]},{"entry":["moves to","the inlet.","589)","Compact designs"]},{"entry":["shut off",{},{},"possible"]},{"entry":"the inlet"},{"entry":["Nozzle","In some configurations of ink jet,","592)","Ink back-flow","593)","None related to ink back-flow","594)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["actuator","there is no expansion or",{},"problem is eliminated",{},"on actuation",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["does not","movement of an actuator which",{},{},{},{},{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":["result in","may cause ink back-flow through",{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":["ink back-","the inlet.",{},{},{},{},"595)","Valve-jet"]},{"entry":["flow",{},{},{},{},{},"596)","Tone-jet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"597)","IJ08, IJ13,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ15, IJ17"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"598)","IJ18, IJ19,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ21"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0173","num":"0178"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"NOZZLE CLEARING METHOD"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Nozzle",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"Clearing"},{"entry":["method","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Normal","All of the nozzles are fired","599)","No added","600)","May not be sufficient to","601)","Most ink jet"]},{"entry":["nozzle","periodically, before the ink has a",{},"complexity on the print",{},"displace dried ink",{},"systems"]},{"entry":["firing","chance to dry. When not in use",{},"head",{},{},"602)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":[{},"the nozzles are sealed (capped)",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ09-IJ12"]},{"entry":[{},"against air.",{},{},{},{},"603)","IJ14, IJ16,"]},{"entry":[{},"The nozzle firing is usually",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ20, IJ22"]},{"entry":[{},"performed during a special",{},{},{},{},"604)","IJ23-IJ34,"]},{"entry":[{},"clearing cycle, after first moving",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ36-IJ45"]},{"entry":[{},"the print head to a cleaning"]},{"entry":[{},"station."]},{"entry":["Extra","In systems which heat the ink, but","605)","Can be highly","606)","Requires higher drive voltage","608)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["power to","do not boil it under normal",{},"effective if the heater is",{},"for clearing",{},"EP 0771 658"]},{"entry":["ink heater","situations, nozzle clearing can be",{},"adjacent to the nozzle","607)","May require larger drive",{},"A2 and related"]},{"entry":[{},"achieved by over-powering the",{},{},{},"transistors",{},"patent"]},{"entry":[{},"heater and boiling ink at the",{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle."]},{"entry":["Rapid","The actuator is fired in rapid","609)","Does not require","611)","Effectiveness depends","612)","May be used"]},{"entry":["succession","succession. In some",{},"extra drive circuits on the",{},"substantially upon the configuration",{},"with:"]},{"entry":["of actuator","configurations, this may cause",{},"print head",{},"of the inkjet nozzle","613)","IJ01-IJ07,"]},{"entry":["pulses","heat build-up at the nozzle which","610)","Can be readily",{},{},{},"IJ09-IJ11"]},{"entry":[{},"boils the ink, clearing the nozzle.",{},"controlled and initiated",{},{},"614)","IJ14, IJ16,"]},{"entry":[{},"In other situations, it may cause",{},"by digital logic",{},{},{},"IJ20, IJ22"]},{"entry":[{},"sufficient vibrations to dislodge",{},{},{},{},"615)","IJ23-IJ25,"]},{"entry":[{},"clogged nozzles.",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ27-IJ34"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"616)","IJ36-IJ45"]},{"entry":["Extra","Where an actuator is not normally","617)","A simple solution","618)","Not suitable where there is a","619)","May be used"]},{"entry":["power","driven to the limit of its motion,",{},"where applicable",{},"hard limit to actuator movement",{},"with:"]},{"entry":["to ink","nozzle clearing may be assisted by",{},{},{},{},"620)","IJ03, IJ09,"]},{"entry":["pushing","providing an enhanced drive",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ16, IJ20"]},{"entry":["actuator","signal to the actuator.",{},{},{},{},"621)","IJ23, IJ24,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ25, IJ27"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"622)","IJ29, IJ30,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ31, IJ32"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"623)","IJ39, IJ40,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ41, IJ42"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"624)","IJ43, IJ44,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ45"]},{"entry":["Acoustic","An ultrasonic wave is applied to","625)","A high nozzle","627)","High implementation cost if","628)","IJ08, IJ13,"]},{"entry":["resonance","the ink chamber. This wave is of",{},"clearing capability can be",{},"system does not already include an",{},"IJ15, IJ17"]},{"entry":[{},"an appropriate amplitude and",{},"achieved",{},"acoustic actuator","629)","IJ18, IJ19,"]},{"entry":[{},"frequency to cause sufficient force","626)","May be implemented",{},{},{},"IJ21"]},{"entry":[{},"at the nozzle to clear blockages.",{},"at very low cost in"]},{"entry":[{},"This is easiest to achieve if the",{},"systems which already"]},{"entry":[{},"ultrasonic wave is at a resonant",{},"include acoustic actuators"]},{"entry":[{},"frequency of the ink cavity."]},{"entry":["Nozzle","A microfabricated plate is pushed","630)","Can clear severely","631)","Accurate mechanical","635)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["clearing","against the nozzles. The plate has",{},"clogged nozzles",{},"alignment is required",{},"EP 0771 658"]},{"entry":["plate","a post for every nozzle. The array",{},{},"632)","Moving parts are required",{},"A2 and related"]},{"entry":[{},"of posts",{},{},"633)","There is risk of damage to the",{},"patent"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"nozzles",{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"634)","Accurate fabrication is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"required"]},{"entry":["Ink","The pressure of the ink is","636)","May be effective","637)","Requires pressure pump or","640)","May be used"]},{"entry":["pressure","temporarily increased so that ink",{},"where other methods",{},"other pressure actuator",{},"with all IJ"]},{"entry":["pulse","streams from all of the nozzles.",{},"cannot be used","638)","Expensive",{},"series ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"This may be used in conjunction",{},{},"639)","Wasteful of ink"]},{"entry":[{},"with actuator energizing."]},{"entry":["Print head","A flexible \u2018blade\u2019 is wiped across","641)","Effective for planar","643)","Difficult to use if print head","646)","Many ink jet"]},{"entry":["wiper","the print head surface. The blade",{},"print head surfaces",{},"surface is non-planar or very fragile",{},"systems"]},{"entry":[{},"is usually fabricated from a","642)","Low cost","644)","Requires mechanical parts"]},{"entry":[{},"flexible polymer, e.g. rubber or",{},{},"645)","Blade can wear out in high"]},{"entry":[{},"synthetic elastomer.",{},{},{},"volume print systems"]},{"entry":["Separate","A separate heater is provided at","647)","Can be effective","649)","Fabrication complexity","650)","Can be used"]},{"entry":["ink","the nozzle although the normal",{},"where other nozzle",{},{},{},"with many IJ"]},{"entry":["boiling","drop e-ection mechanism does",{},"clearing methods cannot",{},{},{},"series ink"]},{"entry":["heater","not require it. The heaters do not",{},"be used",{},{},{},"jets"]},{"entry":[{},"require individual drive circuits,","648)","Can be implemented"]},{"entry":[{},"as many nozzles can be cleared",{},"at no additional cost in"]},{"entry":[{},"simultaneously, and no imaging is",{},"some inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},"required.",{},"configurations"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0179"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"NOZZLE PLATE CONSTRUCTION"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Nozzle plate",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["construction","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Electroformed","A nozzle plate is separately","651)","Fabrication","652)","High temperatures and","655)","Hewlett"]},{"entry":["nickel","fabricated from",{},"simplicity",{},"pressures are required to bond",{},"Packard Thermal"]},{"entry":[{},"electroformed nickel,",{},{},{},"nozzle plate",{},"Inkjet"]},{"entry":[{},"and bonded to the print",{},{},"653)","Minimum thickness constraints"]},{"entry":[{},"head integrated circuit.",{},{},"654)","Differential thermal expansion"]},{"entry":["Laser ablated","Individual nozzle holes are","656)","No masks required","660)","Each hole must be individually","664)","Canon"]},{"entry":["or drilled","ablated by an intense UV","657)","Can be quite fast",{},"formed",{},"Bubblejet"]},{"entry":["polymer","laser in a nozzle plate,","658)","Some control over","661)","Special equipment required","665)","1988 Sercel et"]},{"entry":[{},"which is typically a",{},"nozzle profile is possible","662)","Slow where there are many",{},"al., SPIE, Vol. 998"]},{"entry":[{},"polymer such as polyimide","659)","Equipment required",{},"thousands of nozzles per print head",{},"Excimer Beam"]},{"entry":[{},"or polysulphone",{},"is relatively low cost","663)","May produce thin burrs at exit",{},"Applications, pp."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"holes",{},"76-83"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"666)","1993"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Watanabe et al.,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"5,208,604"]},{"entry":["Silicon micro-","A separate nozzle plate is","667)","High accuracy is","668)","Two part construction","672)","K. Bean, IEEE"]},{"entry":["machined","micromachined from single",{},"attainable","669)","High cost",{},"Transactions on"]},{"entry":[{},"crystal silicon, and bonded",{},{},"670)","Requires precision alignment",{},"Electron Devices,"]},{"entry":[{},"to the print head wafer.",{},{},"671)","Nozzles may be clogged by",{},"Vol. ED-25, No. 10,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"adhesive",{},"1978, pp 1185-1195"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"673)","Xerox 1990"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Hawkins et al.,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"4,899,181"]},{"entry":["Glass","Fine glass capillaries","674)","No expensive","676)","Very small nozzle sizes are","678)","1970 Zoltan"]},{"entry":["capillaries","are drawn from glass",{},"equipment required",{},"difficult to form",{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"tubing. This method has","675)","Simple to make","677)","Not suited for mass production",{},"3,683,212"]},{"entry":[{},"been used for making",{},"single nozzles"]},{"entry":[{},"individual nozzles, but is"]},{"entry":[{},"difficult to use for bulk"]},{"entry":[{},"manufacturing of print"]},{"entry":[{},"heads with thousands"]},{"entry":[{},"of nozzles."]},{"entry":["Monolithic,","The nozzle plate is","679)","High accuracy (<1 \u03bcm)","683)","Requires sacrificial layer under","685)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["surface micro-","deposited as a layer using","680)","Monolithic",{},"the nozzle plate to form the nozzle",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["machined","standard VLSI","681)","Low cost",{},"chamber",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":["using VLSI","deposition techniques.","682)","Existing processes","684)","Surface may be fragile to the",{},"applications"]},{"entry":["lithographic","Nozzles are etched",{},"can be used",{},"touch","686)","IJ01, IJ02,"]},{"entry":["processes","in the nozzle plate",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ04, IJ11"]},{"entry":[{},"using VLSI lithography",{},{},{},{},"687)","IJ12, IJ17,"]},{"entry":[{},"and etching.",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ18, IJ20"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"688)","IJ22, IJ24,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ27, IJ28"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"689)","IJ29, IJ30,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ31, IJ32"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"690)","IJ33, IJ34,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ36, IJ37"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"691)","IJ38, IJ39,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ40, IJ41"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"692)","IJ42, IJ43,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ44"]},{"entry":["Monolithic,","The nozzle plate is a buried","693)","High accuracy (<1 \u03bcm)","697)","Requires long etch times","699)","IJ03, IJ05,"]},{"entry":["etched through","etch stop in the wafer.","694)","Monolithic","698)","Requires a support wafer",{},"IJ06, IJ07"]},{"entry":["substrate","Nozzle chambers are etched","695)","Low cost",{},{},"700)","IJ08, IJ09,"]},{"entry":[{},"in the front of the wafer,","696)","No differential",{},{},{},"IJ10, IJ13"]},{"entry":[{},"and the wafer is thinned",{},"expansion",{},{},"701)","IJ14, IJ15,"]},{"entry":[{},"from the back side.",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ16, IJ19"]},{"entry":[{},"Nozzles are then etched",{},{},{},{},"702)","IJ21, IJ23,"]},{"entry":[{},"in the etch stop layer.",{},{},{},{},{},"IJ25, IJ26"]},{"entry":["No nozzle plate","Various methods have been","703)","No nozzles to","704)","Difficult to control drop","706)","Ricoh 1995"]},{"entry":[{},"tried to eliminate the",{},"become clogged",{},"position accurately",{},"Sekiya et al"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzles entirely, to prevent",{},{},"705)","Crosstalk problems",{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle clogging. These",{},{},{},{},{},"5,412,413"]},{"entry":[{},"include thermal bubble",{},{},{},{},"707)","1993"]},{"entry":[{},"mechanisms and acoustic",{},{},{},{},{},"Hadimioglu et al"]},{"entry":[{},"lens mechanisms",{},{},{},{},{},"EUP 550,192"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"708)","1993 Elrod et"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"al EUP 572,220"]},{"entry":["Trough","Each drop ejector has a","709)","Reduced","711)","Drop firing direction is","712)","IJ35"]},{"entry":[{},"trough through which a",{},"manufacturing",{},"sensitive to wicking."]},{"entry":[{},"paddle moves. There is no",{},"complexity"]},{"entry":[{},"nozzle plate.","710)","Monolithic"]},{"entry":["Nozzle slit","The elimination of nozzle","713)","No nozzles to","714)","Difficult to control drop","716)","1989 Saito et"]},{"entry":["instead of","holes and replacement",{},"become clogged",{},"position accurately",{},"al U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":["individual","by a slit encompassing",{},{},"715)","Crosstalk problems",{},"4,799,068"]},{"entry":["nozzles","many actuator positions"]},{"entry":[{},"reduces nozzle clogging,"]},{"entry":[{},"but increases crosstalk"]},{"entry":[{},"due to ink surface waves"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0175","num":"0180"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DROP EJECTION DIRECTION"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Ejection",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["direction","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Edge","Ink flow is along the surface of","717)","Simple construction","722)","Nozzles limited to edge","725)","Canon"]},{"entry":["(\u2018edge","the integrated circuit, and ink","718)","No silicon etching","723)","High resolution is difficult",{},"Bubblejet 1979"]},{"entry":["shooter\u2019)","drops are ejected from the",{},"required","724)","Fast color printing requires one",{},"Endo et al GB"]},{"entry":[{},"integrated circuit edge.","719)","Good heat sinking",{},"print head per color",{},"patent 2,007,162"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"via substrate",{},{},"726)","Xerox heater-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"720)","Mechanically strong",{},{},{},"in-pit 1990"]},{"entry":[{},{},"721)","Ease of integrated",{},{},{},"Hawkins et al"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"circuit handing",{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"4,899,181"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"727)","Tone-jet"]},{"entry":["Surface","Ink flow is along the surface of","728)","No bulk silicon","731)","Maximum ink flow is severely","732)","Hewlett-"]},{"entry":["(\u2018roof","the integrated circuit, and ink",{},"etching required",{},"restricted",{},"Packard TIJ 1982"]},{"entry":["shooter\u2019)","drops are ejected from the","729)","Silicon can make an",{},{},{},"Vaught et al"]},{"entry":[{},"integrated circuit surface, normal",{},"effective heat sink",{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"to the plane of the integrated","730)","Mechanical strength",{},{},{},"4,490,728"]},{"entry":[{},"circuit.",{},{},{},{},"733)","IJ02, IJ11,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ12, IJ20"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"734)","IJ22"]},{"entry":["Through","Ink flow is through the integrated","735)","High ink flow","738)","Requires bulk silicon etching","739)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":["integrated","circuit, and ink drops are ejected","736)","Suitable for",{},{},{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":["circuit,","from the front surface of the",{},"pagewidth print",{},{},{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":["forward","integrated circuit.","737)","High nozzle packing",{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":["(\u2018up",{},{},"density therefore low",{},{},"740)","IJ04, IJ17,"]},{"entry":["shooter\u2019)",{},{},"manufacturing cost",{},{},{},"IJ18, IJ24"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"741)","IJ27-IJ45"]},{"entry":["Through","Ink flow is through the integrated","742)","High ink flow","745)","Requires wafer thinning","747)","IJ01, IJ03,"]},{"entry":["integrated","circuit, and ink drops are ejected","743)","Suitable for","746)","Requires special handling",{},"IJ05, IJ06"]},{"entry":["circuit,","from the rear surface of the",{},"pagewidth print",{},"during manufacture","748)","IJ07, IJ08,"]},{"entry":["reverse","integrated circuit.","744)","High nozzle packing",{},{},{},"IJ09, IJ10"]},{"entry":["(\u2018down",{},{},"density therefore low",{},{},"749)","IJ13, IJ14,"]},{"entry":["shooter\u2019)",{},{},"manufacturing cost",{},{},{},"IJ15, IJ16"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"750)","IJ19, IJ21,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"IJ23, IJ25"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"751)","IJ26"]},{"entry":["Through","Ink flow is through the actuator,","752)","Suitable for","753)","Pagewidth print heads require","756)","Epson Stylus"]},{"entry":["actuator","which is not fabricated as part of",{},"piezoelectric print heads",{},"several thousand connections to","757)","Tektronix hot"]},{"entry":[{},"the same substrate as the drive",{},{},{},"drive circuits",{},"melt piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"transistors.",{},{},"754)","Cannot be manufactured in",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"standard CMOS fabs"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"755)","Complex assembly required"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0176","num":"0181"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"INK TYPE"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Ink type","Description","Advantages","Disadvantages","Examples"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Aqueous, dye","Water based ink which typically","758)","Environmentally","760)","Slow drying","765)","Most existing"]},{"entry":[{},"contains: water, dye, surfactant,",{},"friendly","761)","Corrosive",{},"inkjets"]},{"entry":[{},"humectant, and biocide.","759)","No odor","762)","Bleeds on paper","766)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":[{},"Modern ink dyes have high water-",{},{},"763)","May strikethrough",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"fastness, light fastness",{},{},"764)","Cockles paper","767)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":["Aqueous,","Water based ink which typically","768)","Environmentally","773)","Slow drying","778)","IJ02, IJ04,"]},{"entry":["pigment","contains: water, pigment,",{},"friendly","774)","Corrosive",{},"IJ21, IJ26"]},{"entry":[{},"surfactant, humectant, and","769)","No odor","775)","Pigment may clog nozzles","779)","IJ27, IJ30"]},{"entry":[{},"biocide.","770)","Reduced bleed","776)","Pigment may clog actuator","780)","Silverbrook,"]},{"entry":[{},"Pigments have an advantage in","771)","Reduced wicking",{},"mechanisms",{},"EP 0771 658 A2"]},{"entry":[{},"reduced bleed, wicking and","772)","Reduced","777)","Cockles paper",{},"and related patent"]},{"entry":[{},"strikethrough.",{},"strikethrough",{},{},{},"applications"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"781)","Piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"ink-jets"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"782)","Thermal ink"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"jets (with"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"significant"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"restrictions)"]},{"entry":["Methyl Ethyl","MEK is a highly volatile solvent","783)","Very fast drying","785)","Odorous","787)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":["Ketone (MEK)","used for industrial printing on","784)","Prints on various","786)","Flammable",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"difficult surfaces such as",{},"substrates such as metals"]},{"entry":[{},"aluminum cans.",{},"and plastics"]},{"entry":["Alcohol","Alcohol based inks can be used","788)","Fast drying","792)","Slight odor","794)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":["(ethanol, 2-","where the printer must operate at","789)","Operates at sub-","793)","Flammable",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":["butanol, and","temperatures below the freezing",{},"freezing temperatures"]},{"entry":["others)","point of water. An example of this","790)","Reduced paper"]},{"entry":[{},"is in-camera consumer",{},"cockle"]},{"entry":[{},"photographic printing.","791)","Low cost"]},{"entry":["Phase change","The ink is solid at room","795)","No drying time-ink","801)","High viscosity","807)","Tektronix hot"]},{"entry":["(hot melt)","temperature, and is melted in the",{},"instantly freezes on the","802)","Printed ink typically has a",{},"melt piezoelectric"]},{"entry":[{},"print head before jetting. Hot melt",{},"print medium",{},"\u2018waxy\u2019 feel",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"inks are usually wax based, with a","796)","Almost any print","803)","Printed pages may \u2018block\u2019","808)","1989 Nowak"]},{"entry":[{},"melting point around 80\u00b0 C. After",{},"medium can be used","804)","Ink temperature may be above",{},"U.S. Pat. No."]},{"entry":[{},"jetting the ink freezes almost","797)","No paper cockle",{},"the curie point of permanent",{},"4,820,346"]},{"entry":[{},"instantly upon contacting the print",{},"occurs",{},"magnets","809)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":[{},"medium or a transfer roller.","798)","No wicking occurs","805)","Ink heaters consume power",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},{},"799)","No bleed occurs","806)","Long warm-up time"]},{"entry":[{},{},"800)","No strikethrough"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"occurs"]},{"entry":["Oil","Oil based inks are extensively","810)","High solubility","813)","High viscosity: this is a","815)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":[{},"used in offset printing. They have",{},"medium for some dyes",{},"significant limitation for use",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"advantages in improved","811)","Does not cockle",{},"in inkjets, which usually"]},{"entry":[{},"characteristics on paper",{},"paper",{},"require a low viscosity. Some"]},{"entry":[{},"(especially no wicking or cockle).","812)","Does not wick",{},"short chain and multi-"]},{"entry":[{},"Oil soluble dies and pigments are",{},"through paper",{},"branched oils have"]},{"entry":[{},"required.",{},{},{},"a sufficiently low"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"viscosity."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"814)","Slow drying"]},{"entry":["Microemulsion","A microemulsion is a stable, self","816)","Stops ink bleed","820)","Viscosity higher than water","823)","All IJ series"]},{"entry":[{},"forming emulsion of oil, water,","817)","High dye solubility","821)","Cost is slightly higher than",{},"ink jets"]},{"entry":[{},"and surfactant. The characteristic","818)","Water, oil, and",{},"water based ink"]},{"entry":[{},"drop size is less than 100 nm, and",{},"amphiphilic soluble dies","822)","High surfactant concentration"]},{"entry":[{},"is determined by the preferred",{},"can be used",{},"required (around 5%)"]},{"entry":[{},"curvature of the surfactant.","819)","Can stabilize"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pigment suspensions"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},"A large number of new forms of ink jet printers have been developed to facilitate alternative ink jet technologies for the image processing and data distribution system. Various combinations of ink jet devices can be included in printer devices incorporated as part of the present invention. Australian Provisional Patent Applications relating to these ink jets which are specifically incorporated by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0183"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. Pat. No\/U.S. patent"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"application Ser. No. and"]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PO8066","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,227,652"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ01)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8072","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,213,588"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ02)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8040","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,213,589"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ03)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8071","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,231,163"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ04)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8047","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,795"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ05)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8035","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,394,581"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ06)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8044","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,244,691"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ07)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8063","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,257,704"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ08)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8057","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,416,168"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ09)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8056","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,220,694"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ10)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8069","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,257,705"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ11)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8049","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,794"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ12)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8036","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,234,610"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ13)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8048","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,793"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ14)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8070","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,264,306"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ15)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8067","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,241,342"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ16)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8001","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,792"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ17)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8038","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,264,307"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ18)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8033","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,254,220"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ19)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8002","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,234,611"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ20)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8068","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,302,528)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ21)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8062","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,283,582"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ22)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8034","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,239,821"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ23)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8039","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,338,547"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ24)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8041","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,796"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ25)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8004","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","09\/113,122"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ26)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8037","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,390,603"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ27)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8043","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,362,843"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ28)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8042","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,293,653"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ29)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8064","15 Jul. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,312,107"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ30)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9389","23 Sep. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,227,653"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ31)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9391","23 Sep. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,234,609"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ32)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0888","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,238,040"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ33)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0891","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,188,415"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ34)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0890","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,227,654"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ35)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0873","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,209,989"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ36)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0993","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,791"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ37)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0890","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,336,710"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ38)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP1398","19 Jan. 1998","An Image Creation Method and","6,217,153"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IJ39)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP2592","25 Mar. 1998","An Image Creation Method and","6,416,167"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IJ40)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP2593","25 Mar. 1998","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,243,113"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ41)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3991","9 Jun. 1998","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,283,581"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ42)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3987","9 Jun. 1998","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,247,790"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ43)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3985","9 Jun. 1998","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,260,953"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ44)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3983","9 Jun. 1998","Image Creation Method and Apparatus","6,267,469"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(IJ45)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Further, the present application may utilize advanced semiconductor fabrication techniques in the construction of large arrays of ink jet printers. Suitable manufacturing techniques are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0185"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/U.S. patent"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"application Ser. No. and"]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PO7935","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,224,780"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM01)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7936","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,235,212"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM02)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7937","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,280,643"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM03)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8061","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,284,147"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM04)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8054","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,214,244"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM05)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8065","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,071,750"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM06)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8055","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,267,905"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM07)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8053","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,251,298"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM08)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8078","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,258,285"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM09)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7933","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,225,138"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM10)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7950","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,241,904"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM11)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7949","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,299,786"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM12)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8060","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","09\/113,124"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM13)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8059","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,231,773"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM14)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8073","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,190,931"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM15)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8076","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,248,249"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM16)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8075","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,290,862"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM17)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8079","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,241,906"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM18)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8050","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","09\/113,116"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM19)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8052","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,241,905"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM20)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7948","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,451,216"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM21)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7951","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,231,772"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM22)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8074","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,274,056"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM23)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7941","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,290,861"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM24)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8077","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,248,248"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM25)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8058","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,306,671"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM26)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8051","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,331,258"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM27)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8045","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,110,754"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM28)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7952","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,294,101"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM29)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8046","15 Jul. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,416,679"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM30)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8503","11 Aug. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,264,849"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM30a)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9390","23 Sep. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,254,793"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM31)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9392","23 Sep. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,235,211"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM32)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0889","12 Dec. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,235,211"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM35)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0887","12 Dec. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,264,850"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM36)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0882","12 Dec. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,258,284"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM37)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0874","12 Dec. 1997","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,258,284"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM38)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP1396","19 Jan. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,228,668"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM39)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP2591","25 Mar. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,180,427"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM41)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3989","9 Jun. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,171,875"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM40)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3990","9 Jun. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,267,904"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM42)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3986","9 Jun. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,245,247"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM43)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3984","9 Jun. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,245,247"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM44)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP3982","9 Jun. 1998","A Method of Manufacture of an Image","6,231,148"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Creation Apparatus (IJM45)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Fluid Supply","Further, the present application may utilize an ink delivery system to the ink jet head. Delivery systems relating to the supply of ink to a series of ink jet nozzles are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications, the disclosure of which are hereby incorporated by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0188"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/"]},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. patent appli-"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"cation Ser. No."]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","and Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PO8003","15 Jul. 1997","Supply Method and","6,350,023"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (F1)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8005","15 Jul. 1997","Supply Method and","6,318,849"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (F2)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9404","23 Sep. 1997","A Device and Method","09\/113,101"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(F3)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Further, the present application may utilize advanced semiconductor microelectromechanical techniques in the construction of large arrays of ink jet printers. Suitable microelectromechanical techniques are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0185","num":"0190"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/"]},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. patent appli-"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"cation Ser. No."]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","and Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PO7943","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS01)",{}]},{"entry":["PO8006","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS02)","6,087,638"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8007","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS03)","09\/113,093"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8008","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS04)","6,340,222"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8010","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS05)","6,041,600"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8011","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS06)","6,299,300"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7947","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS07)","6,067,797"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7945","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS08)","09\/113,081"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7944","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS09)","6,286,935"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7946","15 Jul. 1997","A device (MEMS10)","6,044,646"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9393","23 Sep. 1997","A Device and Method","09\/113,065"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(MEMS11)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0875","12 Dec. 1997","A Device (MEMS12)","09\/113,078"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0894","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method","09\/113,075"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(MEMS13)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Further, the present application may include the utilization of a disposable camera system such as those described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0192"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00020","num":"00020"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/U.S. patent"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"application Ser. No."]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","and Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PP0895","12 Dec. 1997","An Image Creation Method and","6,231,148"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IR01)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0870","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR02)","09\/113,106"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0869","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR04)","6,293,658"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0887","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and","09\/113,104"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IR05)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0885","12 Dec. 1997","An Image Production System (IR06)","6,238,033"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0884","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and","6,312,070"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IR10)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0886","12 Dec. 1997","Image Creation Method and","6,238,111"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IR12)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0871","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR13)","09\/113,086"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0876","12 Dec. 1997","An Image Processing Method and","09\/113,094"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (IR14)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0877","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR16)","6,378,970"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0878","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR17)","6,196,739"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0879","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR18)","09\/112,774"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0883","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR19)","6,270,182"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0880","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR20)","6,152,619"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0881","12 Dec. 1997","A Device and Method (IR21)","09\/113,092"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Further, the present application may include the utilization of a data distribution system such as that described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0194"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00021","num":"00021"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/"]},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. patent appli-"]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"cation Ser. No."]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","and Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PP2370","16 Mar. 1998","Data Processing","09\/112,781"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Method and Apparatus","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(Dot01)"]},{"entry":["PP2371","16 Mar. 1998","Data Processing","09\/113,052"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Method and Apparatus","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(Dot02)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Further, the present application may include the utilization of camera and data processing techniques such as an Artcam type device as described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross-reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0196"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00022","num":"00022"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Australian",{},{},"U.S. Pat. No.\/U.S."]},{"entry":["Provisional",{},{},"patent application Ser. No."]},{"entry":["Number","Filing Date","Title","and Filing Date"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PO7991","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/113,060"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART01)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7988","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,476,863"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART02)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7993","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/113,073"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART03)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9395","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,322,181"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART04)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8017","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,747"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART06)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8014","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART07)","6,227,648"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8025","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,750"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART08)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8032","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,746"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART09)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7999","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,743"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART10)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7998","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,742"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART11)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8031","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,741"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART12)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8030","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART13)","6,196,541"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7997","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART15)","6,195,150"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7979","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART16)","6,362,868"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8015","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART17)","09\/112,738"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7978","15 Jul. 1997","Media Device (ART18)","09\/113,067"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7982","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,431,669"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART19)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO7989","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,362,869"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART20)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO8019","15 Jul. 1997","Media Processing Method and","6,472,052"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART21)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO7980","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,356,715"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART22)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8018","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,777"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART24)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7938","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/113,224"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART25)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8016","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,366,693"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART26)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8024","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,329,990"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART27)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7940","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,072"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART28)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7939","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/112,785"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART29)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8501","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,137,500"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART30)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8500","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,796"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART31)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7987","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,071"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART32)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8022","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,398,328"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART33)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO8497","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/113,090"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART34)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8020","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,431,704"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART38)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO8023","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,222"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART39)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8504","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,786"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART42)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8000","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,415,054"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART43)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7977","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/112,782"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART44)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7934","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,056"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART45)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7990","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,059"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART46)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8499","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,486,886"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART47)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8502","11 Aug. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,381,361"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART48)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7981","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,317,192"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART50)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO7986","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,057"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART51)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO7983","15 Jul. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,054"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART52)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8026","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,752"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART53)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8027","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,759"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART54)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO8028","15 Jul. 1997","Image Processing Method and","09\/112,757"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART56)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9394","23 Sep. 1997","Image Processing Method and","6,357,135"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART57)","(Jul. 10, 1998"]},{"entry":["PO9396","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/113,107"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART58)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9397","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,271,931"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART59)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9398","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,353,772"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART60)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9399","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,106,147"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART61)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9400","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/112,790"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART62)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9401","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,304,291"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART63)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9402","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","09\/112,788"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART64)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9403","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,305,770"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART65)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PO9405","23 Sep. 1997","Data Processing Method and","6,289,262"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART66)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP0959","16 Dec. 1997","A Data Processing Method and","6,315,200"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Apparatus (ART68)","(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":["PP1397","19 Jan. 1998","A Media Device (ART69)","6,217,165"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Jul. 10, 1998)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention, preferred forms of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 23"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
