---
title: Threaded flanged bushing for fastening applications
abstract: A fastening system includes a first material having a first hole, a second material having a second hole, a bushing, and a threaded bolt. The bushing is located in the second hole and has a first end abutting the first material and a flanged second for securing the bushing to the second material. A threaded bolt extends through the first hole and into the bushing to secure the first material flush against the second material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08267630&OS=08267630&RS=08267630
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08267630
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The U.S. Government has a paid-up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019-02-C-3003 awarded by the U.S. Navy.","Two materials can be joined together by a variety of different techniques, such as welding, adhesives, or fastening. Often times, materials are fastened together by one or more \u201cfasteners\u201d. In this context, a fastener is a piece of hardware that mechanically affixes two or more materials together. Known fasteners include nails, bolts, screws, and rivets. When joining materials with a fastener, it can be desirable to simultaneously distribute load. Known fastener and load distributor combinations include grommets and bushings.","Fastening composite materials creates a unique set of problems related to the thermal properties of the joined materials and the fastener system. Composite materials are desirable due to high strength-to-weight ratios and high temperature resistance, which allows them to be exposed to extreme environments. Composite materials, however, experience significant stresses when joined to metals with significantly different coefficients of thermal expansion. The disparity in thermal properties between composite materials and metals may mechanically strain fasteners as well as the surrounding composite material.","An embodiment of the present disclosure is a fastening system including a bushing and a threaded bolt. The bushing is located within a first hole of a first material. The bushing has a first end substantially flush with a first surface of the first material, a second end having a flange for securing the bushing to the second surface of the first material, and an internally threaded bore extending along an inside surface of the bushing between the first end and second end. The threaded bolt extends through a second hole of a second material and into the bushing located within the first hole. The bushing and the threaded bolt secure the first material flush against the second material.","Another embodiment of the present disclosure is a method for fastening including aligning a first material having a first hole and a second material having a second hole so that the first hole and the second hole are coaxial and the first material and the second material are flush against one another. The method further includes inserting an internally threaded bushing into the first hole so that a first end of the bushing abuts the second material surrounding the second hole and a flanged second end extends out of the first hole to contact the first material surrounding the first hole. Additionally, the method includes securing the flanged second end of the bushing to the first material surrounding the first hole and inserting a bolt through the second hole into the bushing, thereby fastening the first material flush against the second material.","An internally threaded, flanged bushing for fastening applications, as well as systems and methods of use is provided. The bushing of the present disclosure can be advantageous where threads are required in a material which cannot, itself, be threaded. In addition, the bushing of the present disclosure can be advantageous where composite laminates or neat resin thermoplastics are subjected to thermal stresses.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":["10","12","14","16","14","11","13","18","16","15","17","19","20","12","18","10","20","14","16"]},"First material  has top surface  and opposing, parallel bottom surface . First material  has first hole  extending perpendicularly from top surface , through first material , to bottom surface . Similarly, second material  has top surface  and opposing, parallel bottom surface . Second material  has second hole  extending perpendicularly from top surface , through second material , to bottom surface . Located on bottom surface , extending into second material  toward top surface , and generally surrounding second hole  is counter bore . Bottom surface  of first material  and top surface  of second material  are in physical contact so that the two surfaces ,  lie flush against one another. First material  can be a composite laminate, neat resin thermoplastic, or metal. Likewise, second material  can be a composite laminate, neat resin thermoplastic, or metal. First material  and second material  are aligned so that first hole  is coaxial with second hole . In the embodiment depicted, first hole  and second hole  are simple circular holes, although the fastening system is not so limited. In order to accommodate fastener , a diameter of second hole  can be greater than a diameter of first hole .","Fastener  includes bushing , which has body , flange , and internally threaded bore . Body  can be further sub-divided into first end  and second end . Internally threaded bore  extends along an inside surface of body  between first end  and second end , and flange  is attached to second end . As a component of fastener , bushing  is located within second hole  such that first end  is abutting bottom surface  of first material  and flange  extends out of second hole  to rest within counter bore  second material . A light press fit between bushing  and second hole  will insure 360 degree contact, which can be desirable for load distribution. Although counter bore  is shown and described, in alternative embodiments counter bore  is absent so that flange  extends out of second hole  and attaches to bottom surface  of second material  to prevent pull-out. Without flange , a high-enough load directed from bolt  could cause fastener  to slide out of second hole . The perimeter of flange  is shaped like an oval, a race-track, or a truncated circle, so that additional bushings  can be inserted through first material  and second material  in close proximity to one another. In other words, bushing  has a smaller footprint than commercially available grommets and only minimally intrudes into second material , allowing more fasteners  to be inserted in a given area.","Bushing  is \u201clow-profile\u201d in that it lies just above, flush with, or below the surface of a parent material to which it attaches. For example, first end  is depicted as substantially flush with top surface  of second material  and adjacent or abutting bottom surface  of top material . This low-profile configuration allows first material  and second material  to be fastened flush against one another. Second material  can also include counterbore  so that flange  is substantially flush with bottom surface  of second material . When a fastener protrudes through the parent material, it can change the aerodynamics of the parent material and\/or interfere with the interior structure of the parent material and\/or complicate the mounting of additional exterior materials. A low-profile bushing, such as bushing  of the present disclosure, is advantageous because it does not significantly alter the surface of the parent material.","Bushing bore  includes bushing threads  for receiving bolt and\/or insert . In the depicted embodiment, fastener  includes commercially available insert  where both external threads  and internal threads  are unified national coarse (UNC) threads, therefore having fewer threads per inch than unified national fine (UNF) threaded inserts. When insert  is disposed within bore , external threads  engage bushing threads  and internal threads  engage bolt threads . One or more stakes  can be positioned within bore  between insert  and bushing . Bore  has one or more internal slots  running vertically through bushing threads  for receiving stakes . Likewise, insert  has one or more external slots  running vertically through external threads  for receiving stakes . Stakes  prevent inadvertent rotation of insert  relative to bushing . Insert  can also include internal thread-locking ring  and annular groove  in internal threads  for receiving thread-locking ring . Thread-locking ring  comprises plastic, which is configured to crush when bolt threads  engage internal threads  of insert . When thread-locking ring  is crushed, the inner diameter of insert  is slightly reduced, thereby creating an engagement between insert  and bolt  that can withstand prolonged vibrations. Equivalents of thread-locking ring  include, but are not limited to, self-locking threads, self-locking features, adhesives, or self-locking inserts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"],"b":["2","2","10","10","36","44","22","10"]},"Bushing body  has internally threaded bore  for receiving a bolt and\/or an insert. Internal bushing threads  receive external threads  of insert , or in alternative embodiments, for directly receiving a bolt (see ). External threads  engage bushing threads  so that insert  is secured within bore  Bore  further includes internal slots  for receiving outside surfaces of stakes  and insert  has external slots  for receiving inside surfaces of stakes , such that stakes are sandwiched between insert  and bore . Stakes  prevent rotation of bushing  relative to insert . Internal threads  of insert  are configured to receive bolt . Thread-locking ring  is included near a bottom of internal threads  to further secure bolt  within insert . One or more holes  can be located on opposing sides of flange . Holes  are configured to receive rivets and thereby secure bushing  to a parent material (such as second material ). The rivet-hole combination counters installation and assembly torques. In the embodiment depicted, flange  has two parallel secant cuts located 90\u00b0 from holes , which create an oval or race-track shape. The oval shape is defined by two essentially parallel sides connected by two curved sides and is advantageous because it allows for more bushings  to be placed side-to-side into any given area.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["22","36","22","24","26","28","30","32","34","22","22","32","28","30","24","26","22","26","26","22","54","26","24","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["10","22","36","44","10","10","22","22","24","26","24","22","22","26","22","56","26","24","56","22","56","22","22","22","56","36"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["10","22","12","14","16","10","10","10","22","22","22","22","24","28","30","32","22","20","22","22","22","24","22","32","12","32","12","22","22","22"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents can be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications can be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
