---
title: Intelligent clearing network
abstract: In an embodiment, a system for validating, redeeming, and financially settling paper coupons coded with a GS1 barcode and 8110 Application Identifier comprises a real time network through which a Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal communicates directly to, or through a POS controller, with an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) server. One or both of the POS terminal and POS controller are installed with a ICN POS data bridge which stores computer code. The ICN server is configured to run a real time application while in communication with the POS terminal, wherein the POS terminal transmits paper coupon data elements read from the GS1 barcode and other consumer transaction information including universal product codes purchased, and transaction details to the ICN server via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386309&OS=08386309&RS=08386309
owner: Intelligent Clearing Network, Inc.
number: 08386309
owner_city: New Canaan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091002
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part patent application, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 from continuation-in-part U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/283,206, filed Sep. 9, 2008, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/439,725, filed May 23, 2006, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","The invention relates to the electronic clearing, and financial settlement of coupons coded with a barcode application identifier and, in particular, to a real time network based system and method for validating and redeeming paper coupons coded with, for example, a barcode identifier, such as a GS1 barcode 8110 application identifier.","Coupons provide benefits to manufacturers and consumers. For example, coupons are a beneficial way for manufacturers to test consumer interest in specific products, determine optimal pricing, and move out older inventory. Mail by the postal system, newspapers, and stores usually serve as outlets for providing coupons to consumers. Consumers benefit because coupons are universally accepted, follow GS1 (including Uniform Commercial Code) guidelines, are easily understood by consumers, and require no prior notification to a retailer. The coupons may be clipped out from the source document.","However, the process of validating, clearing and financial settlement associated with paper coupons can be a slow, labor intensive process potentially prone to fraud and misuse. An extraordinary number of paper coupons are printed, distributed and redeemed each year. Once a coupon is redeemed by the consumer, the paper coupon is monetized and it must flow through the current manual clearing and settlement process before the retailer is reimbursed for the value of the paper coupon and the cost of handling the paper coupon. This physical paper coupon clearing process can be slow and manual and sometimes requires a second independent count of each paper coupon before a retailer is reimbursed. Also, within the current paper clearing and settlement process there can be the issue of disputes and charge backs by the manufacture for the value of the redeemed paper coupon to the retailer for paper coupons which the retailer redeemed, but should not have because they were invalid in some way, whether it was because the paper coupon was a copied, or was redeemed after the expiration date on the paper coupon.","Accordingly, there is need for a real time, convenient way for validating and processing paper coupons quickly, eliminating potential fraud, and providing an auditable and comprehensive financial settlement process, which would eliminate the need for manually counting and validating each paper coupon redeemed.","In accordance with a first aspect of the invention, a system comprises an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) network; a point-of-sale (POS) terminal; a POS controller; an intelligent clearing network (ICN) server, an ICN database, and an ICN master coupon table. The POS terminal is configured to transmit at least one of 1) first coupon data elements read from a GS1 barcode by the POS terminal, 2) universal product codes of an item purchased, 3) transaction detail information, 4) other related information at the POS terminal to the POS controller, and 5) directly, via the ICN network, to the ICN server for coupon redemption, validation, and financial settlement via the ICN network at the ICN server.","In accordance with a second aspect of the invention, a master coupon storage medium is configured to store an ICN database. Details defining all coupons printed and distributed with a GS1 barcode are stored centrally in the ICN database on an ICN server configured to be used to validate, redeem, and financially settle all coupons printed with a GS1 barcode. The master coupon storage medium comprises at least one storage device and an interface configured to communicate with the ICN server. The ICN server is configured to communicate over an ICN network with one or more point of sale terminals of a retailer.","In accordance with a third aspect of the invention, a method for processing coupons comprises reading GS1 data elements from a scanned coupon at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal, the GS1 data elements including universal product code information; transmitting the GS1 data elements through a network to an ICN server for validation and redemption; if the ICN server validates the GS1 data elements, and transmitting first coupon related information through the network to the POS terminal. The POS terminal is configured to transmit second coupon related information to a POS controller through an ICN POS bridge upon successful redemption of the scanned coupon. Second coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, an application identifier, and retailer identification information.","In accordance with a fourth aspect of the invention, a method for processing coupons comprises reading first GS1 databar coupon related information from a terminal, the first GS1 databar coupon related information including universal product code information; transmitting the first GS1 databar coupon related information through a network to an ICN server for validation and redemption; if the ICN server validates the first GS1 databar coupon related information, transmitting second coupon related information through the network to the terminal. The ICN server transmits second GS1 databar coupon related information to a POS controller via an ICN network, wherein the POS terminal transmits third GS1 databar coupon related information to the POS controller through an ICN POS bridge upon successful redemption of a coupon. The third GS1 databar coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, GS1 databar coupon code of the second coupon related information, an application identifier, and retailer identification information.","In accordance with a fifth aspect of the invention, a computer readable medium storing computer code for processing GS1 databar coupons across a network, comprises computer code configured to transfer first GS1 databar coupon related information including universal product code information from a terminal across the network; computer code for receiving, interpreting, and comparing the first GS1 databar coupon related information at an ICN server; if a GS1 databar coupon code is validated, computer code for retrieving GS1 databar coupon codes and any corresponding target universal product codes triggered by the validation of the GS1 databar coupon codes from a centralized database; computer code configured to transmit the retrieved GS1 databar coupon codes to the terminal via the network; and computer code configured to redeem the GS1 databar coupon codes. The ICN server is configured to transmit second GS1 databar coupon related information to the POS controller via the ICN network. The POS terminal is configured to transmit third GS1 databar coupon related information to the POS controller through an ICN POS data bridge upon successful redemption of a GS1 databar coupon. The third GS1 databar coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, GS1 databar coupon code of the second GS1 databar coupon related information, an application identifier, and retailer identification information.","In a sixth aspect of the invention, a computer readable storage medium is embodied with computer code for processing coupons across an intelligent clearing network (ICN) network. First computer code may permit a user to download and print out a GS1 databar paper coupon accessed via the world wide web where the coupon having first GS1 databar paper coupon related information. Second computer code may transfer the first GS1 databar paper coupon related information including universal product code information from a terminal across the ICN network. Third computer code is configured to receive, interpret, and compare the first GS1 databar paper coupon related information at an ICN server. If a GS1 databar paper coupon code is validated, fourth computer code may retrieve GS1 databar paper coupon codes and any corresponding target universal product codes triggered by the validation of the GS1 databar paper coupon codes from a centralized database. Fifth computer code is configured to transmit the retrieved GS1 databar paper coupon codes to the terminal via the network. Sixth computer code may redeem the GS1 databar paper coupon codes. The ICN server transmits second GS1 databar paper coupon related information to a point-of-sale (POS) controller via the ICN network. A POS terminal transmits third GS1 databar paper coupon related information to the POS controller through an ICN POS bridge upon successful redemption of a GS1 databar paper coupon. The third GS1 databar paper coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, GS1 databar paper coupon code of the second coupon related information, an application identifier, and retailer identification information. Seventh computer code may be executed to notify the ICN server of successful coupon redemptions.","In a seventh aspect of the invention, a point of sale (POS) terminal comprises a first interface configured to receive information regarding a transaction to purchase at least one product; a second interface configured to receive information from and transmit information to a retailer server; a processor; and a memory configured to store point of sale bridge computer code for redeeming a manufacturer first GS1 databar paper coupon contained in a promotion request message received through the second interface. The processor is configured to receive information from the first interface and to receive and transmit information through the second interface and configured to execute the point of sale bridge computer code. The second GS1 databar paper coupon related information is received via the ICN network. The POS terminal transmits third GS1 databar paper coupon related information to the POS controller through ICN POS bridge upon successful redemption of a GS1 databar paper coupon, the third GS1 databar paper coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, GS1 coupon code of the second GS1 databar paper coupon related information, an application identifier, and retailer identification information. The first interface is configured to communicate with a universal product code reading device.","In a eighth aspect of the invention, a point of sale (POS) retailer server comprises a first interface configured to receive information from and transmitting information to a point of sale terminal; a second interface configured to receive information from and transmit information to an intelligent clearing network server via a network; a processor; and a memory configured to store computer code for a point of sale bridge configured to format a promotion request message and send the promotion request message in real time to an intelligent clearing network server promotion redemption real time service. The processor is configured to receive and transmit first GS1 databar paper coupon related information through the first and second interfaces and configured to execute the point of sale bridge computer code. The POS retailer server is configured to receive second GS1 databar paper coupon related information via the intelligent clearing network (ICN) network. The POS retailer server is configured to transmit third GS1 databar paper coupon related information through ICN POS bridge computer code upon successful redemption of a GS1 databar paper coupon. The first GS1 databar paper coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, an application identifier, and retailer identification information.","In a ninth aspect of the invention, an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) server comprises a processor; an interface configured to permit communications over a network; and an ICN database. The processor of the ICN server is configured to control the execution of an ICN promotion manager application, an ICN database application, and an ICN promotion redemption service and is configured to receive and transmit data and commands through the interface. The ICN server is configured to receive first coupon related information from a point of sale (POS) controller, wherein the ICN server is configured to transmit second coupon related information to the point of sale (POS) controller via an ICN network. The POS controller is configured to transmit the third coupon related information to the POS controller upon successful redemption of a GS1 databar paper coupon. The third GS1 databar paper coupon related information comprises identification information from the product purchased, an application identifier, and retailer identification information.","Non-limiting embodiments of the invention are further described below. However, it should be appreciated that some of the features of the embodiments of the invention may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features. As such, the foregoing description should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the invention, and not in limitation thereof. Further, one skilled in the art may appreciate that the invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments; that these described embodiments are presented for the purposes of illustration and not of limitation.","Embodiments of the invention relate to a coupon processing system and method that allows for automatic processing of coupons and provides linkage between a coupon card and coupon information stored in a centralized database. The coupon processing may entail validation (and invalidation) and, when validated, redemption of the appropriate coupon(s) or other appropriate action. The embodiments present novel ways of bundling technologies, including existing technologies such as real time communications and large volume data processing facilities, into a functioning operational platform and also present novel ways for doing business. Consumers may use the coupon card for a variety of products offered by a manufacturer and\/or retailer.","Thus, according to some embodiments, a real time system is connected to the point-of-sale (POS) terminal and or POS controller wherein the real time system delivers manufacture paper coupon codes or GS1 paper coupon codes directly into a live transaction bypassing the POS scanner and the need for a paper coupon to be presented and subsequently cleared and settled manually. In another aspect of the invention, a real time system is connected to the POS terminal and or POS controller wherein the real time system can execute a coupon discount at the POS without any prior coupon definition or coupon data elements of the coupon related information being loaded onto the POS system. In yet another aspect of the invention, a real time system is connected to the POS terminal or POS controller wherein the real time system can determine in real time the association between the manufacture paper coupon code or the GS1 paper coupon code delivered by the real time system electronically bypassing the scanner and the product or products the coupon discount was applied to by the POS system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"114"},"An ICN is a system that can provide for the electronic validation and redemption of coupons and\/or incentives through real time communications and a centralized database, such as ICN database , which is coupled to the ICN server . The ICN server  executes software applications that process coupons for one or more manufacturers who have transacted with the owner of the ICN server  to provide such processing. The ICN server is accessible via a retailer's wide area or other network (WAN or other network) and has an ICN promotion redemption service (PRS) installed and running in real time to accept connections over a configured listening transfer control protocol port. In embodiments, a plurality of manufacturer servers  may be configured to communicate with the ICN server . The ICN server  may tabulate the raw data of the coupon processing transactions for a specific manufacturer and provide the tabulated data to the specific manufacturer in the form of reports.","Coupon and\/or incentive processing typically include validation and redemption and the supplying of the raw data to the appropriate manufacturer. In the embodiment shown in , a coupon card may be read by a card reader  at a retail store or other establishment. The coupon information from the coupon card may then be sent to the Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal which then may transmit the information to the retail store server . The central component of a POS terminal is the processor that executes software application(s). The POS terminal may include a processor, memory, input\/output interface circuitry, and the software application(s) to reformat coupon information in an appropriate digital form. The retail store server may record the coupon information and may transmit it to server , such as an ICN server, via a network . The retail store server, which may be a retail POS controller, includes a processor and input\/output interfaces, as needed, and may be implemented as a microprocessor based device, a main frame, a stand alone computer, or a network of computing devices. An ICN server may be a server dedicated solely to the processing of manufacturers' coupons and includes a processor. Associated with the server may be a centralized database  that is incorporated within the server or may be a stand alone device or storage system, such as a Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID). The network  may be an internet, such as the World Wide Web, an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a high speed dedicated communication line, or another network, and may use wired or wireless technology or a mixture of wired and wireless technology. The ICN server  then may notify the manufacturer of a completed transaction or completed set of transactions by sending status information to the manufacturer's server . As in the case of the ICN server , the manufacturer's server  may also include a processor, input\/output interfaces, and memory to perform the function of processing coupons. The manufacturer's database  may be stored within a memory of the manufacturer's server  or as a stand alone device or system. Instead of transmitting coupon information from the retail server  to the ICN server , the coupon information may be transmitted from the retail server  to the appropriate manufacturer's server  for redemption. In this alternative embodiment, the manufacturer's server  notifies the ICN server  of the coupon redemption, as shown in .","The coupon and\/or incentive processing system (e.g., ICN system) distributes coupon codes, such as standard Uniform Code Council System 5 coupon codes or GS1 coupon codes, associated with a coupon card. In an embodiment, the coupon card may be a one-use card. In another embodiment, the coupon card may be useable as long as at least one coupon offer has not expired for a product that has yet to be purchased or a product limit that has not been attained. In yet another embodiment, the coupon card may be updated so as to provide additional coupon offers to a consumer. In still a further embodiment, the coupon card may be a permanent coupon card in which coupon information is updateable via a manufacturer's server or a coupon processing server.","Embodiments of the invention relate to information associated with a coupon card. A unique account number may be assigned to the consumer coupon card on a magnetic ink character recognition strip (i.e., magstripe) on the back of the consumer coupon card. A magstripe card has a strip of binding material containing ferromagnetic particles which is capable of storing data and is read by a reader head such as may be found in magnetic card readers. The system may include a centralized database containing the unique account numbers assigned to each card and a list of available manufacturer coupon codes assigned to the account numbers on each coupon card. The coupon card may link the consumer at the Point of Sale (POS) to a centralized database where the coupons, promotions, or incentives reside. The linkage of one or more coupons, promotions, or incentives to a coupon card may be set at the time the coupon card is provided with a unique account number or shortly thereafter. In embodiments, where the coupons, promotions, or incentives may be updated, the coupon card account number may be linked to various coupons, promotions, or incentives at various times. In distribution methods contemplated by the invention, the consumer may receive a coupon card through a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, on a product's package, newspapers, magazines, postal system mail, or in-store promotions. In one embodiment, during checkout, the cashier presses a coupon card function key on the POS terminal and the consumer may slide his or her coupon card through the card reader, whereupon the POS terminal software may establish a communications link with a server, such as the retailer's server  or other computing device, and transmit the account number on the coupon card over the store's real time communication line to the centralized database of a coupon processing computer, such as an Intelligent Clearing Network server . The centralized database application may validate the account number, query the centralized database for any active coupon codes found, and transmit the first set of digits\/alphanumeric characters consisting of information, such as the NSC (Number System Code), Manufacturer Number, Family Code, and Value Code of each active coupon code back to the POS terminal. Then, the POS terminal may begin a validation process to validate each coupon code against products purchased by the consumer for any coupon code redeemed, and the POS application, upon validation of a coupon code, may transmit back to the centralized database the second set of digits\/alphanumeric characters, corresponding to the redeemed coupon code, such as the NSC (Number System Code), Manufacturer Number, Family Code, and Value Code. In an example of an implementation, the first set and second set of digits are eleven digits each in the case of a system 5 coupon and or twelve digits each in the case of a system 99 coupon. The first and second set of digits may have an equal number of digits\/alphanumeric characters or a different number of digits or alphanumeric characters. For example, the first set of digits may include 13 alphanumeric characters and the second set 11 alphanumeric characters.","The coupon card  may be formed on a substrate, such as plastic or paper or other medium that is typically flexible, sufficiently durable, and cost effective to produce. For example, a 10 mil thick plastic sheet may be sized to the length and width of a credit card or key ring card. Thus, the coupon card may advantageously be of various sizes including the form of a credit card, grocery store shopper's card or key ring for ease of carrying in a wallet or purse or on a key ring.","As shown in , the front of the coupon card  may display an image  of one or more products for which the coupon card offers a discount, including an image  of the amount and conditions of the savings. The displayed image may be formed through printing directly on the substrate or through application of a preprinted label. Other image forming techniques may be used including polytronic labeling. To better protect the information on a coupon card, non-optically readable technology may be used. The non-optically readable technology may include electromagnetics, magnetics, or smart card technology. As shown in , in an embodiment, the back of the coupon card  has a swipe strip , preferably a Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) strip. Alternatively, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology or other electromagnetics technology, such as Radio Frequency Data Communication (RFDC), may be employed. Where an RFID coupon card is implemented, the corresponding electronic circuitry on the coupon card may be formed on or adhered to the substrate of the coupon card. Yet, alternatively, optically readable technology, such as optically scannable bar codes, may be used. In an optically readable embodiment, coupon identification information  may be provided in a user viewable form on the back of the coupon card . In certain embodiments, biometric identification techniques may be employed. For example, in a biometric identification embodiment, a fingerprint scanning pad may be attached or placed proximate to the card reader in which a communications link is established between the fingerprint scanning pad and the POS terminal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","508","510","504","506","506"]},"Embodiments of the invention offer a way for Consumer Package Good's (CPG) manufacturers (i.e., manufacturers of consumables such as cleaning products, food, beverages, clothing, and the like) to distribute GS1, Uniform Code Council guideline or other coupons without the need of an optically readable barcode. Through a Direct Mail promotion, In-Store promotion, or a Free-Standing Insert (FSI) in the Sunday newspaper, the consumer may receive an insert, sheet, or flyer with a coupon card having a Magnetic Ink Character. Recognition strip on its back. To aid a consumer, a shopping list , as shown in , may be provided along with a removable coupon card  detachable or removable from the insert, sheet, or flyer . To further aid a consumer, coupon information  may be printed or labeled on the insert, sheet, or flyer . The coupon information, in an embodiment, may provide a list of one or more brands with the amount of savings on a purchase; for example, Brand A's coupon may be a 50 cent off coupon, Brand B may require a purchase of two Brand B products for a savings of $2, Brand C may offer a 60 cent savings when purchased with Brand D, etc. Additionally, a space  may be dedicated to advertising, such as by displaying an image of one or more of the products, and another space  dedicated to miscellaneous information, such as a recipe. The revenue source for the coupons may be the manufacturer of Consumer Package Goods (CPG). The CPG manufacturer may pay for printing and distributing coupons on the coupon processing network, including FSI pages, Direct Mail, and In-Store, on package printing or labeling, coupon clearing fees, and real time data feeds for up to date promotion analysis and accounting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["602","604","606","608","610","612","614","616","618"]},"The method of distributing, redeeming, and clearing Manufacturer Coupons may benefit all three groups involved in the transaction\u2014consumers, retailers, and manufacturers. The benefit to consumers is the ease of use because clipping and\/or organizing coupons is no longer needed. The benefits to the retailer are reducing the labor associated with processing paper coupons and substantially reducing the time it takes to receive reimbursement for the promotions from the manufacturer. The benefits to the manufacturer potentially include a better product for the consumer resulting in increase response rates, real time promotion tracking, faster and more reliable accounting, and a reduction in fraud associated with paper coupons.","Thus, embodiments disclosed provide a system and method that may be used for electronically distributing and clearing a variety of coupons. Each coupon may have a code. Each coupon code may include a base portion and an extended portion. For example, the embodiments may be used with GS1 coupons, such as the formerly designated Uniform Code Council (UCC) system five and system ninety nine manufacturer coupons. GS1 format standards are maintained by the GS1 standards organization, formerly known as the Uniform Code Council. In an embodiment, similar to debit, credit and Electronic Benefit Transactions (EBT), the POS terminal reads a unique code from a coupon code and transmits this unique code to a centralized database, such as the centralized database of a coupon processing server via a network.","An example of an implementation of the coupon processing method of the invention is provided. A coupon card with unique coupon card account number 12345678 may have a coupon for 0.50 off a 2 liter beverage drink assigned to it; for example, 54900011050x, where x is the check digit. The check digit may be useful for paper coupons with barcodes being scanned by a scanner. On the ICN centralized database, the full coupon code assigned to card 12345678 may include a string of digits or alphanumeric characters such as 54900011050\u00d78101 0 88062 0306. The consumer may purchase a 2 liter beverage drink with, for example, UPC code 0:49000:06390 and may swipe his or her coupon card. The POS terminal may transmit the coupon card account number, 12345678, to the ICN server. The ICN server may then send back a corresponding coupon code, e.g. 54900011050, to the POS terminal. The POS terminal then may determine if the coupon code is valid through a validation process, such as standard coupon validation routines. The POS terminal may send back to ICN a redeemed coupon code, e.g., 54900011050, and a triggering UPC product code, e.g., 04900006390. The ICN server may also provide in real time to the beverage drink manufacturer the fully redeemed coupon code, the location of the redemption transaction, and the product that triggered the redemption.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},"The method for processing coupons may include reading first coupon related information from a coupon card at a Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal. The first coupon related information may be householder identifier information, account identification, or the like. The first coupon related information may be transmitted through a network to coupon processing server. If the coupon processing server validates the first coupon related information, second coupon related information may be transmitted from the coupon processing server through the network to the POS terminal. The second coupon related information may be one or more system 5 or system 99 coupon codes available to the identified consumer and may include the NSC (Number System Code), Manufacturer Number, Family Code, and Value Code.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["802","804","806","808","810","812","814","816","818","820","822","824","826","828","830"]},"An alternative embodiment is provided in . The unique coupon card account number may be written to an MICR strip on the coupon card . The magnetic strip side of a coupon card is shown . The coupon code may be assigned to the card on the coupon processing server centralized database . A consumer may slide the coupon card through the MICR reader during a POS transaction . The POS software application may transmit the read unique coupon card account number to the coupon processing server  as part of a message package that identifies the retailer and the POS terminal (first coupon related information). The coupon processing server may check to determine if the unique coupon card account number is valid . If the account number is not valid, the coupon processing server may return a decline message to the POS software application . If the account number is validated, the coupon processing server database application may search for coupon codes assigned to the coupon card . A determination may be made as to whether there are active coupons available on the coupon card . If not, the coupon processing server may return a no coupons available message to the POS software application . If the coupon code is validated, active coupon codes (e.g., system 5 or 99 codes) assigned to the card may be transmitted back to the POS for validation against purchases  as part of a message package that identifies the retailer and POS terminal (second coupon related information). For example, the first 11 digits of the coupon code may be transmitted to the POS terminal for validation . A determination may be made as to redemption of the coupon(s) . If there has been no redemption of the coupon(s), the POS may resume the transaction . For coupons which are redeemed, the POS may send back the redeemed coupon code of the product which triggered the coupon redemption to the coupon processing server centralized database  along with the original redeemed coupon code information, the location of the retailer, identification of the POS terminal, and time of purchase (third coupon related information). The coupon processing server centralized database application may update the unique coupon card account number with the time, date, amount, location, and other information relating to the redemption activity . The coupon processing server may generate a report to the manufacturer regarding the coupon redemption transaction as requested or periodically to provide quick market intelligence to a CPG manufacturer.","Embodiments of the method of the invention may be implemented through instructions, stored on a computer-readable medium on a data storage device, which when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to perform the designated operations. The instructions may be stored in computer-readable medium in a distributed fashion across two or more computing devices or as a single computing device. The computing devices may be one or more of the above mentioned servers. In an embodiment, the computer readable medium may be a small flash drive that connects to a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port of a POS terminal, a retailer server, or the like. For example, a small flash drive may measure less than about 10 cm\u00d73 cm\u00d73 cm or may have pen-sized dimensions, such as 71 mm\u00d720 mm\u00d78 mm.","In an embodiment, a computer readable medium storing computer code for processing coupons across a network in response to the non-optical reading of a coupon card, includes computer code for reading identification code from a coupon card that is non-optically read at a Point of Sale terminal; computer code for processing and formatting the read identification code; computer code for transmitting the formatted identification code across the network; computer code for receiving, interpreting, and validating the identification code at coupon processing server; if the identification code is validated, computer code for retrieving coupon codes corresponding to the identification code from a centralized database; computer code for transmitting the retrieved coupon codes to the Point of Sale terminal via the network; and computer code for redeeming the coupon codes.","The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method offers advantages including 1) being easy to use, 2) saving time and money, 3) providing better validation, 4) expanding promotion tracking, 5) increasing response rates, and 6) reducing fraud. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method are easy to use because there is no clipping or organizing of coupons and the coupon card may be discarded after the coupons are redeemed. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method saves time and money because it avoids the manual counting and clearing of paper for both retailers and manufacturers. Coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method coupons clear electronically so that financial settlements may be completed in a short period of time, such as hours, rather than weeks or months. Coupon coding errors may be corrected immediately as manufacturers avoid the handling of misprinted coupons that may circulate for months at a time. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method provides better validation because the expiration dates are enforced by the coupon processing server. Expired coupons are recognized as such and are not sent to the POS for validation. Paper coupons may not be redeemed at a POS because of a faulty barcode or improper coding or printing. With the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method described herein, the use of a magnetic ink character recognition strip or RFID eliminates the problem of poorly printed barcodes. Invalid coupon codes may be corrected immediately in the centralized database. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method expands promotion tracking with the real time reporting of coupon redemptions. Manufacturers are provided with the product information for the product the consumer purchased to trigger the coupon redemption. Manufacturers may track results at the individual household level by assigning unique numbers to the extended portion of the coupon code's application identifier.","Embodiments of the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method described herein also increases response rates by making the process of collecting and redeeming coupons easier and more in line with today's technology. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method further reduces fraud as each coupon may be redeemed only once. Advantageously, the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method centralized database, in accordance with embodiments, does not transmit to the POS a coupon which has already been redeemed. The coupon processing server coupled to the centralized database may also track in real time redemptions by store. Alternatively the centralized database may have one or more coupon processing processors built into it. Each redemption transaction has a date and time stamp. Abnormal transaction volumes from a particular store may be identified to prevent store personnel and\/or others from fraudulently redeeming coupons for personal gain, to meet or exceed sales goals, and the like. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method may prevent the assembling of a large volume of newspaper inserts to redeem coupons without selling the corresponding product. In another example, if someone were to determine how account numbers are generated on the coupon cards, the coupon processing serve may monitor in real time the volume and traffic of redeemed coupons and identify abnormalities to prevent coupon counterfeiting.","A further advantage is that embodiments may be implemented to provide a direct competitor to various marketing services by distributing coupon cards through Direct Mail, In-Store, and FSI or implemented as a service provider to marketing services. For example, marketing services companies may be charged for the distribution of coupons on the coupon processing server in which case the business model may be executed with less expense.","If a coupon is determined to be valid, but the retailer is temporarily out of stock, provisions may be made to issue a rain check electronically. The electronic rain check may be stored in the centralized database. Alternatively, in lieu of a rain check, the coupon processing server may offer a different product of the manufacturer at a special rate to the consumer.","As part of the system and method of the invention, in an embodiment, in-store scanners may also be provided to allow a consumer to reveal unexpired and unused coupons available through his or her coupon card.","In an embodiment, Consumer Package Good's (CPG) manufacturers may create and maintain their own shopper card program. For example, CPG manufacturer A may offer consumers a program in which each consumer or consumer household may sign up for a permanent card number. A consumer using such a coupon card may supply sufficient identification at the Point of Sale. This identification may include a driver's license, a passport, or other identification means, such as entry of a special code or biometrics scanning. The consumer, upon enrolling in a CPG manufacturer's program and being assigned a permanent coupon card, may then select discounts from CPG manufacturer A's web site in which the discounts would then be assigned to that permanent coupon card through a registration process using a centralized database of CPG manufacturer A.","Although some embodiments have been described with the use of a coupon card, embodiments of the invention may be practiced without a coupon card. Embodiments of the invention realized without a coupon card may be found in  and . The embodiments described in , in which a coupon card can be employed may also be adapted to not use a coupon card and instead to either permit a consumer to opt-in to coupons, promotions or incentives or permit a consumer to receive a discount on a product having a target UPC when the target product and\/or a trigger product are purchased. A coupon as used herein is generally a paper, plastic, or other sufficiently physically durable incentive or discount having a manufacturer's UPC bar code to identify the product being discounted. It may generally be delivered via an FSI or direct mail where paper is the delivery vehicle. An incentive may be a non-paper (e.g., purely electronic) discount (e.g., a discount not embodied on a physical medium) provided via an in-store, web or mobile device delivery. Both coupons and incentives may provide a vehicle for delivering discounts that the ICN technology captures when the UPC bar code of a product being purchased is scanned at the POS terminal. A promotion may be the event that delivers coupons and\/or incentives. An FSI paper coupon is an example of a promotion. An in-store tag incentive offering a discount for buying two of an item is another example of a promotion.","In addition to the embodiments referenced above in which media companies which produce media products may be provided with multiple coupon offers like FSI's, (Free Standing Inserts) a control number to avoid multiple redemptions of the same coupons, and the ability to track redemptions based on circulation, embodiments of the invention also can allow for activation of coupons based on or only on the contents of the consumer's basket, or allowing the consumer to opt into promotions via the internet or mobile device. This can allow for consumers to participate in in-store media promotions based on or only on the occurrence of the promoted products being present in the consumer's transaction at the POS.","The ICN system can facilitate incentive management . As an embodiment of a method of incentive management,  shows that ICN may assign each third party (e.g., a retailer, a media company, or a manufacturer) a unique identifier  to securely log into the ICN promotion manager, a web application used for incentive management and real time reporting. A retailer headquarters  may send redemption data validation of offers corresponding to the UPC . A manufacturer may receive detailed redemption reports in real time . The ICN may receive redemption information as an independent third party reporter of validation and redemption . The ICN may generate complete redemption reports and submit these to the CPG manufacturer or distributor if there are no disputes . The ICN may activate a bank automated clearing house (ACH) transfer to a retailer for incentive and handling\/media charges . Information regarding the automated clearing house (ACH) transfer may be sent to the ICN accounts receivable (A\/R) management  which may then generate invoicing summaries and accounts\/receivables reports that may then be electronically submitted  to retailer headquarters .","The ICN promotion manager may be a secure portal that enables complete promotion set-up and control and serves as a user interface for defining retailer identity, promotion composition, and promotion availability. The promotion manager may be implemented as a web application, and be available on any computer with a web browser, such as Microsoft Internet Explorer, and an Internet connection. Access to the promotion manager may be controlled by ICN through managed user ID and passwords.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1508","1510","1502","1504","1506","1512","1516"]},"Consumers may opt into Internet based promotions or mobile device promotions by identifying themselves and purchasing the qualified products in which the consumer might not have a physical card to present. During the checkout process the consumer may identify himself or herself uniquely by entering their unique ID entered when he\/she opts into the promotion on the retailer, manufacturer, or media company web site. The unique ID may be included in the transaction information along with the UPCs or products purchased and transmitted in real time to the ICN server. Or, the consumer may opt into the promotion anonymously. When the consumer opts in, he or she may use their phone or other number as the account number which the coupon(s) would be assigned to. For example, he or she may provide his or her phone number to the cashier or type it in on the keypad during checkout, or the consumer's mobile device or cell phone may have an image containing the consumer's cell phone number which may be scanned by the cashier. He or she may also opt in using the particular retailers frequent shopper card number, the coupon(s) would be tied to the presence of that card number or phone number in the POS transaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 12A and 12B","FIG. 12A"],"b":["1202","1204","1206","8100","8101","1208","1210","1212","1214","1214","1216","1218"]},"Coupons may have trigger UPCs and target UPCs that are the same. That is, the UPCs which trigger the coupon are also the same UPCs which the coupon is applied to. For example, buy two of product C, save $1.00. In more complex coupons and promotions, the trigger and target UPCs may be different. For example, buy product C and save $1.00 on product D.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 12A"],"b":["1220","1222","1224","1226","1228","1230","1232","1234","1236","1238","1240","1242","1244"]},"The retail POS controller, the POS terminal, and the ICN server may each include a processor, as discussed previously, and may have one or more associated memories as well as interfaces for communication with other devices.","In an embodiment, if the ICN promotion redemption real time application or the ICN database server is experiencing down time, the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer's POS controller may automatically fail to a backup ICN promotion redemption real time application and a mirror database maintained by the ICN.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, the ICN can be used to deliver coupons and promotions to a consumer who has opted into a coupon or promotion by visiting the retailer, manufacturer, or media company web site. In this embodiment of the invention, the retailer, manufacturer, or media company can transmit in real time or batch the consumer opt-in information to the ICN database. The consumer opt-in information may include, but is not limited, to a customer identification number which may be but is not limited to the consumer's phone number or frequency shopper identification number, the coupons, incentives, or promotions the consumer opted into and the details of the coupon, promotion, or incentive. The coupons, incentives, or promotions may be retrieved by the ICN promotion manager web application and sent over a network or directly communicated to CPG or CPG media partner which may then provide the coupons, incentives, or promotions as the in-store promotion display or advertisement. Opt-in permits the consumer to participate in promotions without the requirement of printing the coupon at home and bringing it into the store to redeem.","An embodiment where a consumer may opt-in to retrieve a coupon is shown in . Here, a media, manufacturer, or retailer web site  or other party may display one or more selectable coupons for downloading or other retrieval, such as fax to a consumer at a terminal. The media, manufacturer, retailer or other party may be provide promotion or coupon details to the ICN either by manually entering the information into the web based ICN promotion manager application , or by transmitting the information via a web service or batch mode to the ICN promotion manager application , including coupon codes, expiration dates, store location, and trigger and target UPCs. When the consumer visits  the media, manufacturer, or retailer web site  and presents his or her identification, coupons with control numbers selected by the consumer may be printed out or downloaded to the ICN promotion manager  and the ICN database . When the consumer visits the retailer's store and has been provided with knowledge as to available coupons, upon checking out a transaction at a point-of-sale terminal  or other terminal, such as when shopping from home, the point-of-sale terminal or other terminal may provide transactional information, such as UPCs or other product information through the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer POS terminal  to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's POS controller . At this point, the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's store controller  may format a promotion request message and send the promotion request message in real time from the retailer's headquarters  to the ICN promotion redemption real time service , via a network, such as a retailer's wide area network , which is running as a real time service on the ICN server . The ICN promotion redemption service  may compare the UPCs contained in the promotion request message to all active promotions defined by the manufacturer or its representative on the ICN database . For an active promotion where the UPCs contained within the promotion request message satisfy the requirements of that promotion, the ICN promotion redemption service may format a promotion request response message which may include portions of the manufacturer coupon code as shown in  plus the target UPC number of the product the manufacturer coupon may be applied to. The promotion request response message may then be sent back to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's store controller  via the retailer's wide area network  (or, other network) and the retailer's headquarters . The ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's store controller  may be located at one or more or each of the retailer's stores and may then transmit the message to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's POS terminal . The retailer's POS terminal  may attempt to redeem the manufacturer coupon against the target UPC contained in the promotion request message. Upon completion of the checkout transaction  the ICN POS bridge software  may generate a redemption confirmation message which may contain information regarding the success for the coupon redemption process. The redemption confirmation message may be transmitted to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's store controller  which can transmit the redemption confirmation message to the ICN promotion real time redemption service  running on the ICN server , completing a communication loop. In an embodiment, access to the ICN database  is provided only through the ICN server .","The details of the coupon, promotion, or incentive may include NSC Number, Manufacturer Number, Family Code, Value Code, Application Identifier, Product NSC, MOC Code, Expiration Date, Application Identifier, Household Number, Trigger UPCs, Target UPCs, and participating store information may be stored in the ICN Database  and used to validate the purchases in real time by the ICN Network Server . Portions of the Manufacturer coupon, promotion, or incentive may be sent down by the ICN promotion redemption service  to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the retailer's POS controller  and passed to the ICN POS bridge software  installed on the POS terminal , and then delivered to the active checkout transaction . An ICN promotion manager  may set up coupons and\/or promotions over a network  at a media, manufacturer, or retailer web site  using the ICN database .","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, coupons or incentives may be delivered to the consumer based on or entirely on the presence of specific UPCs or products contained in the consumer's transaction at the POS during checkout. An example of this embodiment is a media company advertising a savings, incentive in-store, on the web or via a mobile device which would only require the consumer to purchase the required UPCs or products to activate and receive the coupon or savings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 6"],"b":["1004","1002","1016","1014","1004","1006","1004","1004","1006","1007","1006","1008","1009","1009","1008","1022","1024","1022","1013","1012","1024","1013","1014","1009","1008","1009","1008","1007","1006","1006","1004","1007","1009","1008","1013","1012","1012"]},"The POS data bridge may be implemented as at least one device with software that may be a configurable software suite that is physically installed on the POS environment (controller, and\/or terminals, etc). The ICN Data Bridge may control various POS behavior based on information sent and received to and from the ICN server(s). The POS data bridge software, in an embodiment, may have two distinct parts: one installed on the POS controller in a store and the other installed on each POS terminal in a store. Versions of the POS data bridge software may be adapted as needed or desired for each unique POS vendor (e.g., retailer). In a specific example, a POS data bridge software may be provided for IBM 4690 POS systems in a grocery retail setting or other POS solutions for retail, supply chain, and\/or distribution operations of enterprises. This may include but is not limited to:\n\n","The ICN Application Programming Interface (API) may be a piece of ICN code built into the data bridge which controls 1) the encoding\/decoding of ICN messages in either XML or ICN's binary format. The XML message encoding protocol capability enables 3rd party integrators leveraging devices that do not send as many messages as a POS does, and greater ease of integration. The binary message encoding protocol is compact, designed for speed and lower bandwidth requirements, which lends well to retailers with many stores that each have many lanes.","The communications between the retailer's POS controller  and the retailer's headquarters  may be any transmission control protocol\/interne protocol (TCP\/IP) communication network. For example, the TCP\/IP communication network may be the retailer's wide area network . Other examples of TCP\/IP communication networks that may be used include digital subscriber line (DSL), T1, integrated services digital network (ISDN), multiprotocol label switching (MPLS), etc. The retailer's headquarters  itself may be a centralized point within the retailer's wide area network to which the ICN bridges via ICN bridge software for all network connectivity. It may be the ICN's entry point into the retailer's network (e.g., WAN). The retailer's headquarters  may be the data center (e.g., single node) that facilitates communications with the ICN server or may be a multi-node such as for major tier  retailers widely distributed geographically. The communications network between the POS controller  and retailer's headquarters  may also be used between the POS controller  and retailer's headquarters . The retailer's headquarters  may be the same kind of retailer's headquarters as retailer's headquarters .","In another embodiment,  shows that the ICN server  communicates with the retailer headquarters  of a retailer's WAN . Within the retailer's WAN , the retailer POS controller  communicates with the retailer headquarters  via the ICN POS bridge software installed on the POS controller . The POS terminal  may communicate with the retailer POS controller  via the ICN POS bridge software installed on the POS terminal. Operations of analogous system components are otherwise similar to those disclosed in . The local store network comprises the interconnections between POS controller  and POS terminal  which permit communications between the POS controller ICN POS bridge software  and the POS terminal ICN POS bridge software  and any other communications between the POS controller  and the POS terminal . These interconnections may be cable, radio frequency, optical, and\/or the like. The ICN POS bridge software  may communicate also with the Promotion Redemption Service of the ICN server. The local store network may also be referred to as the store loop and may comprise the cabling within a single retail store that connects all the POS terminals to the POS controller of the store. The in-store promotion display or advertisement  (, ) may be physical signage, displays or end caps without an electronic hardware or may be an electronic display that may receive communications from a CPG or CPG media partner.","In an example of an embodiment of communications between a POS terminal and the ICN server, a promotion request message may be sent by the POS terminal to the ICN server and a promotion response message may be sent in reply by the ICN server to the POS terminal. The POS terminal and the POS controller may communicate through the retailer's WAN through their respective data bridge software in a sequential flow of information where the POS terminal does not communicate directly with the retailer headquarters. In this example of an embodiment, the exchange of messages may follow the following routing. In transmitting the POS terminal may send the promotion request message to the POS controller through the local store network (the local store network may correspond to the retailer's WAN), and the POS controller may send the promotion request message to the retailer headquarter (or, hub or switch) via the retailer's WAN to the ICN promotion redemption real time service (PRS) of the ICN server whereupon the ICN PRS may access the ICN database via the ICN network (e.g., internal ICN network). In reply, the ICN PRS, having accessed the ICN database through the ICN PRS, may send the promotion response message to the retailer headquarters via the retailer's WAN, the retailer headquarters may send the promotion response message to the POS controller via the retailer's WAN (in this and similar embodiments, neither the POS controller nor the POS terminal communicates directly with the ICN server), the POS controller may receive the promotion response message via the retailer's WAN, and may send the promotion response message via the local store network to the POS terminal.","An embodiment of an ICN system of the invention is shown in . An ICN promotion manager web application ASP.NET  may access an ICN database , such as an SQL server. An example of such a manager web application is a promotion manager. Point-of-sale terminals , ,  or similar devices may, during validation and redemption, access an enterprise's computer system  through a retailer controller . In each point-of-sale terminal , ,  or in a memory accessed by the retailer controller  may be installed an ICN point-of-sale data bridge software that may be installed on the retailer's system which enables communications between the ICN server and the retailer's point-of-sale system. The enterprise's computer system  may use the ICN redemption service  (e.g., through a Windows service C#.NET) to access the ICN database .","Various embodiments are contemplated by the invention. In one embodiment, a single ICN server may serve one or more retailers (different business entities). The number of retailers assigned to a single ICN server may depend on the size and number of divisions of the retailer. In another embodiment, multiple ICN servers (e.g., virtual servers) may be hosted on the same single ICN server such as be leveraging technology such as VMWare or logical partitions. In other embodiments, a single ICN server may be dedicated to a retailer. Other embodiments are contemplated by the invention.","In , embodiments may include various underlying retailer WAN configurations and T1 network line (e.g., VPN tunnel, T1, frame, ISDN, DSL, Fiber). The retailer POS terminal may have its own addressable IP and not leverage a POS controller such that the POS terminal can communicate directly with the retailer's HQ. The retailer headquarters (HQ) may be a central network connectivity point, such as a hub or gateway, of the retailer which interfaces with the ICN server. At least one of geographical telephony\/communications, company capabilities, bandwidth requirements, and preference may factor into the selection of network connectivity between the ICN server and the retailer. The configuration and type of the ICN server may vary in accordance with the size of the retailer and the compatibility and performance of available technology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1606","1604"]},"With embodiments of the invention, coupons may be provided for multiple promotions; for example, dental floss may be discounted with the purchase of toothpaste and a toothbrush. Multi-tiered offers involving price are also contemplated; for example, if brand X product is $2, a retailer card holder may receive the brand X product for $1.50 and, if the customer is in the top 20% of the retailer's customer base, may receive the brand X product for $1, among other types of offers. In an example, a CPG company may partner with a retailer or a non-competitive CPG company to offer a discount when the consumer buys both products of both. For example, a consumer may buy Brand C cereal and obtain a pound of Brand D bananas at no extra charge or may buy a jar of Brand P peanut butter and receive a $1 discount on Brand J jelly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1302","1304","1306","1308","1316","1310","1312","1314","1316"]},"Embodiments of the invention enable third party offer providers to communicate through one entry to point of sale and identify duplicate offers (e.g., promotion collisions). The embodiments may be practiced partly (but not entirely) through or entirely through rules-based approvals.","Embodiments of the invention can offer detailed real-time redemption data that can be available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week via the secure ICN promotion manager application and summary redemption data that can allow a manufacturer, media company, or retailer to track promotion performance and budget in real time. An advantage of the embodiments of the invention is that ICN technology may not require any coupon or promotion definition data be sent ahead of time to the retailer because the ICN server in conjunction with the ICN database can maintain and update the coupon offerings of client retailers, manufacturers, and media companies.","Embodiments of the invention having automated clearing house processing by an originating financial institution are illustrated in . At least one embodiment illustrated in each of  may represent a separate system from the ICN coupon and\/or incentive processing system. At least one other embodiment in each of  may integrated with the ICN coupon and\/or incentive processing system. In an embodiment, the ICN billing database may feed the ACH process with the redemption information to create the ACH financial debit or credit in which case the ACH system is subordinate to the ICN system.","In embodiments of the invention, an ICN automatic clearing house (ACH) processing system may be used with the Intelligent Clearing Network. An example of an ACH processing system (or, subsystem) is shown in . The automatic clearing house system may provide an automated interface between ICN's internal billing system and the ACH network provided through the Originating Financial Institution . The ICN ACH processing system  may create ACH files  to send to the Originating Financial Institution  based partly on debit\/credit summary information from each ICN retailer database , and partly on account\/routing information stored on a secure file transfer protocol (FTP) server . The ICN ACH processing system  may also take care of transmitting the resulting ACH files  to the Originating Financial Institution  via transport layer security (TLS) FTP.","In at least one embodiment, the Promotion Manager may be the input mechanism for setting up any type of promotion, the ICN technology may then clear the promoted items electronically and capture the redemption information, and the ACH sub-system (or, financial settlement system or sub-system) may receive the captured redemption information as input and based on the captured redemption information electronically settle the financial obligations of participating parties (e.g., retailer, manufacturer, etc.). In at least one of the embodiments, the invention may be seen as providing a full circle of electronic incentive clearing through financial settlement.","An ACH processing system may be configured to have the following capabilities:\n\n","The first eight ACH processing system capabilities listed above may be provided by a software program (or possibly several programs), such as a C# program. The last ACH processing system capability listed above may be provided by scheduling the software program(s) to run periodically using a scheduler program, such as the Windows Task Scheduler. In this example, the C# program(s) may accumulate unprocessed debits\/credit information for inclusion in the ACH output file  by connecting to a centralized billing database  residing on the secure FTP server . The debit\/credit information in this database may originate from data stored in each ICN retailer database in a table called PROMOTIONAL BILLING. The retailer-specific PROMOTIONAL BILLING tables may be populated by stored procedures that reside within each retailer database. The stored procedures may be responsible for summarizing detailed transaction data into debit\/credit entries and for enforcing applicable business logic. The individual retailer databases may then periodically synchronize their billing information into the centralized billing database by means of SQL Server database replication.","The ACH processing system  may supplement the debit\/credit data it reads from the central billing database with account and routing information. The account and routing information may be required to reside on the secure FTP server and not be stored within the individual retailer databases. Since the central billing database may reside on the secure FTP server, sensitive account and routing information may be stored in the same database for convenience.","In addition to account and routing information, non-sensitive metadata may also be stored in the central billing database (for example, the exact ICN company name and transaction descriptions as they are to appear on customer bank statements). The ACH processing system may read whatever additional metadata it needs to complete the ACH file from the central billing database.","The following is a (partial) list of the type of information that may be needed when producing an ACH output file  (items marked with a * are mostly unchanging in contents or value, i.e., they are static values):\n\n","The C# program may create an ACH output file based on the debit\/credit information that has been accumulated as a result of the selected program options. In an embodiment, only a single output file may be created per processing run; however, the C# program may be extended if necessary to support creation of multiple ACH output files in a single run (for example, if the debits\/credits need to be logically separated into separate transmissions for business reasons, or if there happens to be a maximum size for each ACH transmission and the current debit\/credit load would result in an output file that exceeds this limitation, or if the daily debit\/credit volume limit is exceeded). The ACH output file may be written to a specified directory and named using a specified naming convention (e.g., as per instructions from the Originating Financial Institution).","The ACH file format\/record layout may be adapted for the Originating Financial Institution. For example, the ACH file format\/record layout may comprise a form and\/or functionality from one or more of the following:\n\n","Once the ACH output file(s) have been created, the ACH processing system may transmit the resulting file(s) to the Originating Financial Institution via TLS FTP. The ACH processing system may utilize the free command line utility (ftp client) \u201cwput\u201d for initiating a secure upload of each file over TLS FTP (to a remote ftp server). The C# program may initiate calls to wput for each file it creates.","The ACH processing system  may need to check periodically for return files that are created by Originating Financial Institution  and stored in the \u201cOutbound\u201d folder on Originating Financial Institution's FTP server . These files may contain information that may be of importance to ICN.","For example, Originating Financial Institution may create Notification of Change (NOC) files  on a daily basis. These files may contain information like indications of debits\/credits that didn't process correctly and notifications of changes in account\/routing information. The NOC files may follow the same file format as the ACH output files. The ACH processing system may need to periodically connect to the Originating Financial Institution FTP server via TLS FTP, look for NOC files, pull back any files that are detected, and take appropriate action (e.g., transmittal of an e-mail alert to a designated ICN officer if at least some of the information in the NOC file were to require a manual intervention of some sort).","The ACH processing system may have a command line utility analogous to wput (e.g., wget) for initiating a secure download of available files over FTP TLS.","The C# program can be initiated manually from the command line by typing in the program name and providing the appropriate arguments. By default, the program may process all pending debits\/credits. The C# program may allow a user to specify command line arguments indicating which debits\/credits need to be processed, for example, in limiting processing based on a particular promotion, retailer, media partner, or individual debit\/credit that has failed and needs to be re-sent. The C# program may create log entries for every run containing summary counts and debug information for troubleshooting purposes. The log file may have a specified naming convention and may be written to a specified directory on the FTP server. The C# program(s) may be scheduled to run periodically using the Windows Task Scheduler.","A billing system, as illustrated in , may generate auditable incremental credit & debit based upon the information stored in the ICN retailer database for a given promotion and the detail present in the Redemptions structure.","For a promotion (at least one promotion or every promotion), the following entities, as shown in , may exist for billing purposes and tie directly back to a promotion definition in the Promotion Manager:","1. Promotion Sponsor  (who gets debited for the promotion's liability) The promotion sponsor is the party that has agreed to pay for the promotion activity. The promotion sponsor may be a retailer, a manufacturer, or another entity.","2. Retailer  (who gets credited back for the promotion, plus x cents per redemption)","3. ICN  (a transaction fee, clearing fee, and\/or processing fee may be paid to ICN from a portion of money debited from the promotion sponsor)","Note that for each of the 3 entities above, there may be \u201cbilling rates\u201d that dictate, by company ICN deals with, for credits and debits. The per redemption \u201cbilling rate\u201d for debits and for credits can be separate and different for each company.","An example of a process for debiting and crediting between a retailer, the ICN, and the promotion sponsor.\n\n","Thus for any promotion run by a Promotion Sponsor, assuming there are 100 redemptions of a 50 cent coupon, and assuming the Promotion Sponsor has a debit rate of 10 cents per redemption and the retailer has a credit rate of 4 cents per redemption, the following example is meant to illustrate aspects of the processing:\n\n","Modifications to the above billing processing example may be made in part or all of the following manner:\n\n","Other variations may be made to the billing processing such as by incorporating one or more of the following features:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0169"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 18"],"b":["2000","2022","2020","2014","2018","2002","2012","2018","2002","2002","2004","2006","2008","2010","2018","2014","2034","2036","2038","2040","2034","2032","2030","2028","2026","2024","2020","2024","2014"]},"In view of the foregoing, it can be seen that as alternative to a coupon, Applicant has provided for a coupon card in embodiments. In other embodiments, a coupon card is not employed. Thus, many options and advantages are offered by Applicant's embodiments. For example, although a coupon card is convenient, there may be times where a coupon card is not preferred for conducting consumer transactions with, e.g., a retailer or wholesaler.","Also, embodiments of Applicant's invention can provide a coupon and\/or incentive redeemer with information as to the entire purchases made by a consumer or in a transaction. Embodiments can provide the manufacturer and retailer with information in a complete and real time manner.","Accordingly, embodiments of the invention can provide for real time coupon and\/or incentive validation in which data about entire transactions are provided in real time to an Intelligent Clearing Network that can avoid multiple redemptions of the same coupons and\/or incentives and can avoid redeeming a coupon and\/or incentive against an unintended product. The current business model also can allow for activation of coupons and\/or incentives based on or only on the contents of the consumer's basket, or allowing the consumer to opt into promotions via the internet. This can allow for consumers to participate in in-store media promotions based on or only on the occurrence of the promoted products being present in the consumer's transaction at the POS. This also can allow consumers to opt into internet based promotions by identifying themselves and purchasing the qualified products.","Not only can embodiments of the invention allow for the redemption of coupons found in Free Standing Inserts, but also can permit the validation and redemption of coupons and\/or incentives found via in-store promotions or on the internet. During the checkout process at a point-of-sale terminal, a series of events may occur: sale data is transmitted via a wide area network from a retailer site to an enterprise (e.g., retailer headquarters), the enterprise forwards data via high-speed connection to the Intelligent Clearing Network servers, Intelligent Clearing Network application software determines that promotion parameters are met, and if the promotion parameters are met, the Intelligent Clearing Network returns information to the enterprise and point-of-sale terminal that the consumer has satisfied the promotion parameters and the coupon and\/or incentive offer has been redeemed. It is possible that the entire coupon and\/or incentive redemption process may be completed in one second or less.","In one or more embodiments of the invention, a system for redeeming coupons comprises a network through which a Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal communicates, through a POS controller, with an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) server. One or both of the POS terminal and POS controller are installed with POS bridge software. The ICN server is configured to run a real time software application while in communication with the POS terminal, wherein the POS terminal transmits coupon transaction information including universal product codes to the ICN server via the network. Coupons and incentives can be redeemed when the consumer purchases the products promoted by a media company, manufacturer or retailer on the internet or in-store or other promotional materials such as newspapers, magazines, and direct mail. The system may use trigger universal product codes to validate coupons and\/or incentives and target universal product codes to properly redeem coupons.","Clearing GS1 Databar Paper Coupons Using the ICN Technology","GS1 Databar is a barcode standard, which provides for expanded information to be provided in a barcode. The GS1 Databar is scheduled to replace the old UPC-A type barcode on all paper coupons printed and distributed in the U.S. in January 2010. A Retailer may upgrade its POS Software and Scanner Software and even replace physical equipment, such as scanners, to read the GS1 Databar. After January 2010, it is possible that only the new GS1 Databar will be printed on a paper coupon and retailers may be required to update their systems or, otherwise, have their cashiers manually enter the coupon value through the POS Terminal Keyboard.","The new GS1 Databar contains detailed new data elements that can be read by the ICN Data bridge system, including software or code, when installed on the POS Terminal scanning the paper coupons. The new detailed information need not be captured by the POS system or passed onto the Coupon distributors to facilitate electronic clearing of the paper coupon with the new GS1 Databar. Advantageously, embodiments of the invention, can read these new data elements in Real Time and electronically clear the paper coupon.","Electronic Clearing of GS1 Databar 8110 Coupons","There are methodologies for electronically clearing paper GS1 databar paper coupons, specifically 8110 Application Identifier coded coupons, which differ in form and function from the historic 8100, 8101, and 8102 coded coupons.","The GS1 Databar 8110 Coupon Background","GS1 Databar 8110 coupon expands common existing 8100, 8101, and 8102 coupon fields and introduces additional optional fields. Fields for GS1 databar paper coupons include, which may be required: 1) the Application Identifier, 2) Primary Company Prefix, 3) Offer Code, 4) Save Value, 5) Primary Purchase Requirement, 6) Primary Purchase Requirement Code, and lastly 7) Primary Purchase Family Code. These fields coupled with several additional optional fields make fraud proof redemptions possible. Those optional fields of interest include primarily the Optional Data Field , the Serial Number, coupled with Optional Data Fields  and , Expiration Date and Start Date respectively.","Fraud Proof Redemptions of 8110 Coupons","The 8110 Coupon fields coupled with a uniquely assigned serial number yield a unique physical existence of a coupon. Coupon printers may be set up to adhere to ranges of serial numbers, both for uniqueness and also for tracking printed coupon quantities. A physically unique coupon (8110 required fields+option serial number) may then be validated against a central host system to determine if it's been redeemed yet or not. If it has not yet been redeemed, the central host system can indicate that the coupon is unredeemed and log a redemption to ensure the uniquely identified coupon cannot be redeemed again. The cashier may then dispose of the coupon, no other validation or method for counting being required. The optional fields of Expiration Date and Start Date may also be inspected by the host system to ensure redemption falls within the designated active period of the coupon, to eliminate human cashier error and also fraud.","Different processes, which ICN may deploy to clear paper coupons with the new GS1 Databar, include.\n\n","In accordance with an aspect of the invention, a system is provided that comprises an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) network; a point-of-sale (POS) terminal; a POS controller; an ICN server, wherein the POS terminal transmits first data elements of the GS1 barcode printed on the paper coupon along with other transaction information to the POS controller or directly to the ICN server via the ICN network for real time paper coupon validation and or the recording of the GS1 barcode data elements along with transaction details in the ICN database.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and an 8110 application identifier may be scanned at the POS terminal and the data elements contained within the GS1 barcode may then be transmitted to the ICN Server via the ICN Network. The GS1 barcode data elements may include but are not limited to the Manufacture number, Manufacture offer code, Coupon value, Coupon expiration date, Coupon family code, Coupon serial number and Universal Product Codes of required product purchases. Also, transaction details including but not limited to Current date and time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane number, Cashier number, Universal Product Codes of all items purchased in the transaction, and the Consumer loyalty ID number if present, may be transmitted to the ICN server via the ICN network. All of these data elements can be written to the ICN database.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon coded with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and does not contain a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon can be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the expiration date included in the GS1 barcode data elements transmitted to the ICN server with the current date and send a message via the ICN network to the POS terminal as to whether the paper coupon is valid. If the current date is less than or equal to the coupon expiration date, the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the current date is greater than the expiration date of the paper coupon the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. A paper coupon which is determined to be valid and which is redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information may be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements may include, but are not limited to Manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Current Date and Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and which does not contain a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon can be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the family code included in the GS1 barcode data elements transmitted to the ICN server against the family codes assigned to the universal product codes purchased during the transaction and the master family code table in the ICN Database and send a message via the ICN network to the POS terminal as to whether the paper coupon purchase requirements have been met. If the family code contained within the GS1 barcode matches the family code of any of the purchased products in the transaction when compared to the master family code table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the family code contained within the GS1 barcode does not match the family code of any of the purchased products in the transaction when compared to the master family code table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. For a paper coupon which is valid and redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information will be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements include but are not limited to Manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Current Date and Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and which does not contain a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon may be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the coupon value included in the GS1 barcode data elements transmitted to the ICN server against the master coupon table on the ICN Database and send a message via the ICN network to the POS terminal as to whether the paper coupon is valid. If the value contained within the GS1 barcode matches the value assigned to the coupon in master coupon table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the value contained within the GS1 barcode does not match the value assigned to the coupon in master coupon table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. For a paper coupon which is valid and redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information may be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements may include but are not limited to Manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Current Date and Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and which does not contain a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon can be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the coupon Manufacture Offer Code included in the GS1 barcode data elements transmitted to the ICN server against the master coupon table on the ICN Database and send a message via the ICN network to the POS terminal as to whether the paper coupon is valid. The master coupon table, in a non-limiting embodiment, may list coupon identification information, required purchase information, start and expiration dates, and other pertinent information. If the Manufacture Offer Code contained within the GS1 barcode matches a valid Manufacture Offer Code in the master coupon table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the Manufacture Offer Code contained within the GS1 barcode does not match the a valid Manufacture Offer Code in master coupon table in the ICN Database the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. For a paper coupon which is valid and redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information may be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements may include but are not limited to Manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Current Date and Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and which does not contain a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon can be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the correct products were purchased by the consumer as defined in the GS1 barcode 8110 application identifier or as defined in the master coupon table on the ICN Database and send a message via the ICN network to the POS terminal as to whether the required purchases have been met by the consumer. If the purchase requirements have been met by the consumer as compared to the GS1 barcode 8110 application identifier or the ICN master coupon table the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the purchase requirements have not been met by the consumer as compared to the GS1 barcode 8110 application identifier or the ICN master coupon table the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. For a paper coupon which is valid and redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information may be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements may include but are not limited to Manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Current Date and Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a paper coupon with a GS1 barcode and 8110 application identifier which is scanned at the POS terminal and which contains a unique serial number may be validated in real time by the ICN server via the ICN network before the paper coupon can be redeemed. The ICN server may validate the unique serial number contained in the GS1 barcode against the ICN Master Coupon Database which may contain a table of all unique serial numbers assigned to and printed on all paper coupons. If the unique serial number contained within the GS1 barcode of the coupon matches a valid serial number in the master coupon table of the ICN Database and the coupon has not been redeemed previously the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to redeem the paper coupon. If the unique serial number contained within the GS1 barcode of the coupon does not match a valid serial number in the master coupon table of the ICN Database or the coupon has been redeemed previously, the message from the ICN server to the POS terminal may instruct the POS terminal to not redeem the paper coupon. For a paper coupon which is valid and redeemed by the POS terminal data elements from the GS1 barcode and other detailed transaction information may be recorded in the ICN database. Those data elements may include but are not limited to manufacture number from the GS1 barcode, Manufacture offer code from the GS1 barcode, Expiration date from the GS1 barcode, Coupon value from the GS1 barcode, Family code from the GS1 barcode, Coupon type from the GS1 barcode, UPC product codes of required purchases from the GS1 barcode along with transaction detail information including but not limited to Date, Time, Store number, Transaction number, Lane, Cashier number, Customer loyalty card number, and all UPC product codes purchased in the transaction.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, Consumer Package Goods companies who distribute paper coupons, media companies who distribute paper coupons, paper coupon distributors, and paper coupon printers may transmit via the ICN Web service or a batch file in a predefined format all coupon details coded in the GS1 barcode along with individual coupon distribution counts and circulation information which may be written to the ICN Master coupon table in the ICN Database. These coupon details may be used to validate coupons when they are scanned in real time at the POS terminal via the ICN POS Data bridge, the ICN network, the ICN server, and the ICN real time service.","In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, paper coupons which have been redeemed via the ICN network may be cleared electronically and financial settlement may occur via the afore-referenced ICN ACH billing system. When an expiration date of a coupon defined in the ICN master coupon table in the ICN Database is greater than the current system date an automated billing process on the ICN server may be executed. This process may query the ICN Database and identify all paper coupons which match the paper coupon defined in the ICN Master coupon table in which the promotional period has ended and were redeemed during the coupon promotion period. Invoices may be generated which will contain detailed transaction level information of all paper coupon redemptions. The detailed invoices may include but are not limited to the following data elements, Invoice date, Invoice number, Billing address information, quantity of paper coupons redeemed, value of paper coupon redeemed, products purchased with redeemed paper coupons, retailer, date, time, store, lane, and any processing fees. On a predetermined schedule agreed upon by the Manufacture and ICN, for each paper coupon promotion which has concluded and detailed invoices have been created and approved by the Manufacture the ICN ACH billing system may debit the appropriate Manufacture bank account the total face value of all paper coupons included in the invoice along with any processing or handling fees. On a predetermined schedule agreed upon by the Manufacture, the Retailer, and ICN for each paper coupon promotion which has concluded, detailed invoices may be created and approved by the Manufacture. The ICN ACH billing system may credit the appropriate Retailer's bank account the total face value of all paper coupons redeemed at the Retailer's store locations included in the invoice along with any processing or handling fees.","Embodiments of the invention offer improvements over prior scenarios where, for example, the following actions occur: 1) A cashier begins to scan any paper coupons the consumer presents. 2) For each paper coupon scanned GS1 information is captured including:\n\n","3) Captured GS1 Coupon information is sent to ICN in real time. 4) At the end of the cashier's shift, the terminal and till containing cash, debit, credit, food stamps, and paper coupons are settled by the bookkeeper. The POS system can keep track of all the financial transactions including paper coupons. If the system says the cashier scanned, e.g., $10.00 in paper coupons then the bookkeeper validate by counting the value of the paper coupons. Once all totals are in order the terminal, cashier, and till are considered reconciled or settled. 5) At the end of each day ALL paper coupons are bundled together and shipped from the store to the retailer's HQ. 6) At the retailer's HQ the coupons from all stores are counted and bundled together and shipped to the Retailer's Clearing Agent. 7) The clearing agent counts every coupon and bundles then together by CPG and MOC creating a dollar total for each coupon promotion which is billed to the CPG on behalf of the Retailer. 8) The CPG can request a second count which would be done by the CPG's clearing agent. 9) Sooner or later an invoice is sent to the CPG and eventually the Retailer is reimbursed for the value of the coupon plus a handling fee.","According to an advantageous embodiment of the invention, steps 5 to 8 of the above process may be replaced or augmented by the following steps. 1) ICN would capture in real time the paper coupon information when it is scanned. 2) At the end of the cashier's shift, the terminal and till containing cash, debit, credit, food stamps, and paper coupons are settled by the bookkeeper. The POS system keeps track of all the financial transactions including paper coupons. If the system indicates that the cashier scanned, for example, $10.00 in paper coupons then the bookkeeper can validate by counting the value of the paper coupons. Once all totals are in order the terminal, cashier, and till are considered reconciled or settled. 3) All paper coupons reconciled for a particular day may be removed from circulation or destroyed by the bookkeeper or at the Retailer's HQ (TBD). 4) On a daily basis ICN would reconcile the paper coupons with the information captured and process them through the afore-described ACH settlement system, which can be used for settling ICN digital promotions. This would eliminate the need to have the paper coupons physically counted by multiple clearing agents and turn a paper financial transaction taking weeks or months into a electronic transaction which can be settled in days.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0209"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2202","2204","2206","2208","2210","2212","2214","2216","2218","2220","2222","2224"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0210"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["2302","2304","2306","2308","2310","2320","2312","2314","2316","2318","2320","2322","2324","2326","2328","2330","2332","2334"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0211"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2402","2404","2406","2408","2410","2412","2430","2432","2434","2436","2414","2416","2418","2420","2422","2424","2426","2428"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0212"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2506","2510","2506","2501","2504"]},"In an aspect of the invention, the GS1 format may require the actual value of the coupon rather than a value code. For example, a $1.00 coupon value may be represented by an actual value of 100 which may be coded directly in the barcode. The GS1 barcode allows for coding of the Target UPC's within the barcode to better validate the coupon. The GS1 barcode allows for serialization of each coupon, meaning every coupon printed may be given a unique number by the CPG company thus making it unique and potentially eliminating some fraud.","When a paper coupon is scanned using some prior techniques, very little information is captured by the POS scanner, not enough information to allow for the clearing of paper electronically, which meant after the paper coupon was scanned by the cashier it was \u2018money\u2019 and went into the till. At the end of the shift, the cashier would remove the till and give it to the store accountant or bookkeeper who would then settle the till. Settling the till involves counting the value of the paper coupons as well as the cash, debit, and credits and verifying that the totals in the till match the total provided by the POS system. Then the paper coupons would be bundled together and sent on a truck to the retailer's HQ. From there all the coupons from all the stores would be bundled together and sent to the retailer's clearing agent where they would be hand counted and separated by CPG and MOC within each CPG. With the GS1 barcode there is the opportunity to capture enough details of the paper coupon to allow for an electronic clearing of the paper coupon. This would be an advantageous opportunity, after the store bookkeeper settles the paper coupons by cashier the coupon could be removed out of circulation by destroying the coupon and the coupon would be cleared electronically by ICN.","Although the embodiments of  and related descriptions have been described in terms of a paper coupon, other physically durable substrate coupons and\/or incentives are encompassed within these embodiments of the invention. For example, coupons may be formed through plastic or composite materials.","It is believed that embodiments of the invention and the attendant advantages will be understood by the forgoing description. It is also believed that it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form, construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof. It is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes. Moreover, while GS1 barcode 8110 application identifiers are referenced herein, the embodiments described herein also can apply to other barcode identifiers."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other aspects of these teachings are made more evident in the following Detailed Description, when read in conjunction with the attached drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 8A and 8B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 9A and 9B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 12A and 12B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 10"],"b":"11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["22","22","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["23","23","23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["24","24","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 25"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
