---
title: Apparatus to energetically remove a ballistic tolerant window
abstract: An apparatus to remove, energetically, a ballistic tolerant window. The elements include a ballistic tolerant fillet, which extends from the periphery of the ballistic tolerant window. Proximate to a perimeter of the fillet is a plurality of apertures that match up with holes on a tubular frame. The frame and fillet are joined using fastening elements, which are fitted in the holes and apertures. The tubular frame is a polygonal tube having sides useful for mounting the frame to an airframe and for mounting an expanding energetic element with a detonating cord. The energetic element is mounted on the frame adjacent to the fastening elements. When the energetic element is detonated, the explosive force is sufficient to cause the window to separate, energetically, from the tubular frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08230770&OS=08230770&RS=08230770
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08230770
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090922
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","The invention relates generally to an emergency egress system for aircraft windows, and more particularly to an apparatus to energetically remove a ballistic tolerant window.","The performance and survivability of personnel in an aircraft, such as a helicopter, is a major design consideration. While protection of the pilots and other crew members is of primary importance, consideration must also be given to other personnel (e.g., assault troops and litter patients) and mechanical components (e.g., fuel cells) whose survival contributes to successful mission performance. Personnel are susceptible to all direct and secondary injury mechanisms (e.g., spall fragments and other debris) emanating from threat weapon effects, as well as from other causes including explosive removal of windows\/canopies and ejection seat rockets. The separation of windows\/canopies and ejection seats is particularly dangerous as separation utilizes explosives in very close proximity to the crew and other personnel on the aircraft. The separation explosive can produce explosive decompression, sound pressure and impulse, toxic fumes, and smoke, all of which can have an adverse impact on the survivability of the crew and others.","Survivability and effectiveness is of special concern in the case of helicopters such as the AH-1W and AH-1Z USMC helicopters, where a combination of factors aggravates the situation. The crew is located very close to the airframe and the helicopters have been outfitted to have improved ballistic resistance. To effect separation of canopies and fixed windows having ballistic resistance requires greater explosive force, and therefore coincident greater trauma to those onboard when these emergency egress systems are actuated.","In a variation of the invention, the invention is an apparatus to energetically remove a ballistic tolerant window. The elements include a ballistic tolerant fillet, which extends from the periphery of the ballistic tolerant window. Proximate to the perimeter of the fillet is a plurality of apertures or openings that match up with holes in a tubular frame. The frame and fillet are joined using fastening elements, which are fitted in the holes and apertures. The tubular frame may be a polygonal tube, having sides not just curved surfaces, and these sides are useful for mounting the frame to an airframe, and for mounting an energetic element that includes a detonating cord and a flattened tube, where the flattened tube in this application includes any elongate chamber which when pressurized expands, deforming to a higher volume. An example of an expanded flattened tube is one that has expanded to a more elliptical or round tube. Another example of the expanded flattened tube is one that was initially a substantially rectangular tube that expands to a more elliptical or round tube. Generally, the detonating cord is confined within the flattened tube. On ignition, high pressure gases generated by the energetic material (explosive) of the detonating cord are largely confined within the tube, where the flattened tube expands to accommodate the high pressure gases. Fragments, toxic fumes and smoke are confined.","In one aspect of the invention, the energetic element is mounted on the window's tubular frame adjacent to the fastening elements, and when the energetic element is detonated, the explosive force is sufficient to cause the window to separate, energetically, from the tubular frame.","There are several aspects of the invention that make it particularly well suited for USMC helicopters such as the AH-1W and AH-1Z. A first aspect is that the high pressure gases are largely confined in the energetic element, thereby reducing toxic fumes and smoke. The expansion reduces the sound pressure and impulse.","A second aspect is that the force is directed outward, away from the crew.","A third aspect is that the invention does not require that any ballistic tolerant component of the invention break in order for the window to separate from the tubular frame. The expansion caused by the explosive forces are directed at components of the ballistic tolerant window that are not protected by ballistic transparencies and the like. The expansion attacks the fastening elements and the frame of the window, which are more vulnerable than the window proper. This strategy enables the amount of charge to be appropriately lowered.","An apparatus  to remove, energetically, a ballistic tolerant window. Several exemplary embodiments of the apparatus  are shown and described in the attached drawings. Referring to  and , the apparatuses ,  may be located on a right side  of a helicopter substantially adjacent a rear, right-side window , which is behind a front right-side window . Similarly, and referring to , the apparatuses ,  may be located on a left side  of a helicopter substantially adjacent a front, left-side window . Referring to , the apparatuses ,  may be located substantially adjacent the rear, right-side window  as well as located substantially adjacent the front, left-side window . Accordingly, the apparatuses ,  on the right side of the helicopter  are off-set from the apparatuses ,  on the left side of the helicopter  to permit efficient and safe exit from the helicopter .","Referring to , the apparatus  includes a ballistic tolerant fillet  extending substantially along the periphery  of the ballistic tolerant window . The fillet functions, in part, as a binding strip for mounting the window to a tubular frame , and also serves to provide additional protection to the crew and aircraft. The fillet includes a pre-cured laminate having a front-side sheet , a back-side sheet , and a perimeter  with a plurality of apertures proximate to the perimeter , where an aperture can receive a first fastening element . The sheets may be bonded with an adhesive. An ballistic tolerant sheet is generally composed of a reinforced fiberglass cloth and a thermosetting acrylic resin. The front-side sheet  of the fillet  has a first overlapping portion  that is, in an exemplary embodiment, adhesively bonded to a front-side  of the ballistic tolerant window , and the back-side sheet  has a second overlapping portion  that is bonded to a back-side  of the ballistic tolerant window. In , the back-side sheet  has an angled medial portion . The front-side sheet  and the back-side sheet  are adhesively laminated out-board of the periphery of the window. The lamination triangulates the sheets with the window, and the triangulation and the reinforced fiberglass cloth produces a substantially rigid ballistic fillet.","The apparatus  includes a tubular frame  to which is mounted the ballistic tolerant fillet . The tubular frame  is substantially a polygonal tube  having a plurality of holes. The illustrated cross-section of the tube  has a first side  with a portion , which nominally has a hole for attaching a second fastening element  to the first fastening element , a second side  that provides structural strength to the tubular frame, a third side  that is substantially parallel to the first side  and provides structural strength, and a fourth side  that is substantially parallel to the second side  and provides structural strength.","The apparatus  includes a mounting assembly for fastening the tubular frame  to the ballistic tolerant fillet . The assembly includes a plurality of a set of fastening elements, where the plurality of the set of fastening elements connects the first side of the polygonal tube to the fillet. An example of a set of fastening elements are a screw  and an expanding threaded nut-like rivet . The plurality of the set includes all the fastening elements, such as screws  and nut-like rivets , used to attach the tubular frame to the fillet.","The apparatus includes an energetic element , for example an expanding shielded mild detonating cord, that extends substantially the perimeter of the fillet, where the expanding shielded energetic element  is adjacent to the plurality of the set of fastening elements and the tubular frame. In the illustrated version, the expanding shielded energetic element  is comprised of a detonating cord , a flattened tube  and a support material . The support material  is generally a rubbery material, for example, silicone rubber. The support material  provides some insulation against accidental detonation due to shock. When the expanding shielded energetic element  is detonated, the flatten tube  expands, generating forces on the tubular frame and the set of fastening elements. The forces are sufficient to cause the ballistic tolerant window  to separate, energetically, from the tubular frame .","Referring to , the illustrated apparatus has a charge holder  that may be attached to a side of the tubular frame. In the illustrated version, the charge holder  contains the expanding shielded energetic element , and is attached to the fourth side with fastening elements consisting of a screw \u2032 and an expanding threaded nut-like rivet \u2032. In both  and , the expanding shielded energetic element  is on a fifth side  of the polygonal tube , and angled such that when it detonates the fastening elements and tube will experience both tensile and shear forces. The expansion attacks the fastening elements and the frame of the window, which are more vulnerable than the window proper. This strategy enables the amount of charge to be appropriately lowered.","Generally, the charge material for the cord is selected from the group that includes RDX, PETN, TNT, HMX, PBXN-5, and HNS. RDX is cyclo-trimethylenetrinitramine; PETN is pentaerythritol tetranitrate; TNT is trinitrotoluene; HMX is cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine; PBXN-5 is composed substantially of cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine and a binder; and HNS is hexanitrostilbene. The tube material is selected from the group that includes 17-7 PH Steel, Haynes 25 Steel, Rene 41 Steel, A-286 Steel, 304 Stainless Steel, 304 N Stainless Steel, 347 Stainless Steel, 2024-T3, aluminum, and 2024-TO Aluminum. For marine environments HNS and stainless steel are generally selected. The expanding energetic element  having a mild detonating cord generally has a division 1.4 classification.","Referring to , which is a frontal view of an embodiment of the ballistic window , the fillet  and the tubular frame . An inboard portion of the fillet  overlaps the front-side  of the ballistic tolerant window . The inboard portion has previously been identified as the first overlapping portion . The fillet extends around the periphery of the window, and is attached to the frame with a plurality of fastening elements . In an exemplary embodiment, only three fastening elements are specifically numbered, but as is evident there are many more. The fastening elements  are visible on the front-side  of the fillet, proximate to the perimeter . The expanding energetic element  runs the length of the perimeter, adjacent to and inboard to the fastening elements.","Referring to  is an enlarged frontal view of a portion of the exemplary embodiment illustrated in . Several of the fastening elements  are shown to be flush with and extending through the front-side sheet  of the laminated portion of the fillet. The flattened tube  and the detonating cord  of the energetic element  are illustrated somewhat diagrammatically to illustrate where they are relative to the fastening elements. The energetic element  is located proximate to the fastening elements, and outside of the window , on the back-side of the fillet and near or on the front side to the tubular frame. In this location, the expansion caused by the explosive forces are directed at components of the ballistic tolerant window that are not protected by ballistic transparencies and the like. The expansion attacks the fastening elements and the frame of the window, which are more vulnerable than the window proper. The location enables the amount of charge to be appropriately lowered, and the tubular frame and the tube of the energetic element shields the crew from the detonating cord .","Referring to  is a cross-sectional side view of an alternate exemplary embodiment of the invented apparatus having a reinforcing cap . The expanding energetic element  has a detonating cord  that is supported by a rubbery material  in a flattened tube , and the flattened tube  is proximate to the fastening elements. The reinforcing cap  spans the first side  of the polygonal tube . The first side  has an inboard portion and an outboard portion . The reinforcing cap  above the inboard portion contains the expanding energetic element , and the outboard portion has an opening (not shown) that enables the fillet to be connected to the underlying first side  of the polygonal tube . As with the other exemplary embodiments, the expanding energetic element  is flush with the back-side sheet  of the pre-cured laminate. The back-side sheet  has a second overlapping portion  adhered to the backside  of the window , and an adjacent portion  that is that adhered to the periphery  of the window . The front-side sheet  of the fillet  has a first overlapping portion  that is adhesively bonded to a front-side  of the ballistic tolerant window . The reinforcing cap  adds an additional layer of protection for the crew. The reinforcing cap  may be fabricated out of a metal such as aluminum and the like, or an engineering plastic such as polyetheretherketone and the like, or a combination thereof.","Finally, any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations (for example, by using the term \u201cabout\u201d) that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.","It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific exemplary embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof, and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention, which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing invention will become readily apparent by referring to the following detailed description and the appended drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
