---
title: System and method for augmenting digital media with custom content
abstract: A system and method for enhancing the number of page views of a web site or other digitally distributed interactive medium. A custom content hosting service allows a publisher to augment the contents of its own site with additional pages. The custom content hosting service provides content based on a topic supplied by the publisher, extracting data from a database of generic content. Generic content may include, for example, news feeds and news archives; news and archive photographs; links to blogs and other sites; etc. The publisher may customize the look and feel of the hosted pages to allow seamless integration into its own site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595241&OS=08595241&RS=08595241
owner: Newscred, Inc.
number: 08595241
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090612
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/074,647, filed Jun. 22, 2008. This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/260,720, filed Oct. 27, 2005; Ser. No. 60\/821,566, filed Aug. 5, 2006; Ser. No. 11\/463,061, filed Aug. 8, 2006; Ser. No. 11\/531,306, filed Sep. 13, 2006; PCT\/US2006\/060149, filed Oct. 23, 2006; Ser. No. 11\/833,442, filed Aug. 3, 2007; Ser. No. 11\/848,134, filed Aug. 30, 2007; and Ser. No. 12\/027,700, filed Feb. 7, 2008; all of which are incorporated herein by reference.","This invention relates to digitally distributed interactive media, and more specifically to the automatic generation of additional content to enhance existing web pages and other digitally distributed interactive media.","The economic success of digitally distributed interactive media depends on the availability of attractive content to maximize the number of page views. In general, increasing page views maximizes user exposure to a site and therefore helps build a user base. Moreover, many commercial sites generate revenue through the placement of advertising on a per-view basis, i.e., the advertising revenue depends on the number of times a page containing advertisements is viewed. In the following discussion, the term \u201ccontent\u201d is used to generally indicate any kind of information that a user may perceive sensorially, including for example text, diagrams, photographs, sound, animations, video, interactive games, three-dimensional virtual reality environments, and similar information. The term \u201cpage\u201d refers to content represented by a data structure suitable for digital storage and transmission, and for presentation to a user through a sensorial medium, such as the video display of a computer connected to the internet. A common example is a web page encoded in a language such as HTML. The term \u201csite\u201d refers to a collection of pages which a user may navigate by tools such as browsing or searching. A common example is a web site including web pages. While the following discussion will focus on the specific example of internet web sites, it is understood that the same concepts may be applied to other media.","The number of pages viewed by users can be increased through several measures. For example, one may increase the number of pages by adding new content to the site. Users already visiting the site will naturally be captured by the new content, for example through links on pages they are currently browsing. Moreover, more content brings in more traffic from search engines. Alternatively, one may add additional content to existing pages, for example in the form of sidebars covering topics related to the page currently being browsed. The additional content improves the user experience and helps retain users.","As an alternative to adding entirely new content, one may create additional links between existing pages. This facilitates the user's exploration of the site. For example, if a user has an interest in a topic that is related to the page currently being viewed, a direct link to another page covering that topic obviates the need for using an external search engine or other source of information. This approach \u201cengineers\u201d a user experience that encourages browsing and user retention. A similar result may be obtained by adding a \u201csearch box\u201d that allows the user to search for a particular topic within the site rather than on the entire web. In both cases, user traffic may be contained within the publisher's site. Moreover, traffic may be redirected toward pages that would otherwise be rarely visited, and additional advertisement revenue may be generated by reviving such \u201cdormant\u201d content.","One problem with all of the above measures to increase page views is that they generally involve a substantial cost. Additional content, whether it is embedded within an existing page or formatted as a separate page, must be generated in-house or acquired from third parties. Moreover, content must be filtered and arranged in a way that is attractive to the users of the site. For example, the user of a site dedicated to politics will naturally be interested in political news and related information, arranged in relation to the content of the page that he or she is currently viewing. Finally, creating a network of links between pages involving related content also entails costs.","Proposed solutions to these problems have inherent shortcomings. For example, news aggregation tools may be used to build customized content centered around a given topic. However such tools require close integration with a publisher's own site, and also must be hosted within the site. On the other hand, there are self-service publishing tools that allow a publisher to easily construct a customized site. Self-service tools may also include a hosting service. However such tools do not provide facilities to automatically generate customized content.","Accordingly, there is a need for enhancing the content of web pages and other digitally distributed interactive media without the cost and complexity of measures currently used to maximize page views.","Drawings are only diagrammatic and not to scale. Corresponding elements in different drawings are indicated by the same numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","120","130","110","110"]},"In the example of , a publisher page  may contain a news article  about a certain event. Publisher page  may also contain remote modules  and , which may link to hosted pages  as discussed below. For example, remote module  may include a list of topics related to news article , such as people or places mentioned in the news article . Remote module  may instead represent a \u201csearch box\u201d that allows the user to search within a set of pages. Of course such combination of modules is only exemplary and not limiting.","Hosted pages  may be configured by the publisher and \u201cbranded\u201d by the hosting service for the publisher. For example, the publisher may provide to the hosting service a display specification which the hosting service may use to precisely match the appearance of the hosted pages to that of the publisher pages. An example of display specification is a \u201ccascading style sheet,\u201d or CSS, which allows the hosting service to add visual effects such as colors and fonts to web pages in a modular fashion. A publisher may simply upload a CSS to the hosting service's site, and the hosting service will include that CSS in all hosted pages .","A hosted page  may be configured as one or more modules that display custom content. In the example shown in , hosted page  includes modules , ,  and . Module  includes a link to another hosted page, whereas module  links back to the publisher pages . This tends to retain users within the publisher's site. Module  links to an external page , to augment the site's content by access to external resources. Of course such combination of modules is only exemplary and not limiting.","Although hosted pages  may be hosted directly by the hosting service, they may be accessed through a sub-domain within the publisher's domain name, such as \u201ctopics.publisher.com.\u201d Alternatively, the hosted pages  may be accessed through a sub-domain within the hosting service's domain name, such as \u201cpublisher.hosting.com\u201d or \u201chosting.com\/publisher.\u201d A skilled person may readily envision other naming conventions.","External pages  may be hosted by third-party sites which may or may not be related to the publisher's business. These sites may link to either the publisher pages or the hosted pages. For example, external pages  may represent independently operated blogs or news-related sites which relate to the main news article . In the example of , external pages  may contain modules  and  which display content obtained from the hosting service, and which link back to the hosted pages and the publisher pages, respectively. Such \u201creturn links\u201d to the publisher's content may also assist in retaining users and increasing traffic within the publisher's site. Of course such combination of modules is only exemplary and not limiting.","The modules contained within pages ,  and  may be correspondingly classified into three groups according to which page they are integrated into. Publisher modules, such as modules  and , may be configured by the publisher and incorporated into publisher pages. For example, publisher modules may be small, self-contained code fragments that a publisher may physically embed into a publisher page without modification. Hosting service modules, such as modules , ,  and , may be automatically generated by the hosting service, but may also be selected and configured by the publisher. Hosting service modules may constitute the entire content of a hosted page . Shareable modules, such as modules  and , may be incorporated into third-party sites. Similarly to publisher modules, shareable modules may be small, self-contained code fragments. All of the above modules may preferentially link to publisher pages  and hosted pages , to further help retain users, however they may also link to third-party sites.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["201","230","240","250","260"]},"Sub-system  may perform content acquisition and analysis. This sub-system may retrieve for example a web page , and extract the body text and images from it. Sub-system  may obtain data inputs from web pages  and other content sources . The system may locate web pages , for example, through notification by RSS feeds, or by \u201cspidering\u201d a site. A module also may automatically generate a notification of the page the module is embedded into. When a module is placed on a page, it may determine an identifier of the page, such as an URL, when the code for the module is first executed. The module may then pass the URL on to the hosting service. The sub-system  may then access the page and \u201cscrape\u201d its contents. Web pages  may be identified, for example, as containing news-related content. The system may also receive inputs from other content sources , for example commercial news provides such as Reuters, the Associated Press, or Getty, or by querying a video search service. Content from sources  may be provided through special feeds or dedicated application programming interfaces (APIs).","Sub-system  may implement a content database. The text analyzed by sub-system  may be represented in a form that allows for rapid retrieval based on calculated similarity to other content and on calculated relevance to pre-defined topics. A unique source identifier may be stored with each content item to allow for filtering. Content database  thus provides a collection of generic, pre-indexed content that may be quickly filtered and sorted to build custom pages for inclusion into a publisher's site.","Sub-system  may perform source filtering and content ranking. A \u201csource\u201d may be, for example, a specific organization or publication, a blog site, an individual journalist, or a specific RSS feed. Sources may be defined manually as part of content acquisition. Each source is given a unique identifier and stored in the database. For example, all articles from a specific site associated with a given publication may be assigned to the source identifier for that publication.","When performing a query against the content database, source filtering may determine what sources will be used in constructing the results, and source ranking may determine the relative weight of those sources and the order in which they will be presented to the user. This feature may allow modules to preferentially point to pages that maximize the likelihood of user retention and therefore revenue for the publisher. In addition, content may be retrieved from the content database and filtered using either a \u201cwhite list\u201d of sources to include, or a \u201cblack list\u201d of sources to exclude.","Examples of source filters include the following. In one embodiment, only content from the publisher is retrieved. Alternatively, in addition to content from the publisher, content from a set of affiliated sources which are part of the same organization may also be retrieved. As a last example, in addition to content from the publisher, content from a set of sources relevant to an area of interest may be retrieved. For example, the publisher of a site that carries news on a specific industry such as electronic goods might select specific blogs and sources relevant to that industry. The selection may be made by humans or by automated filters. Of course the above examples are only illustrative, and a skilled person may readily envision other filtering algorithms.","In addition to source filtering, sub-system  may also implement ranking of sources. For example, even where the filtering algorithm allows the selection of content from all sources, or a selection of sources, publisher pages  may be given a higher ranking so that the publisher content may be displayed at the top of the list presented to the user.","Sub-system  may implement an application programming interface (API) that may allow for queries to be constructed and transmitted over the internet using a standard set of protocols. Examples of such protocols include, without limitation, Representational State Transfer (REST), Remote Procedure Call (RPC) and SOAP. When constructing a query, a source filtering and\/or ranking criterion may also be applied.","The API  may be used to build modules , which in turn may be integrated into pages . Pages  may be publisher pages , hosted pages , or external pages . Module  may rely upon some predefined configuration options  to determine its content, or may automatically determine its content based on the page itself, as discussed more fully below. Once the content-building criteria are defined, a module may submit a set of appropriate queries to the API , and retrieve any necessary data. For example, the publisher may provide configuration options  that will automatically select generic headline news from a preselected set of sources. When the page  is accessed, the module is automatically executed and generates a query that is transmitted to the API . The API  returns the desired content to module , which displays the content within page  as if it were part of the page. Instead of or in addition to selecting generic headline news, configuration options  may cause module  to generate a query for specific content, for example content related to the page that module  is embedded into. The generation of the appropriate query may be based on manual input (e.g., a set of keywords may be associated with each page) and\/or by automatic analysis of the page.","Configuration options  may include any configuration data that may be used to define the appearance and functionality of a module . Configuration data may include, for example, display specifications (color, branding, etc.); content specifications (topic, number of items to display, date range, etc.); source specifications (white lists and black lists, source ranking, etc.). These are passed to the module by the page containing the module. Some of the configuration options  may coexist with the publisher pages, others may be stored by the hosting service.","Modules residing on the publisher site may be customized and incorporated using standard protocols just as javascript or HTML frames, in a manner similar to how advertisements might be placed on a conventional web page. Such customization and integration may not necessarily require significant expertise to use the API, and may therefore be fully automated, making the entire solution self-served, allowing the addition of inventory without the need to configure new pages hosted by the publisher. If however the hosted pages are to appear as a subdomain of the publisher's site (e.g. topics.publisher.com instead of publisher.hosting.com or hosting.com\/publisher), redirecting requests for that domain may involve an additional step by the publisher.","In certain embodiments of the invention, examples of modules may include, without limitation, the following:\n\n","The terms \u201crelated to\u201d and \u201cabout\u201d a topic may mean, without limitation, any of the following:\n\n","In the example of , a module's content may be defined by configuration options . However a module  may be embedded in a page  and its content may be automatically related to the content on the page. This is especially advantageous when a module is embedded within a publisher page or an external page. For example, a publisher may install on all publisher pages a generic module that pulls in \u201crelated topics.\u201d To determine what is \u201crelated,\u201d the content of the web page, excluding the module, may be \u201cscraped\u201d and analyzed by the content acquisition and analysis module . Alternatively, only a sufficient fraction of a page may be analyzed to extract enough information and perform a query for related content. To accommodate this type of use, the module may request content from the API  by passing an identifier of the containing page , for example the URL of the page. In this case the module  may never require any information about the page  in order to generate a query to request content from the API .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"310"},"At step , URL-A may be checked for in the content database, to determine whether it has already been processed. At step , a test may be performed on whether URL-A has been found in the content database. If URL-A is found in the database, the method may return related content immediately by proceeding to step . If URL-A is not found in the database, the method may proceed to step .","At step , the method may perform another test on whether to wait until processing is complete to return a result, or whether to return a temporary result immediately and process URL-A in preparation for future requests for related content. The decision may be based, for example, on module preferences; publisher-specific priorities; or a decision made by the hosting service to defer or immediately process such requests. If no wait is selected, at step , the method may return temporary results, which may be based on a default parameter provided as part of the module request, or may be top news or some other hosting-service-defined default means of retrieving content. If instead a wait is determined at step , the method may proceed to step .","At step , the method may perform content acquisition and analysis, as discussed in reference to element  in . At step , the method may store the acquired content in the content database, as discussed in reference to element  in .","At step , the method may determine whether the module is waiting for a response, as previously determined in step . If the module is not waiting, the method may directly terminate at step . If the module is waiting, the method may proceed to step , and determine related content and return results. There are numerous methods for returning related content, depending upon the module type, as discussed previously in reference to the various types of modules disclosed. The method may then terminate at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"410"},"At step , a set of hosted pages may be defined. Pages may be created based on specific topics, or news stories, or whatever theme may be convenient or desirable. As an example, the publisher of a sports-related site may create a page dedicated to each sports team. The publisher of a politics-related site may set up a page for each candidate to a certain election. Once set up, hosted pages may have their own static address, such as an URL, so that they may be bookmarked by users. Also, static pages may be captured by a search engine and included within a list of search results presented to users, which further increases traffic toward the publisher's site. However, the content of each page need not be static, but may evolve, if for example the page includes a \u201clatest news\u201d module that is continuously, automatically updated to include new content.","At step , the appearance of the hosted pages may be customized, and modules may be selected and configured. Modules may include any of the module types described above, such as latest news, photos, related blog posts, etc. At this time the appearance of the hosted pages may be customized, for example by uploading a CSS. The specific selection, customization and arrangement of modules may define the page as perceived by the users, and may be updated periodically, when for example the publisher's site is redesigned.","At step , modules may be selected and customized for use in publisher pages. The procedure may be the same as for the selection and customization of modules for hosted pages, or it may be modified to better suit the different needs of publisher pages. Also at step , code may be obtained for embedding into such publisher pages. Examples of code that may be embedded into a page includes HTML and Javascript.","At step , modules may be inserted into publisher pages by known techniques. The same procedure described with respect to publisher pages in steps  and  may be applied to external pages, so that modules may be provided to third parties for inclusions in their own pages. This allows traffic from those third-party sites to be redirected to the publisher's site, further increasing revenue.","It is apparent that the procedure described in  may be entirely performed on the publisher's side, similarly to a self-served publishing tool. The creation of a domain, the creation of hosted pages, and the selection and customization of modules may be implemented, for example, by a graphical user interface, so that all the publisher of a site has to do is embed small modules into his or her own pages.","While the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments, it will be appreciated that such embodiments are not limiting. Accordingly, numerous alternatives, modifications, and variations are possible within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the appended drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
