---
title: Flagged messages in an automatic integrated unified messaging escalation system
abstract: An automatic message escalation system includes attaching an acknowledgement flag to a message after it is received in the message mailbox of an identified message recipient. The status of the acknowledgement flag indicates whether or not the message has been retrieved. After a given or specified period of time, the acknowledgement flag is checked to see if the message was retrieved. If the message was retrieved, the message will not be escalated. If the message was not retrieved, the message will be sent to the next message recipient on an escalation list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08428229&OS=08428229&RS=08428229
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08428229
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091020
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The disclosed technology relates generally to message routing and more particularly to automatic escalation in a unified messaging platform environment.","Unified messaging is the integration of different forms of communication (e.g., email, voicemail, short message service (SMS), fax, etc.) into a single, unified message store (e.g., a unified messaging platform) accessible from a variety of user devices.","Call centers are an exemplary application of unified messaging. Call centers are centralized offices used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting large volumes of requests by telephone or other communication devices. Call centers are used to receive incoming calls to an organization (e.g., a company, corporation, business unit, etc.). For example, call centers may be used as a customer service center staffed by multiple customer service representatives (CSRs). A customer service representative is also equivalently referred to as an employee herein. Each representative may be responsible for one or more customer accounts and\/or types of customer issues (e.g., account termination, maintenance, billing disputes, etc.).","However, a call center is generally associated with a single telephone number or a limited number of telephone numbers. That is, an organization may have a single customer service number (e.g., 1-800-CUSTOMR) that all customers call, regardless of the reason for calling. Incoming calls are then routed based on operator routing, hierarchical customer service representative response, automated speech recognition systems, or the like. If a particular customer service representative responsible for the incoming call is unavailable, the customer may be invited to leave a message in the form of a voicemail.","In a unified messaging platform environment, other communications methods, such as email and facsimiles, may also be used to contact customer service representatives. In call centers using a single or limited incoming telephone numbers, these emails and facsimiles may be deposited along with the voicemails as described above. Customers who have left messages for a particular customer service representative may experience poor quality of service when the customer service representative is unavailable for a significant period or if the customer's needs are urgent. That is, the customer may not receive a timely response to their message because the message has not been received by any customer service representative.","The automatic message escalation system of the disclosed technology includes attaching an acknowledgement flag to a message after it is received in the message mailbox of an identified message recipient. The status of the acknowledgement flag indicates whether or not the message has been retrieved. After a given or specified period of time, the acknowledgement flag is checked to see if the message was retrieved. If the message was retrieved, the message will not be escalated. If the message was not retrieved, one or more escalation notification messages will be sent to other CSR recipients based on configured escalation schedules and recipient sets. The configured notification schedule and escalation data can have termination parameters. The message may be maintained in the mailbox of the original recipient, and various authorized CSR recipients may be able to access the message and change the status information of a message, depending on the escalation policies and the status of the acknowledgement flag. The escalation data for each recipient can span various levels of the organization.","After the message is escalated, the escalation system will continue to perform status checks on the message until the acknowledgement flag is marked as retrieved or the escalation parameters have reached the highest contact on the hierarchy model. The acknowledgement flag and other status information about a received message can be changed by authorized CSRs.","Additionally, if an escalation recipient opens a message and decides they were the unintended recipient of that message or cannot handle the message properly, the recipient may reset the acknowledgement flag. In this case, the system will continue to perform status checks on the message and escalate the message as defined by the escalation parameters. A CSR recipient of an original message from a customer can receive one or more initial notification messages, after the unified messaging platform deposits a customer message into his\/her mailbox.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","104","104","106"],"i":["a","b"]},"Call center  includes one or more customer service representatives , , . . . , N. In at least one embodiment, customers -N are connected to, and\/or are in communication with call center  and one or more customer service representatives -N using communication network  and\/or communication network .","Customer service representatives (CSRs) -N are in communication with UM platform , which includes UM interface , UM controller , and\/or UM database . Communication between UM interface  and customer service representatives -N may be controlled by a UM controller . UM controller  and\/or UM interface  may also control and\/or be in communication with UM database . As described herein, \u201cin communication with\u201d describes connection between components (e.g., customers -N, UM interface , customer service representatives -N, UM controller , UM database , etc.) that can transmit signals and\/or information to each other using any appropriate protocol and combination of wired and\/or wireless communication techniques (e.g., VOIP, wired, IP, etc.). In at least one embodiment, such communication may be through and\/or with a telephone and\/or packet network, as is known. For example, in some embodiments, CSRs -N may communicate with (e.g., access) the UM platform  and their messages using telephone user interface (TUI) and\/or one or more computer programs. Originators of voice or video calls that are not answered by any customer service representative -N may choose to leave messages into the UM database  of the UM platform , as mediated by the UM interface  and UM controller . Other message types (for example, e-mail and facsimile messages) that may be addressed to the common customer service representatives -N may also be deposited into the UM database  as managed by the UM controller  and\/or UM interface .","Call center  and\/or UM platform  may be constructed using any appropriate combination of physical components and special-purpose computers configured to carry out the specific functions described below. Additionally, various components of UM platform  may be combined and\/or may have functionality split over various components. For example, UM interface  may include a database configured as UM database  and a controller configured as UM controller . In another example, UM controller  may be implemented in a program executed at a remote server that controls and routes calls and messages to UM interface  and\/or customer service representatives -N.","Customers -N are users of the call center  using any appropriate communications device (e.g., telecommunications device, telephone, mobile telephone, email-capable device, facsimile machine, etc.) to communicate with call center  and\/or customer service representatives -N. UM platform  is based on a unified messaging system. As such, UM platform  supports voice, email, and facsimile message types in a unified fashion. For example, subscribers to (e.g., users of) UM platform , such as customer service representatives -N of call center , may receive and deposit messages of any type in an associated mailbox or associate mailboxes of the UM platform . In this way, UM platform  is accessed via one or more networks (e.g., telephone, packet, etc.) to receive and handle messages based on incoming data. The UM platform may also initiate transmission of messages such as'reminder messages. The designation N is used only to indicate multiplicity of numbers, and the number of customers -N may be different than the number of customer service representatives -N.","UM interface  is any appropriate server or server-like device or devices that can receive information from customers -N and can send information to and receive information from customer service representatives -N and customers -N. That is, UM interface  coordinates (e.g., receives and\/or stores) communications from customers -N who wish to access the call center  and customer service representatives -N. In at least one embodiment, UM interface  includes a telephone user interface (TUI) program. In another embodiment, UM interface  may also include the communication capability to offer its users support for multimedia communication sessions to store video messages. UM interface  may be implemented as a computer, such as the computer  discussed below with respect to . That is, UM interface  may include and\/or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to ,  and . As described above, UM interface  may be coupled to or include UM controller  and\/or UM database .","Customer service representatives -N are local and\/or remotely connected representatives of an organization (e.g., customer care representatives, call center support staff, etc.) using any appropriate communications device (e.g., telecommunications device, computer with communication software\/firmware, telephone, mobile telephone, email-capable device, facsimile machine, etc.) to communicate with call center  and\/or customers -N.","UM controller  is any appropriate module that can send information to and receive information from UM interface , customers -N, and customer service representatives -N. That is, UM controller  coordinates communications between UM interface  and customer service representatives -N in accordance with the methods described herein. In at least one embodiment, UM interface  may implement an application programming interface (API). In another embodiment, UM controller  may handle processing of messages such as recorded voice and\/or vide calls, e-mails and facsimiles. In an alternative embodiment, UM controller  is a remote web server or similar device capable of performing the functions described below. In either embodiment, UM controller  may be implemented as a computer, such as the computer  discussed below with respect to . That is, UM controller  may include and\/or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to ,  and .","UM database  is any appropriate database, such as the database described below with respect to and . In at least one embodiment, UM database  is a database that can contain data to correlate information (e.g., invoice number, telephone number, trouble ticket, etc.) related to customers -N with an associated customer service representative -N. The database  described below with respect to and is an example of the correlations and\/or associations that may be used to implement the methods described below with respect to ,  and . Portions of database  may be associated with or related to or used with one or more address books (not shown) of call center .","Communications to and\/from UM platform  and customer service representatives -N and customers -N may be through the analog communication network  (e.g., one or more telephone networks) and\/or packet communication network  (e.g., a private local area network, a private wide area network and\/or the public network known as the Internet). The interface components of UM platform  to the analog communication network  and packet communication network  are not shown, but may be implemented as part of UM interface  in at least one embodiment. In at least one embodiment, email messages and multimedia (e.g., voice and\/or data) can be transmitted through the packet communication network , and facsimile messages can be transmitted through the analog communication network  and\/or packet communication network . Various communications components and network connections are not shown in , and are apparent to persons skilled in the art. Communication network  and communication network  may be implemented using any past, present and future protocols and such technologies would not be excluded from the scope of this present disclosure. For example, communication network  may be implemented using one or more protocols such as GSM, wimax, 802.11a, 802.11g, 802.11n, 802.3 Ethernet, leased lines, and other technologies. Communication network  and communication network  may each consist of one or more networks. For example, communication network  may include a GSM network for wireless communications to and from one or more customers -N, one or more wired connections to one or more customers -N, and have one or more wired connections to call center  and the customer service representatives -N. Detailed components, such as possible additional networks and components associated with call center  and customers -N are not shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"200"},"Computer  contains devices that form a controller including a processor  that controls the overall operation of the computer  by executing computer program instructions, which define such operation. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device  (e.g., magnetic disk, database, etc.) and loaded into memory  when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus, applications for performing the herein-described method steps, such as those described below with respect to method  are defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory  and\/or storage  and controlled by the processor  executing the computer program instructions. The computer  may also include one or more network interfaces  for communicating with other devices via a network. The computer  also includes input\/output devices  that enable operator interaction with the computer . Computer  and\/or processor  may include one or more central processing units, read only memory (ROM) devices and\/or random access memory (RAM) devices. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer could contain other components as well, and that the computer of  is a high level representation of some of the components of such a computer for illustrative purposes.","According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, instructions of a program (e.g., controller software) may be read into memory , such as from a ROM device to a RAM device or from a LAN adapter to a RAM device. Execution of sequences of the instructions in the program may cause the computer  to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or integrated circuits may be used in place of, or in combination with, software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present disclosure. Thus, embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware, firmware, and\/or software. The memory  may store the software for the computer , which may be adapted to execute the software program and thereby operate in accordance with the present disclosure and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail below. However, it would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure as described herein could be implemented in many different ways using a wide range of programming techniques as well as general purpose hardware sub-systems or dedicated controllers.","Such programs may be stored in a compressed, uncompiled, and\/or encrypted format. The programs furthermore may include program elements that may be generally useful, such as an operating system, a database management system, and device drivers for allowing the portable communication device to interface with peripheral devices and other equipment\/components. Appropriate general purpose program elements are known to those skilled in the art, and need not be described in detail herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b ","a","b","c ","d","a","c ","a"],"b":["3","300","300","114","300","302","302","302","302","302","304","104","306","308","300","300","102"]},"Database  may be collection of data that is stored in a computer (e.g., computer  of ) wherein a database management system (DBMS) may consult the database  to answer queries (e.g., to select data). Data retrieved in answer to queries become information that can be used to make decisions, may precipitate actions, or may be displayed to a customer service representative -N.","For simplicity, database  is depicted and described in the embodiment of and as a relational database. In the same or alternative embodiments, all or part of database  may configured according to another database model such as a hierarchical model, a table model, a network model, an object model, an associative model, etc.","Data shown in and for database  can be arranged and represented in any suitable fashion. For example, organization chart  may be represented graphically as a tree, but may be implemented as a table . For example, in a tabular implementation each node of the shown organization chart  tree may represent a customer service representative and be implemented by a row, where a column of that row may be used to refer to another customer service representative , where customer service representative would be represented by a tree node above (e.g., a supervisor or other customer service representative ). As an example, customer service representative with a CSR ID  (equivalently ,  and ) value of 1 may be a superior of a customer service representative with a CSR ID  (, , ) value of 4, as shown in the tree representation of the organization chart . Tables -may be data tables as is known in the use of databases. It is understood that any number of tables and\/or relational charts may be used to store and correlate data. Similarly, though depicted as tables, tables -are a visual representation of a database relation and any appropriate implementation of data storage and correlation may be used. As such, tables -, especially those related to organizational chart , may be an address book or a portion of an address book, and may be used by customer service representatives -N. Such address books may be address books of the call center , address books of external organizations (e.g., address books associated with customers -N, etc.), or any combination thereof. Other data that is not shown may be stored in conjunction with the data shown in and . The exemplary data that is shown in is used to identify a first customer service representative (among the customer service representatives -N), where the customer service representative is responsible for handling the incoming message.","Tables -may be a set of data elements organized using rows and columns which may be accessed via the DBMS (e.g., as in a look-up table). The columns may be identified by title (e.g., \u201cIncoming Source Information\u201d and \u201cTransaction ID\u201d) or another identifier. The rows may be identified by the values (e.g., \u201c973-555-1111\u201d, \u201c1\u201d, \u201c3\u201d hours, etc.) appearing in a particular column. In some embodiments rows may also have titles or other identifiers.","The list of incoming source information  may include data values associated with incoming messages to UM call center , such as those messages from customers -N. That is, incoming source information  may be a list of telephone numbers and\/or email addresses of users who have previously contacted UM call center  or have some other prior association with UM call center . Accordingly, when UM call center  receives a call from a particular known source, UM database  may be accessed to determine any appropriate associations (e.g., associations of a received message, based on its originator, with a particular customer service representative ID (CRS ID ), association of particular customer service representatives -N using organizational chart , address book information, etc.).","As discussed similarly in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/582,263, tables -may include other appropriate information such as information about each customer service representative -N. Table can be used to identify a specific customer service representative using the incoming source information of an arrived message and the CSR ID  of that customer service representative . For example, if a voice message is from a caller at number 973-555-3333, customer service representative with CSR ID  with a value of 3 can be initially associated with that arrived message. As another example, UM platform  can associate an arrived email from particular_originator_1@hype1-abc-corp.com with a UM platform  subscriber customer service representative with a CSR ID  with value of 5. Not all of the customer service representatives -N of the call center  may be initially associated with incoming messages by UM . For example, only 5 customer service representatives are listed in table , whereas information about more customer service representatives are stored in the example data for table of call center . An incoming message, whose incoming source information is otherwise not specified in table is associated with a customer service representative , whose CSR ID  has a value of 4 for the example data that is shown. A message that is received into UM platform  from a customer -N for a customer service representative -N is referred to as an original message herein. Each original message is stored in the mailbox (also referred to as Inbox) of the appropriately-associated CSR.","Tables and may be related in a hierarchical structure in that table may provide further information about table ","In the exemplary embodiment of , table may represent an organizational chart . Such an organizational chart may be a representation of a partial or full hierarchical relationship of customer service representatives -N in call center . For example, if a customer -N associated with the incoming telephone number \u201c973-555-1111\u201d from the list of incoming source information  contacts UM call center , a customer service representative with CSR ID  with a value of 1 can be initially associated with that arrived original message. The information in table can be used by UM platform  to escalate handling of this message to other people (i.e., other call center employees with CSR IDs  (equivalently, ,  and ) of 2, 3 and 5), when certain conditions are met. That is, as discussed below with respect to , messages deposited in mailboxes associated with the customer service representatives -N designated in organizational chart  may be escalated to other customer service representatives -N according to one or more predetermined conditions. In the sample organization chart  of table , the CSR ID values  (, ) of employees are stored for each employee. The level of each employee may also be stored in table . For example each row of a tabular arrangement of table can include (among other data) a column value for level of that employee and another column for the CSR ID  (, ) of that employee. A total of 5 levels are shown for table , where customer service representative with the CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 4 is at level 1, customer service representatives with CSR IDs  (, , ) with values of 1, 3 and 5 are at level 2, and so on. The customer service representative with CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 10 is at level 5 in table . There can be one or more levels in the organization of the call center .","Information related to the escalations of messages among customer service representatives -N may be stored in table . Table may store information related to the length of time an escalation notification (message) about the original message or the original message itself is stored in a particular mailbox before one or more escalation notifications may be attempted. For example, a message stored in a mailbox for the customer service representative -N with CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 4 may be stored for 0.5 hours in his\/her mailbox without being retrieved, before an escalation notification about this message are sent to the next designated customer service representative(s) -N (e.g., to the customer service representative -N with the CSR ID  (, , ) with value 1 for the example data that is shown in table ). Similarly, as shown in table , a message stored in a mailbox for a customer service representative with CSR ID  (, , ) with value 1 may be stored for 1 hour before being escalated to next designated customer service representatives -N with CSR ID  (, ) values 2, 3 and 5. The CSRs that are sent escalation notification messages can be at different levels of the organization chart . In other words, different customer service representatives -N may be assigned different durations (timing delays) where messages that are held in their mailboxes before such messages can be escalated to zero or more other customer service representatives -N. The Escalation CSR IDs  list for the customer service representative with the CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 5 does not represent a valid CSR ID  (, , ) value in the example of table  (where a special value of \u201c\u2212\u201d is shown), indicating that messages for the customer service representative are not to be escalated further. In at least one other alternative embodiment, or additionally, the Timing Delay  value for the customer service representative with CSR ID  (, ) with value 5 may be set to a special value (such as \u22121) to indicate that UM platform  must not escalate handling of incoming messages for that customer service representative with CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 5. In at least one embodiment, Escalation CSR ID  values for table may be populated such that the same CSR may receive more than one escalation notifications for the same original message from a customer as described later for method . In at least one other embodiment, Escalation CSR ID  values are populated in table in a non-circular fashion to ensure that no repetitive escalation notification message can be sent to the same CSR for a single original customer message as described later for method . In all cases, as described later with respect to method , UM platform  can stop transmissions of escalation notification messages. Table can be populated with Escalation CSR ID  values such that escalations for a CSR can be sent to other CSRs who may be at the same and\/or other levels of the organization chart . For example, as shown in table , escalation notifications for an original message for a CSR with CSR ID  with value of 1 can be sent to three other CSRs with CSR ID  values 2, 3 and 5, where such three CSRs are at the same and other levels of organization chart .","In at least one embodiment, only depositing of an original message in an Inbox may result in transmissions of escalation notification messages by the UM platform  (that is, only one set of notifications, corresponding to the entry values of only one cell of the Escalation CSR IDs  column) are transmitted for an original message. For example, if an original message is deposited into the Inbox of the CSR with the CSR ID  (, , ) with value 2, only three escalation notifications can be ever generated for that original message by the UM platform  to CSRs with CRS IDs  (, ),  with values 2, 3 and 5. In at least one other embodiment, UM platform  can also transmit one or more subsequent escalation notifications (as configured in table ) upon the expiry of the timing delay  after depositing of an escalation notification in an Inbox. In this alternative embodiment, sets of subsequent notifications can be sequences, where each stage in the escalation sequence follows its separate timing delay  for the mailbox of the mailbox of the corresponding CSR.","Another table of UM database  can be used to maintain an acknowledgement flag  status and other data about each message that arrived from a customer -N and original message with zero or more transaction IDs . For conciseness, only a few rows of data are shown in , and additional rows can exist in table . Each arrived message in a UM platform  is assigned a unique message UID  by UM platform . Value of a message UID  is unique to the mailbox of each customer service representative -N, but message UID  values may be the same for different messages in different mailboxes of different customer service representatives -N. Each row of table can contain various pieces of information, including the example columns that are shown in . At least one row exists in table for each message for the Inbox (mailbox) of each customer service representative -N. In the exemplary embodiment that is shown in , data about all messages of all customer service representatives -N are stored in a single table . In at least one other embodiment, at least one separate instance of table may be used for each customer service representative to store information only about messages of that customer service representative (the CSR ID  column would be implicit in that alternate embodiment).","The CSR ID  (, , ) identifies the Inbox of the particular CSR who has received the message that is being described in that row of table . For example, the first row corresponds to a message with message UID  of value 81 that is stored in the Inbox of CSR with CSR ID  (, , ) with value 1. The second row contains data for another message with Message UID  with value of 215 for the same CSR with CSR ID  (, , ) with value 1. The 6th row corresponds to a message with Message UID  of value 81 that is stored in the Inbox of CSR with CSR ID  (, , ) with value 3. The Original CSR ID  column indicates the original recipient customer service representative -N of a message. For example, the first row for the CRS with CSR ID  (, , ) with value of 1 contains information about an original message with message UID  with value 81 that was received into the UM platform  for the CSR with the CSR ID  with value 1. The Transaction ID  can be used by customer service representatives -N to associate useful (e.g., tracking) information with each original message as described later in steps  and  of method . Transaction ID  data is optional (that cell in the table can be empty), and is stored with original messages only (it is not stored with initial notification messages or with escalation notification messages). Customer Care Message Type  column can be used to distinguish among original (shown as \u201cO\u201d) messages that have arrived for each customer service representative -N, initial notification (identified with \u201cIN\u201d) messages from the UM platform  about arrivals of original messages for customers -N, escalation notifications (shown as \u201cEN\u201d), as well as other system messages as may be desired.","Initial notification messages may be sent by the UM platform  as described later in step  of method . For example, the message with message UID  with value 215 was sent by the UM platform  to the CSR with CSR ID  (, ) with value 1 to inform him\/her that a new message (with message UID  having a value of 81) from a customer -N was deposited into his\/her mailbox by the UM platform . Contents of initial notification messages and escalation notification messages can include additional information about the corresponding original message. Example initial notification messages with Message UID  with values 19 and 82 for the CSR with CSR ID  (, ) value of 3 are shown in table for completeness, and can correspond to the original messages with message UID  with values 18 and 81, respectively. However, initial notifications are typically sent to other destinations and\/or accounts of customer service representatives -N using any suitable communication schemes such as telephone calls to mobile devices, pager messages, emails to other accounts, Etc.","Escalation notification messages (escalation notifications) are used to bring attention to original messages, which have not been retrieved for handling. Sample escalation notification messages with message UID  with values 31 and  in table indicate that two original messages having message UIDs  with values 27 and 81 for the CSR with CSR ID  (, ) with value 1 had been escalated to the CSR having the CSR ID  with value 3. In at least one embodiment, the UM platform  may delete escalation notifications from mailboxes of customer service representatives -N, if the corresponding original message is deleted. In at least another embodiment, such escalation notifications may not be automatically deleted by the UM platform  (for example, an original message with message UID  with value of 27 for CSR with the original CSR ID  with value 1 has been deleted in the example table ).","The acknowledgement flag  of table is used to keep track whether a customer service representative -N has acknowledged retrieval and handling of the original message with the message UID  value indicated in that row. The acknowledgement flag  may indicate that a message has been retrieved (value \u201cR\u201d) or not retrieved value (\u201cNR\u201d). The acknowledgement flag  is applicable only to original messages (with Customer Care Message Type  value of \u201cO\u201d). Customer service representatives -N may associate each original message with zero or more transaction IDs . Transactions can be any information that may be maintained in the UM database  or another database (not shown) such as trouble tickets, invoices, or payments. Such transactions may be related to customers -N or other events or information which may be internal to the call center . Table may contain or otherwise refer to other data (not shown) such as message type (e.g., facsimile, voicemail, email), timestamp for message arrival, message priority, Etc. Other data in database  may be used to associate each CSR ID  (, , ) to the unique email address of each customer service representative -N, as described in the co-pending and concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/582,263, entitled \u201cMessage Routing in a Unified Messaging System\u201d. Each authorized customer service representative -N can use the UM platform  to populate, modify, and\/or delete one or more transaction IDs  for an original message, after he\/she accesses each such message. Transaction ID  values are associated with only with Customer Care Message Type  values of type \u201cO\u201d (original customer messages), so as to associate such information with the original customer message. Such transaction IDs  may be used to communicate additional information about messages between customer service representatives -N, who may have accessed such a message. For example, the data in table indicates that the customer service representative with CSR ID  (, ) of value 3 may have not accessed a message in his mailbox with message UID  of value 18 yet and\/or has not assigned any transaction ID  values to it, whereas the message with message UID  with value 81 of mailbox of customer service representative with CSR ID  (, ) value of 1 has assigned two transactions ID  with values of Z7918 and 3912AB.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","102","112","108","400","402"]},"In step , a communication is received at call center . The communication may be a message, telephone call, email, facsimile, short message service (SMS) message, text message, or the like received from a customer -N. In at least one embodiment, the communication is received at UM interface . In the same or alternative embodiments, the communication is received and handled further by UM controller .","In step , user (e.g., customer) identification information is determined. In at least one embodiment, customer identification information is determined by UM interface  and\/or UM controller  based on the communication received in step . Customer identification information (e.g., a user identification designation) may be a telephone number, caller ID, email address, Internet Protocol (IP) address, or any other appropriate identifier. For example, the customer identification information may be an incoming source information  as shown in . In some cases, no customer identification information can be determined; in these cases, the incoming communication may be identified as \u201cOTHER\u201d, as shown in . In an alternative embodiment, customer identification information may be information indicative of the reason the customer -N has contacted UM call center .","In step , a determination is made as to whether a customer service representative -N is associated with the incoming communication. As described above with respect to , tables -of UM database  may be accessed (e.g., by UM controller ) and a customer service representative -N may be identified. In this way, a message recipient may be determined by querying one or more recipient databases and\/or address books. In other words, UM database \/, which includes address book (e.g., contact) information for each customer service representative -N, may be queried to determine which customer service representative -N is to be associated with the incoming communication.","If a customer service representative -N is determined in step , the method proceeds to step  and the communication is routed to that customer service representative. If no customer service representative -N is identified in step , the method proceeds to step  and the communication is routed according to a predetermined protocol.","In step , the communication received in step  is associated with and routed to the UM platform  mailbox of a customer service representative -N. That is, a look-up or other function is used to query an address book, a database, or the like to determine if the originator (sender) of the message has been associated with (e.g., assigned to, etc.) a customer service representative and the communication is sent to the mailbox of that customer service representative. The method then proceeds to step .","In at least one embodiment, the query accesses a hierarchical or organizational chart, such as organizational chart  of table in , to determine the associated customer service representative -N. In the example of , the communication associated with a caller from 973-555-333 is routed to the customer service representative -N with CSR ID  (, ) with value of 3.","If no customer service representative -N is identified in step , the communication is routed according to a predetermined protocol in step . In at least one exemplary embodiment of a predetermined protocol, which can be used when the <<OTHER>> record in table may be missing or otherwise unavailable, UM platform  sends the message to any of the customer service representatives -N who may be identified with CSR ID values  in table . In yet another embodiment, the communication is assigned to a customer service representative -N according to a predetermined schedule (e.g., next available, lowest workload, position on organizational chart , etc.) and the communication is routed to the identified customer service representative -N. The method then proceeds to step .","In step , a determination is made by one or more communication equipment components such as a telephone network switch (not shown) as to whether the designated customer service representative -N is available. Here, available refers to an ability to communicate with the customer -N in a live or practically live format such as a telephone call, video call, or the like. In at least another embodiment, the UM platform  may try to dial out a different phone for the target customer service representative , if the incoming message is a live telephone call. If the customer service representative -N is available, the method proceeds to step  and the customer -N associated with the incoming communication is connected to the customer service representative . In at least one embodiment, where the live communications is not established (e.g., for emails and facsimiles), UM platform  allows the customer -N to deposit an original message into mailbox of the customer service representative -N, as appropriate.","If the customer service representative -N is not available, the method proceeds to step  and the communication is deposited in a mailbox of the customer service representative -N as an original message (with Customer Care Message Type  value of \u201cO\u201d). An acknowledgment flag  is associated with each such newly arrived and deposited original message, and the initial value of such flag is set to \u201cNot Retrieved\u201d (also referred to as \u201cfalse\u201d), indicating that this particular communication has not been attended to and is not being handled by any customer service representative -N. In at least one embodiment, the communication is deposited in a mailbox at UM interface  that is specifically assigned to the customer service representative determined in step  instead of a general (e.g., communal) mailbox. After deposition of the communication, the particular identified customer service representative -N can be notified of the communication in step . An initial notification message may be sent by any appropriate means, such as a page, telephone call, email, email alert, SMS message, voicemail, or the like. In at least one embodiment, this initial notification would include information indicative of the customer identified in step , and may also include the message UID . In this way, the customer service representative -N responsible for a particular customer -N is notified that the customer has left a message. This is an initial notification message about arrival of a new original message from a customer -N who is associated with a particular customer service representative -N, as opposed to an escalation notification message that will be described later in connection with step  of method  with regards to a message that had previously arrived into a UM platform  and was originally associated with possibly a different customer service representative -N.","Following notification in step , message notification escalation features are enabled in step . These message escalation features are discussed further with respect to method  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","500","106","112","108","114","300","500","502","110","106","110","514","500","106"],"i":["a","a"]},"In step , a timing duration (delay) is determined. Specifically, the timing duration (delay) may be looked up from a database (e.g., table of UM database ) or other location (e.g., UM controller , UM interface , etc.). The timing duration is a time that the deposited original message (or an escalation notification message about a deposited original message) is stored (e.g., held) at a mailbox before an automatic action (e.g., escalation) is triggered. That is, the deposited original message or escalation notification message is associated with a time period before UM interface  intervenes. As discussed above, and as shown in table , the timing duration may be associated with the mailbox of the customer service representative -N.","In step , a determination is made as to whether the timing duration has elapsed. In at least one embodiment, a timer is activated and run for the timing duration determined in step . The timer counts down the timing duration determined in step . In at least one embodiment, the timer is activated when the original message from a customer -N or an escalation notification message is deposited in a mailbox. The timer may be a separate component of UM platform , may be a part of UM interface , may be implemented as logic by UM controller , or may be implemented through another method. The determination is continually made until the timing duration has elapsed. The method then proceeds to step .","In step , a determination is made as to whether the subject original message has been retrieved by a customer service representative -N. This determination is made based on an acknowledgement flag  that is associated with the original message as shown in table . The status of the acknowledgement flag  indicates whether or not the message has been retrieved. If the message has been retrieved, the method proceeds to step  and the method ends.","If the message has not been retrieved, the method proceeds to step  and zero or more other customer service representatives -N is(are) determined for escalation notifications. The other customer service representative(s) -N is (are) determined according to a predetermined structure, or other escalation parameters. In at least one embodiment, the new message recipient is determined based on information that has been configured in table . The method then proceeds to step .","In step , a decision is made, based on the determined results of step , whether further escalation of the message is necessary. If no escalation CSR IDs  are found for that customer service representative -N and\/or a pre-determined timing value (such as \u22121) is observed in step , no further escalations are indicated, and the method proceeds to end at step . Otherwise, the method proceeds to step . Alternatively, escalation may occur because of some other reason, e.g., it is known that the identified customer service representative will not be available within an acceptable period of time.","In step , an escalation notification message is sent to each recipient that was identified in step . Each escalation notification message is not simply a copy of the original message. In at least one embodiment, each escalation notification message includes some of the information associated with the originally-arrived message (e.g., incoming telephone number, importance, original CSR ID , original message UID , etc.) and\/or be enhanced with additional information (e.g., time elapsed since original message deposit, customer information, etc.). Furthermore, each escalation notification message can include hyperlinks as used in the Hypertext Transport Markup Language (HTML) links, where activations of such links by each CSR recipient would cause the UM interface  and\/or UM controller  to affect the acknowledgement flag  and possibly other data associated with the status of the originally arrived message. Examples of actions associated with such hyperlinks include, but are not necessarily limited to: \u201cI Will Handle This Customer Message\u201d and \u201cI Can Not Handle This Customer Message\u201d. An \u201cI Will Handle This Customer Message\u201d action invocation by a customer service representative -N can set the acknowledgement flag  associated with the original message to \u201cRetrieved\u201d (also referred to as \u201cR\u201d and \u201cTrue\u201d). An \u201cI Can Not Handle This Customer Message\u201d action invocation by a customer service representative -N can set the acknowledgement flag  associated with the original message to \u201cNot Retrieved\u201d (also, referred to as \u201cN\u201d and \u201cFalse\u201d). The original customer service representative -N who receives an original message can also use UM interface  and\/or UM controller  to change the value of the acknowledgement flag . In at least one embodiment, the UM platform  can re-invoke method  to re-trigger escalations, if a customer service representative -N changes the acknowledgement status  to \u201cNot Retrieved\u201d. The acknowledgment flag  is used in step  of method . Database  may contain additional data (not shown) to maintain an audit trail of such status changes for each message, and such audit trail can include CSR IDs  (, , ) of each customer service representative -N whose actions affected the state of the acknowledgement flag . An illustrative form for a sample hyperlink that may appear within escalated notification messages may be of the form http:\/\/<address of the UM interface  or UM controller >?action=<any_action>&original_recipient_csr_id=<CSR ID >&msg_uid_of_original_recipient=<Message UID >&csr_id_of_invoker=<CSR ID >&trans_id=<transaction_id >. Angled brackets are used to denote the intent of an item in the example hyperlink form syntax. The <any_action> parameter can be (among other possibilities), for example, \u201cr\u201d for retrieve (which may implicitly also result in setting the acknowledgement flag  to \u201cTrue\u201d), \u201ch\u201d for \u201cI Will Handle This Customer Message\u201d as described earlier, and \u201cn\u201d for \u201cI Can Not Handle This Customer Message\u201d as described earlier, \u201catid\u201d for \u201cadd transaction ID\u201d, \u201cdtid\u201d for \u201cdelete transaction ID\u201d, Etc. In at least one embodiment, a change to the transaction ID  property of an original message also implicitly results in changing the value of the acknowledgement flag . In at least one other embodiment, any change to the value of the acknowledgement flag  must be the result of an explicit action by a customer service representative -N or other authorized personnel (not shown) of call center . An example hyperlink may be http:\/\/192.168.0.76?action=r&original recipient csr id=1&msg uid of original recipient=81&csr id of invoker=3&trans id=0. Operations on transaction IDs  will be described using method  and . Any customer service representative may manipulate the status of an original message that he\/she initially received from a customer -N. In one embodiment, UM platform  authorizations for changing the values of transaction ID  and acknowledgement flag  for an original message of CSR by other CSRs (customer service representatives -N other than the originally-assigned customer service representative ) may be implicit (that is, any CSR -N would be authorized by the UM platform  to change such information). In another embodiment, UM platform  authorizations for changing the values of transaction ID  and acknowledgement flag  for an original message of CSR by other CSRs (customer service representatives -N other than the originally-assigned customer service representative ) may be limited such that only the CSRs whose Escalation CSR IDs  (, , ) are configured in one or more of the rows of table may change such information. Benefits of escalation messages that are disclosed herein include the facts that only one copy of the originally-received communication (original message) can be maintained in the UM platform , the fact that copies of that original message not need to be propagated to other customer service representatives -N or otherwise maintained, the fact that simple status changes to original messages can be made by authorized customer service representatives -N using escalated notification messages with action hyperlinks, and that fact the status of each originally-received message is maintained by using a simple global acknowledgement flag  that can be manipulated by targeted authorized customer service representatives.","The method then returns to step  and a new timing duration is determined. As discussed above, each customer service representative -N may have a different associated timing duration stored in database .","In some embodiments, after determining that a message has not been retrieved in step , UM interface  or UM controller  may access a calendar of any or all of the message recipient(s) to determine if the message recipient(s) should be available, is(are) away, is(are) on vacation, etc. In this way, the UM platform  may determine if further escalation is required. In some embodiments, the timing duration may be reset or modified based on such calendar information. The system will continue to check on the status of the original message until the original message is marked retrieved or the escalation parameters reach the highest escalation contact as defined in the escalation parameters.","As described above, a customer service representative -N may assign zero or more transaction IDs  to an original message.  is a flowchart illustrating a method  of assigning transaction IDs  to an original message according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example, the method  of  enables a customer service representative to assign at least one transaction ID  to a message in the mailbox of the customer service representative -N and modify or remove any transaction IDs  assigned to an original message. The method  begins at step . In step , UM platform  deposits an original message in the mailbox (e.g., as described in step  of method ), and assigns a unique message UID  to this new message in that mailbox. The UM platform  selects which mailboxes to send original messages, initial notification messages and escalation notification message as described above in methods  and . In step , UM platform  sends at least one initial notification and\/or escalation notification message about the deposited original message to one or more customer service representatives -N. This notification step is described above in step  of method  and step  of method . In step , in response to receiving the notification about the deposited message, a customer service representative retrieves the message from the mail box. This sets the status acknowledgment flag  to \u201cRetrieved\u201d. This acknowledgement flag  is read in step  of method . In step , optionally, at least one transaction ID  is associated with the message and stored in database  based on input received from the customer service representative . This allows the customer service representative to assign one or more transaction IDs  to the original message. In step , existing transaction IDs  associated with the original message are modified or removed or new transaction IDs  associated with the original message are added based on input received from the customer service representative . This allows the customer service representative to modify or remove any existing transaction ID  or assign a new transaction ID  to an original message. The customer service representative who originally received the original message can use the UM controller  to assign, remover, or modify zero or more transaction IDs  to an original message. The method  ends at step . It is to be understood that method  of  allows an authorized customer service representative to specify or modify transaction IDs  associated with a message in the mailbox of the customer service representative at any time. Any customer service representative may manipulate transaction ID  values for the messages that he\/she initially received from a customer -N. Authorizations for customer service representatives -N other than the originally-assigned customer service representative may be implicit or may be enforced by the UM platform  using that Escalation CSR IDs  that can be configured in table of database , as described earlier.","Though discussed herein as being related to a call center and customer service representatives, one of skill in the art would recognize that the methods and systems described herein could be extended to any appropriate organizational structure. That is, the escalation methods of  and the method of  for assigning transaction IDs to a message could be used in any firm, company, network, or the like. In such cases, customer service representatives would be any internal users of the system and the call center would be any network or calling system used by the organization.","The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary, but not restrictive, and the scope of the general inventive concept disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description, but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present general inventive concept and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
