---
title: Compact electrochemical bifunctional NO/Osensors with internal reference for high temperature applications
abstract: A bifunctional total NOand Osensor assembly with an internal reference for high temperature sensing. Two electrochemical total NO(NO+NO) measuring systems and method were coupled with a metal/metal oxide internal oxygen reference to detect Oand NOsimultaneously in a combustion environment using a single sensor. A Pd/PdO-containing reference chamber was sealed within a stabilized zirconia superstructure by a high pressure/temperature bonding method. An amperometric and potentiometric NOsensor assembly was built on the outside of the Pd/PdO chamber. Pt-loaded zeolite Y was used to obtain total NOcapacity and also to cover the Pt electrodes for detecting oxygen in the presence of NO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08012323&OS=08012323&RS=08012323
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08012323
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090311
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS","Example I","Example II","Example III"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/035,962 filed Mar. 12, 2008 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The United States Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W-31-109-Eng-38 between the United States Government and the University of Chicago and\/or pursuant to Contract Nos. DE-ACO2-06CH11357 and DE-PS26-02NT41422 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne, LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory and grant DE-FC 26 03NT41615 to Ohio State University.","This invention is directed generally to an electrochemical sensor. More particularly, the invention is directed to a system and a method for use of electrochemical bifunctional NO\/Osensors. This sensor system employs a combination of two different electrochemical NOmeasuring techniques, amperometric and potentiometric, to sense both Oand total NO(NO+NO).","Industrial systems as well as automotive and truck applications require monitoring of various gas compositions, such as O, NO, CO and CO, in a combustion environment to insure efficient, non-polluting operations. For instance, carefully controlling the oxygen level in boilers can maximize energy output and minimize pollutant emissions. It is estimated that yearly savings of $409 million from coal-fired power plants could be enabled through combustion optimization. In view of increasing commercial demands and legal requirements for decrease of pollutants, such sensor systems are extremely important. For example NO(NO+NO) sensing is considered as one of the key elements of next generation internal combustion engines; and thus accurate and reliable NOsensors must be developed to monitor NObreakthrough to activate regeneration of NOabsorption catalysts and\/or to control the injection of reductants for continuous NOreduction. Further, for automotive and truck applications, the monitoring and control of both NOand Ois necessary for emission control and\/or air-to-fuel ratio measurement to maximize efficiency and reduce pollutants.","Conventional oxygen sensors require a continuous source of reference air to measure accurately the content of oxygen in the combustion of gases. This requirement increases the complexity and cost of oxygen sensing systems. Most high temperature sensors capable of detecting Oand NOare based on stabilized zirconia, which has high ionic conductivity, as well as good mechanical and chemical stability at high temperatures. Zirconia oxygen sensors have long been used to monitor the performance of internal combustion engines in automobiles in order to increase the fuel efficiency and minimize emissions. The use of an external oxygen reference is the most common approach to detect oxygen. In this design, air is provided from outside the combustion environment to a reference electrode that is separated from the sensing environment by a zirconia channel. The oxygen concentration differential between the outside and the measuring environment generates an open circuit potential that obeys the Nernst law, allowing for direct calculation of the unknown concentration of oxygen. For NOdetection, a multistage configuration in which gases in the combustion environment diffuse through a narrow channel into one or two chambers constructed of laminated YSZ (yttria-stabilized zirconia) sheets. The first chamber is normally equipped with oxygen pumping electrodes, which can selectively remove oxygen from the gas mixture to minimize the oxygen interference. A pair of noble metal electrodes then electrochemically converts the NOmixture into NO or NOexclusively, which is detected by either potentiometric or amperometric methods at the last stage.","Nevertheless, although great effort has been devoted to develop NO\/Odual sensors with the multi-stage configuration, a commercially successful product has still not been achieved. In order to construct gas chambers and introduce reference air from the external environment, a number of YSZ sheets and insulation layers (up to about thirteen separate layers) need to be well aligned and laminated. This process drastically increases the complexity of sensor fabrication and compromises the sensor durability under thermal shock and thermal cycles. On the other hand, it is beneficial to use more than one gas sensor in more than one location to optimize performance in multi-cylinder engines. A sensor that requires external air constrains the location of sensors inside the combustion environment and impedes the development toward sensor miniaturization. Consequently, a system meeting all the increasing needs of industrial applications has yet to be achieved.","In order to achieve a dual Oand NOsensor that requires no external reference gas and is cost effective, two electrochemical, total NOmeasuring techniques are coupled with a metal\/metal oxide internal oxygen reference to sense both Oand NOsimultaneously using a single sensor within a given combustion environment. For example, a metal oxide (such as Pd\/PdO) containing reference chamber was sealed within a stabilized zirconia superstructure by a high pressure\/temperature bonding method that initiated grain boundary sliding between the ceramic components to enable proper bonding. Amperometric and potentiometric NOsensing devices were disposed on an external portion of the Pd\/PdO chamber. Pt-loaded zeolite Y was used to obtain total NOcapacity and to cover the Pt electrodes used for detecting the oxygen component in the presence of NO. Both of the amperometric and potentiometric sensors achieved good NO\/Osignal stability, total NOresponse and virtually insignificant NO\u2014Ocross interference. Since there is no need for reference gas components, the sensors can be more readily and efficiently positioned in a gas combustion environment.","These and other objects, advantages and features of the invention, together with the organization and manner of operation thereof, will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","A bifunctional sensor assembly  constructed in accordance with concepts of the invention is shown in . A basic package superstructure  is constructed in an embodiment as shown in  using a plurality of components. A YTZP ring  and a bottom wafer  were preferably cut from densified rods\/tubes of 3 mol % yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystals (YTZP, Custom Technical Ceramics). The 8 mol % cubic yttria-stabilized zirconia spacers  were cut from a rod (supplied by Custom Technical Ceramics). The YTZP green tapes  (Nextech Materials) were laser cut from sheets into rings that matched the YTZP rings  cut from tubes. The Pt wire  (99.95%, 0.13 mm in diameter, Fischer Scientific) to the inner reference electrode  was sandwiched between the two pieces of YTZP green tape . The assembly  was then constructed by sealing PdO (Alfa Aesar) into a reference chamber . A mixture of Pd\/PdO  is formed at the sensor operating temperature along with the reference P(O) as predicted by the Ellingham diagram. In other embodiments, other transition metals and oxides of the transition metal may also be used, for example, Ni\/NiO, Co\/CoO, Fe\/FeO, Rh\/RhO, among others. A small amount of 8 mol % YSZ powder (TZ-8Y, Tosoh) was placed on top of PdO  to prevent alloying with the Pt wire  of the reference electrode . The Pt loaded zeolite Y powder was prepared and characterized as explained in Example I. Each \u201csandwich\u201d superstructure  as shown in  was processed as explained in Example II.","As shown in  the potentiometric arrangement was prepared by first finishing the assembly , and then two Pt lead wires \/ were attached to the top of the assembly  with a small amount of commercial Pt ink (Englehard, A4731). The end of the Pt lead wire  that is attached to the YSZ  was shaped into a disc of 2 mm diameter in order to increase the mechanical stability. The Pt ink was cured at 1200\u00b0 C. for two hours to secure bonding between the Pt wire  and the YSZ . WOpowder was mixed with \u03b1-terpineol to form a paste, which was then painted on top of the Pt lead wire  and the YSZ . A resulting WOlayer  was spread over as much of the YSZ  as possible. In other embodiments, other transition metal oxides and mixed transition metal oxides may be used as sensing electrodes. For example, a mixed transition metal oxide comprising lanthanum strontium iron cobalt oxides may be used in various embodiments. After sintering at 700\u00b0 C. in air for 2 hours, the WOlayer  was typically about 200 \u03bcm thick. PtY was also mixed with \u03b1-terpineol and painted on top of another Pt lead wire  to form a reference electrode . The PtY layer  is around 100 \u03bcm thick after calcination in air at 600\u00b0 C. for about two hours.","In the amperometric arrangement instead of two Pt lead wires being placed on top of the sensor assembly  for the potentiometric sensor, three Pt wires (working , counter  and reference ) were mounted on the amperometric form of the sensor  (see ). At 500\u00b0 C., the Pt reference electrode  on the YSZ  cannot be a good reversible electrode. A counter electrode  is therefore required for accurate potential control. The reference electrode  was kept well separated from working electrode  and the counter electrode  to reduce electrical interference. The PtY  was mixed with \u03b1-terpineol to form a paste and then painted on top of all three of the electrodes , , and . The sensor assembly  was heated in 650\u00b0 C. air for 2 hours and then cooled back to 500\u00b0 C. for sensing analyses.","The oxygen sensing behavior was first examined at 500\u00b0 C. and 600\u00b0 C., the most preferred working temperatures for the amperometric and potentiometric NOsensing configurations. As shown in , the open circuit potential between the Pd\/PdO internal reference electrode  and the PtY reference electrode , exhibits Nernstian behavior at both temperatures. At 600\u00b0 C., the calculated internal P(O) is lower than the theoretical P(O) created by Pd\/PdO. One of the possible reasons for the deviation is that the temperature experienced by the sensor is slightly different from the furnace setting. For example, the sensor assembly  might not be located at the center of the heating zone, and a 5-1\u00b0 C. temperature deviation could be measured.","In  the NO and NOconcentration was changed from 1 ppm to 200 ppm to check the NOsensing performance of the amperometric sensor. The amperometric form of the sensor  () at 500\u00b0 C. was anodically polarized to 80 mV (versus the PtY reference electrode ); and the current in the presence of 1-200 ppm NOin 3% Owas recorded with gases passing through the PtY overcoat . The bias potential of 80 mV was chosen based on the I-V behavior since a measurable current in the presence of NOwas expected. The calibration plot in  exhibits a linear relationship between current and the concentration of NO. The similarity of response transients in  to NO and NOin the concentration range of 1-13.5 ppm demonstrates that the PtY thick film  coated on the sensor surface can equilibrate the NOmixture; and the sensor assembly  produces a total NOresponse.","A potentiometric form of the sensor assembly  was tested with the gas mixture passing through the PtY filter  heated at 400\u00b0 C., which was chosen as the optimal filter temperature because maximum NOsignal was observed without the occurrence of catalytic reductions when NHwas also present. As shown in , NOand NO with the same concentration (5-600 ppm) generates almost the same potential on the sensor assembly ; and the potential displays a logarithmic relation to NOconcentration. The use of the PtY filter  makes it possible to measure total NOand reduce the interferences from CO, propane, NHand CO. The intense NOsignal arises from dissimilarity of catalytic activity of PtY and WO. In other embodiments, other metal oxides and supported catalysts that are efficient for NOequilibration may be used as the filter material. Catalytic activity measurements and temperature programmed desorption indicated that WOwas almost inactive toward NOequilibration; and no chemisorbed NOspecies was released from the WOsurface. On the contrary, PtY has much higher activity toward NOequilibration. Therefore, on the WOelectrode , electrochemical reactions that generate the electric potential compete with weaker heterogeneous catalytic reactions (non-electrochemical reactions); and the opposite phenomenon happens on the PtY reference electrode .","Both types of the sensor assembly  (amperometric and potentiometric) were tested with 100 ppm NOin oxygen levels from 4% to 13.5% to examine the cross interference between NOand oxygen. In , the oxygen signal does not have significant NOinterference from 100 ppm NOsince the covered PtY equilibrates NObefore it reached the triple-phase boundary.  was actually acquired after performing an \u201celectrochemical pretreatment.\u201d Because of the low ionic conductivity of YSZ and high electrode interfacial impedance at 500\u00b0 C., the sensor assembly  had sluggish Oresponse, which was not acceptable for real-time Omonitoring. In order to expedite the response, an electrochemical treatment was performed by polarizing the PtY reference electrode  to 500 mV for two hours, followed by relaxing the polarization in air overnight (also at 500\u00b0 C.). This polarization treatment decreases the electrode interfacial impedance and the response time. This phenomenon remains effective for at last one week at 500\u00b0 C. As shown in , the Oresponse time in 500\u00b0 C. is almost the same as in 600\u00b0 C. after the treatment. Electrochemical pretreatment has been applied to increase the stability and alter the impedance of electrodes in various electrochemical devices including glassy fiber detectors, sol-gel carbon composite electrodes, and zirconia sensors.","The oxygen interference with the NOsignal of the potentiometric device is not significant when the PtY filter  is applied (see ). For 100 ppm NOonly less than 10% relative error is observed when changing oxygen levels from 4% to 13.5%. The amperometric configuration has more pronounced oxygen interference with 39% relative error. Nevertheless, when a more accurate NOreading is desired, the oxygen signal from the internal oxygen reference can be used to correct the NOsignal by performing calibration runs in advance.  indicate that both types of the sensor assembly  are capable of detecting Oand NOsimultaneously without substantial cross interference.","To examine the long-term stability of the sensor, an amperometric type sensor was tested at 500\u00b0 C. for two months with O(3%, 21%) and NO(40-110 ppm), and the results are presented in . There is a drift in the NObackground signal with time, which approaches steady state after 1 month. The signal current vs. [NO] curves obtained at various times have similar slopes (see  inserted), which implies that the signal drift could be corrected periodically from the baseline signal (0 ppm NO). For the oxygen signal, an extremely stable signal was measured during the two-month period with only 1% error.","Signal change from a potentiometric sensor over a two-week period is shown in . Amounts of 45-600 ppm NOand 3-21% Owere introduced to the test chamber each day without flowing through a PtY filter. Less than 0.5% error is observed from the oxygen signal. In the case of the NOsignal, the maximum error observed in the two-week period is 7.8%. The good stability of both types of sensor configurations indicates good thermal and chemical compatibility of sensor materials, including Pt, WO, PtY, YSZ, sealing glass, and PdO.","The difference of potentiometric and amperometric configurations are summarized in Table 1 below. Generally, the potentiometric sensor has more reliable signal and less oxygen cross interference. However, it required a separate filter housing and two sets of temperature controllers. The small size of the amperometric form of the sensor assembly  makes it attractive in certain applications. The drawbacks include the need of periodic calibration and the potential-control electronics is more costly, since the sensor is not operated in the limiting-current mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Comparison of amperometric and potentiometric configurations."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"NO","O",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Oxygen","NO","Interference","Interference","Signal vs.","Signal vs."]},{"entry":["Configuration","Response","Response","to O","to NO","PO","[NO]"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Amperometric","Slow","Fast","None","\u221239%","Logarithmic","Linear"]},{"entry":["Potentiometric","Fast","Fast","None","\u221210%","Logarithmic","Logarithmic"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Working",{},{},"Temperature"]},{"entry":["Configuration","Temperature","Size","Measurement","Control"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Amperometric","500\u00b0 C.","very small","voltmeter + potential","one controller"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(FIG. 1b)","control electronic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(<$150)"]},{"entry":["Potentiometric","Sensor at 600\u00b0 C.","need filter","voltmeter","two controllers"]},{"entry":[{},"Filter at 400\u00b0 C.","housing"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"left","id":"FOO-00001"},"sup":"a"}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"left","id":"FOO-00002"},"sup":"b"}}]}}]}}},"A Pd\/PdO internal oxygen reference was coupled with two electrochemical total NOmeasuring techniques to detect Oand NOsimultaneously in a combustion environment. A pressure and high temperature bonding method was used to create an effective physical seal of the Pd\/PdO reference chamber, followed by building amperometric and potentiometric NOsensing devices outside the chamber. PtY was used to obtain total NOcapacity and to cover the reference electrodes for detecting Oin the presence of NO. WOwas exploited with PtY to create dissimilarity of catalytic activity and generate intense potentiometric signal. Both amperometric and potentiometric types of the sensor assembly  show good NO\/Osignal stability and total NOresponse. Insignificant oxygen cross interference on NOsignal was observed. The good stability of both designs indicates good thermal and chemical compatibility of the materials of the sensors, including Pt, WO, PtY, YSZ, sealing glass, and PdO.","The following non-limiting examples illustrate various aspects of the invention.","The Pt-loaded zeolite Y powder was prepared and characterized as follows: Na-exchanged zeolite Y (Si\/Al=2.5, Union Carbide, LZY-52) was prepared by ion-exchange. 1.0 g of NaY powder was dried at 100\u00b0 C. for 4 hours followed by mixing with 2.5 mM [Pt(NH)]Cl(Alfa Aesar) solution. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature for ion-exchange. After washing and centrifuging with distilled water several times, the Pt-exchanged powder was dried at 70\u00b0 C. for 3 hours and then calcined at 300\u00b0 C. for 2 hours. The heating rate of calcination was set to 0.2\u00b0 C.\/min to increase the Pt dispersion by preventing autoreduction of the ammonia ligand. The calcined zeolite was exposed to 5% Hto reduce Ptin the zeolite framework to metallic Pt. The Pt content determined by ICP-OES in Galbraith Lab Inc. was 4.36%. WOwas used from a commercial powder (99.8%, Alfa Aesar) without any further treatment.","For material characterization, a FEI XL30 FEG ESEM was used to investigate the microstructure of PtY and WO. A Rigaku Geigerflex X-Ray Powder Diffractometer was applied to examine the crystal structure of PtY and WO. The dispersion of Pt clusters was inspected by FEI Tecnai TF-20 transmission electron microscope with the HAADF detector. The BET surface area was measured by Micrometrics ASAP 2020 analyzer.","The sandwich superstructure  of  was compressed in an argon atmosphere at temperatures ranging from 1250\u00b0 C. to 1290\u00b0 C. in a universal testing machine which is not shown (Instron, Model 1125) at crosshead speeds ranging from 0.01 mm\/min to 0.02 mm\/min. The strain rate used for all experiments was about 4\u00d710sin order to avoid overstressing the sample and damaging the Pt wire. In the >1250\u00b0 C. temperature domain, this strain rate is expected to yield total stresses on a 1 cmsample of less than 40 MPa. The system was allowed 30 minutes at the joining temperature to attain thermal equilibrium. Following joining, a glass (C153M glass, Asahi) was applied to the region of the sensor package where the Pt wire breached the inner-to-outer environment. C153M is a frit sealing glass composed of SiO, ZnO, and organic compounds (softens at 800\u00b0 C., crystallizes at 910\u00b0 C.). The glass powder was mixed with a-terpineol to make a slurry and a small amount was applied to the base of the Pt wire. The sensor was heated to 1200\u00b0 C. for 3 hours to densify the glass plug.","The gas sensing experiments were performed by placing a quartz tube inside a tube furnace (Lindberg Blue, TF55035A). A computer-controlled gas delivery system with calibrated mass flow controllers (MFC) was used to introduce the test gases. Four certified N-balanced NOcylinders (30 ppm NO, 30 ppm NO, 2000 ppm NO, and 2000 ppm NOPraxair) were used as NOsources. Sensor tests were carried out with mixtures of dry air, NO, and nitrogen with total gas flow rates of 200 cc\/min at 500\u00b0 C. or 600\u00b0 C. As schematically shown in , the gas mixture from MFCs could be introduced into the tube furnace either through or bypassing the PtY filter . The PtY filter  is a U-shape quartz tube with 100 mg PtY placed on quartz wool.","Three (or four for the amperometric configuration) Pt wires were used to connect the sensor to external leads. For both configurations (), the open circuit potential between the oxygen reference and the PtY reference (the reference electrode  on the top of sensors, covered by PtY) was recorded by a multiplex data acquisition system (HP 34970A) with 10 G\u03a9 internal impedance. The oxygen reference electrode  was connected to the negative terminal of the HP multimeter. For the amperometric configuration (), a homemade portable potentiostat was used to apply a constant potential on the working electrode . The current (nA range) was converted to voltage (mA range) by a RCA 3140 OP-Amp and was measured also by the HP multimeter. In the potentiometric configuration (see ), the open circuit potential between the WOlayer  and PtY reference electrode  was measured by the HP multimeter with the PtY electrode  connected to the negative terminal.","The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed, and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments, and with various modifications, as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C"],"sub":["x","2","2 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C"],"sub":["x","2 ","2 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D"],"sub":["x ","2 ","2 ","x ","2 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C"],"sub":["2 ","2","x"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"],"sub":["2 ","x ","2 ","2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
