---
title: Flexible cloud management
abstract: A cloud management system can maintain a set of “virtual groups,” and assign different “virtual groups” to particular computing resources. The “virtual groups” can be based on the particular usage (type of virtual machine, application of the virtual machine, function of the virtual machine, and the like) of the members in the groups and/or can be based on the specifications of the computing resources (type and amount of computing resources). When instantiating virtual machines in a cloud, the cloud management system can utilize the “virtual groups” to identify and allocate the computing resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311162&OS=09311162&RS=09311162
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09311162
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090527
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention relates generally to network computing, more particularly, to systems and methods for cloud computing related networks, services and products.","The advent of cloud-based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores, media outlets, and other on-line sites or services. In general, a cloud-based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors, operating systems, software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example, a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis, for instance, to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short-term basis, such as hours or days, for their intended application.","Currently, cloud-based computing architectures are supported by dedicated servers used solely to operate the clouds. These dedicated servers utilize unitary virtualization schemes in order to instantiate virtual machines in the cloud. Likewise, these architectures lack flexibility in selecting resources to include in the cloud.","For simplicity and illustrative purposes, the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However, one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to, and can be implemented in, all types of information and systems, and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover, in the following detailed description, references are made to the accompanying figures, which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical, mechanical, logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.","Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for flexible management of a cloud computing environment. More particularly, embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud management system can identify and utilize computing resources for a cloud regardless of the infrastructure of the computing resources and the mechanisms used to instantiate virtual machines in the cloud.","According to embodiments, the cloud management system can be configured to identify and manage computing resources for a cloud that allow for instantiating virtual machines in the cloud so that the utilization of the computing resources available is maximized. The cloud management system can be utilized in any type of cloud architecture regardless of the type of computing resources and the virtualization scheme used to instantiate the virtual machines. For example, the cloud management system can be used in dedicated cloud environments. Likewise, the cloud management system can be utilized in existing data centers in order to support ad-hoc clouds formed from existing and available computing resources.","According to embodiments, when a requester requests use of the cloud, the cloud management system can be configured to receive specifications of the cloud usage from the requester. The specifications can include how the requester plans to use the cloud (mail server, application server, web server, etc.) and\/or specific requirements for the computing resources (amount of processing power, amount of memory, amount of storage, amount of bandwidth, etc.). The cloud management system can be configured to maintain an inventory of computing resources available to the cloud and the current utilization of those resources. The cloud management system can be configured to utilize the specifications from the requester and the inventory of available computing resources to determine which cloud resources to devote to the requester's virtual machines to maximize the computing resources and meet the requester's specifications.","According to embodiments, the cloud management system can maintain a set of \u201cvirtual groups,\u201d and assign different \u201cvirtual groups\u201d to particular computing resources. The \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the particular usage (type of virtual machine, application of the virtual machine, function of the virtual machine, and the like) of the members in the groups. For example, the cloud management system can establish a \u201cvirtual group\u201d for web servers. The cloud management system can classify the computing resources for the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d based on which computing resources are best suited for web servers. As members of the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d request use of the cloud, the cloud management system can assign the available computing resources classified in the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d to the members.","Likewise, the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the specifications of the computing resources (type and amount of computing resources). For example, the cloud management system can create a \u201cvirtual group\u201d for high power computing users. The cloud management system can assign resources to this group that can adequately support computing intensive virtual machines. As members of the high power \u201cvirtual group\u201d request use of the cloud, the cloud management system can assign the available computing resources classified in the high power \u201cvirtual group\u201d to the members.","By supporting a cloud regardless of the infrastructure and virtualization scheme, the cloud management system can create, manage, and support the cloud on any type of computing resources. Additionally, by classifying the computing resources, the cloud management system can maximize the usage of computing resources in the cloud and tailor the computing resources according to processes running in the cloud. As such, the cloud management system can provide flexibility and efficiency to any cloud computing environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106"]},"As shown for example in , the collection of computing resources supporting the dedicated cloud  can comprise a set of resource servers  configured to deliver computing resources and components needed to instantiate a virtual machine, process, or other resource. For example, one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver to and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time, to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine, such as an email client, a browser application, a messaging application, or other applications or software. Other types of resource servers are possible.","In embodiments, in addition to supporting the dedicated cloud , the cloud management system  can be configured to support the ad-hoc cloud . The ad-hoc cloud  can be composed of a variety of computing resources that may not be dedicated to a cloud but can have available computing resources to contribute to the ad-hoc cloud . For example, a corporation or university can have a large number of computing resources that support a variety of process (email, websites, individual user computing, and the like). The corporation or university can utilize the available excess computing resources to support an ad-hoc cloud, such as ad-hoc cloud .","In embodiments, as shown in , the ad-hoc cloud  can be supported by a number of computing systems . For example, the computing systems  can include a variety of systems such as a set of servers  and  and standalone user computing systems  and . The computing systems  can include hardware resources, such as processors, memory, network hardware, storage devices, and the like, and software resources, such as operating systems (OS), application programs, and the like.","In embodiments, the entire set of resource servers  or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud  and the computing systems  used to support the cloud  can be managed by the cloud management system . The cloud management system  can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and\/or other software, hardware, and network tools that communicate via one or more networks  and networks , such as the Internet or other public or private network, with all sets of resource servers  to manage the cloud  and with computing systems  to manage the cloud  and their operation.","In embodiments, to manage the clouds  and , the cloud management system  can be configured identify the computing resources of the set of resource servers  and computing systems . The cloud management system  can be configured to include a network management agent that is capable of querying the set of resource servers  and computing systems  to determine the hardware and software resources. Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with external network management systems and\/or resources monitoring agents executing on the set of resource servers  and computing systems  in order to determine the hardware and software resources of the set of resource servers  and computing systems .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to identify both the hardware and software resources of the set of resource servers  and computing systems  and which of those resources are available for use in the cloud. The cloud management system  can be configured to identify the hardware resources such as type and amount of processing power, type and amount of memory, type and amount of storage, type and amount of network bandwidth and the like, of the set of resource servers  and computing systems . Likewise, the cloud management system can be configured to identify the software resources, such as type of OS, application programs, and the like, of the set of resource servers  and computing systems .","In embodiments, once the computing resources have been identified, the cloud management system  can be configured to store an identification of the available resources in an inventory  in a repository . The repository  can be any type of structure configured to store information, such as a database. The repository  can be maintained in a computer readable storage device or medium whether local to or remote from the cloud management system .","In embodiments, the inventory  can be configured to include information that identifies the set of resource server  and computing systems  and information identifying the computing resources available. The sets of resource servers  and each system in the computing systems  can be identified by unique identifiers such as, for instance, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses or other addresses. In the inventory , the cloud management system  can associate, with each unique identifier, the computing resources available on that computing system.","In embodiments, to instantiate a new set of virtual machines, a requester can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system . The instantiation request can include the specifications for the set of virtual machines. The specifications can include the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A requester can, for instance, make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email, messaging or other applications from the cloud  and\/or . The specifications can also include the type and\/or amount of computing resources required. For example, the instantiation request can specify an amount of processing power or input\/output (I\/O) throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resources.","In embodiments, the requester's instantiation request can specify a variety of other specifications defining the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request, for example, can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be, for example, an hour, a day, or other increment of time. In embodiments, the requester's instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis, rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance, a requester could request resources until a software update is completed. The requester can also, for instance, specify a service level agreement (SLA) acceptable for their application. One skilled in the art will realize that the requester's request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary specifications, and others.","In embodiments, the instantiation request can be received and processed by the cloud management system , which identifies the type of virtual machine, process, or other resource being requested from the specifications. The cloud management system  can then identify the collection of computing resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. For example, the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts, or other transaction sites.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to utilize the specifications from the instantiation request and the inventory  of available computing resources to determine which cloud resources to devote to the requester's virtual machines to maximize the computing resources of the clouds  and\/or  and meet the requester's specifications. For example, the cloud management system  can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers  and\/or computing system in the computing systems  that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can maintain a set of \u201cvirtual groups,\u201d and assign the set of resource servers  and computing systems  to different \u201cvirtual groups\u201d. The \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the particular usage (type of virtual machine, application of the virtual machine, function of the virtual machine, and the like) of the members in the groups. For example, the cloud management system  can set up a \u201cvirtual group\u201d for web servers. The cloud management system  can classify the computing resources for the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d based on which computing resources are best suited for web servers. As members of the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d request use of the cloud, the cloud management system  can assign the available computing resources classified in the web server \u201cvirtual group\u201d to the members. Likewise, the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the specifications of the computing resources (type and amount of computing resources). For example, the cloud management system  can create a \u201cvirtual group\u201d for high power computing users. The cloud management system  can assign resources to this group that can adequately support computing intensive virtual machines. As members of the high power \u201cvirtual group\u201d request use of the cloud, the cloud management system  can assign the available computing resources classified in the high power \u201cvirtual group\u201d to the members. The cloud management system  can maintain the virtual groups in a group record  in repository .","When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified, the cloud management system  can communicate with one or more set of resource servers  and\/or computing systems  to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system  can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers  and\/or computing systems  to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments, permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers  and the computing resources  available to the cloud management system , because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments, other hardware, software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example, other software services that are provided outside of the clouds  and  and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in-cloud virtual machines. For further example, other non-cloud hardware and\/or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the clouds  and , either on an on-demand or subscribed or decided basis.","With the specification and resources identified, the cloud management system  can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on-demand basis. For example, one set of resource servers  or computing systems  can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers  or computing systems  can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth, for example on a guaranteed minimum or best-efforts basis. In other embodiments, the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example, a set of resource servers  and\/or computing systems  can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time, such as the next 12 hours.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers  and\/or computing systems from the computing systems , to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system  can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers , computing systems from the computing systems , or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined, to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines, processes, or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system  can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the group of servers in set of resource servers  and\/or computing system in the computing systems . The cloud management system  can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers  and\/or computing system in the computing systems  indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm, for example, the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles, amounts of electronic memory, communications bandwidth, or applications or other software prepared to be served.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can maintain a VM record  of each virtual machine instantiated in the clouds  and . Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the VM record , or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally, the cloud management system  can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by each virtual machine in the VM record  and\/or inventory . The cloud management system  can maintain the VM record  in the repository .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can further store, track and manage a requester's identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software, hardware, and other resources. Each requester that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system  can track and configure specific actions that a requester can perform, such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources, configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications, submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host, manage other requesters of the virtual machines or other resources, and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system  can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking, billing, and auditing of the services consumed by the requester. In embodiments, the cloud management system  can for example meter the usage and\/or duration of the virtual machines, to generate subscription billing records for a requester that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.","The cloud management system  can configure each virtual machine to be made available to requester and\/or users of the one or more networks  and\/or  via a browser interface, or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system  and the underlying registered set of resource servers  and\/or computing systems  via a standard Web application programming interface (API), or via other calls or interfaces. The instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other, as well as other sites, servers, locations, and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks, whether within a given cloud  or  or between clouds.","It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front-end can be used to view and operate the instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal, the processing, memory, communications, storage, and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the clouds  and . In embodiments, the virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the requester's own on-premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments, a requester can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off-premise basis, for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.","Because the cloud management system  in one regard specifies, builds, operates and manages the virtual machines on a logical level, the requester can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real-time or near real-time basis, without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The requester's virtual machines, processes, or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on-demand basis, if desired. In embodiments, the various sets of computing resources that are accessed by the cloud management system  to support the virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted, over time. The type and operating characteristics of the virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant, since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.","In terms of network management of the virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated, the cloud management system  can perform various network management tasks including security, maintenance, and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system  of a given cloud  or  can, for example, install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system  can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines, and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system  can likewise manage the virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis, for instance, to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible. Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with external network management systems to coordinate the network management functions and processes.","In embodiments, more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same, overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system  can, in such implementations, build, launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers  or computing systems , with populations of different sets of virtual machines such as may be requested by different requesters. The cloud management system  can institute and enforce security protocols in the clouds  and  hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub-cloud of the resources of the clouds  and\/or . The cloud management system  of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub-clouds, or isolate individual workloads\/processes within the cloud to a specific sub-cloud. The subdivision of the clouds  and\/or  into distinct transient sub-clouds or other sub-components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing multiple requesters or a multi-tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple requesters scenario, each of the multiple requesters can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other requesters of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments, sub-clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources, if desired.","In embodiments, the instantiated virtual machines supported by the cloud  can also interact with instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in the cloud  or other clouds and vice versa. The cloud management system  of clouds  and  can interface with the cloud management system of other clouds, to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and\/or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis.","As described above, the cloud management system  can instantiate and manage the virtual machines instantiated in the clouds  and . In embodiments, the instantiation and management of virtual machines can be performed by virtual machine (VM) managers separate from the cloud management system . The cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with the separate VM managers in order to provide the VM managers with the computing resources available in the clouds  and . The cloud management system  can be configured to communicate and cooperate with the VM managers regardless of the virtualization scheme used by the VM managers.","In the foregoing and other embodiments, the requester making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person, customer, subscriber, administrator, corporation, organization, or other entity. In embodiments, the requester can be or include another virtual machine, application or process. In further embodiments, multiple requesters and\/or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","102","106","102","106","104","102","104","106"]},"As shown in , the cloud management system  can be coupled to a network  to communicate with computing systems  to provide management services for the ad-hoc cloud . The ad-hoc cloud  can be composed of a variety of computing resources that may not be dedicated to a cloud but can have available computing resources to contribute to the cloud . For example, a corporation or university can have a large number of computing resources that support a variety of process (email, websites, individual user computing, and the like). The corporation or university can utilize the available excess computing resources to support the ad-hoc cloud .","In embodiments, as shown in , the ad-hoc cloud  can be supported by the computing systems  For example, the computing systems  can include a variety of systems such as a set of servers  and  and standalone user computing systems  and . The computing systems  can include hardware resources, such as processors, memory, network hardware, storage devices, and the like, and software resources, such as operating systems (OS), application programs, and the like.","In embodiments, to manage and support the ad-hoc cloud , the cloud management system  can be configured to identify the computing resources of the computing systems . The cloud management system  can be configured to include a network management agent  that is capable of querying the computing systems  to determine the hardware and software resources. For example, the network management agent  can be configured to transmit an identification query  to the computing systems  via network  and receive a response  identifying the computing resources of the computing system . Likewise, the network management agent  can be configured to directly examine the computing system  to determine the computing resources. The network management agent  can be configured to include the necessary logic, routines, instruction, and commands to communicate with the computing systems  in order to identify the computing resources of the computing systems .","In embodiments, the network management agent  can be implemented as a portion of the code for the cloud management system . Likewise, the network management agent  can be implemented as a separate software tool accessible by the cloud management system . The network management agent  can be written in a variety of programming languages, such as JAVA, C++, Python code, and the like to accommodate a variety of operating systems, machine architectures, etc. Additionally, the network management agent  can be configured to include the appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs) to communicate with and cooperate with other components of the cloud management server .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with an external network management system  in order to determine the computing resources of the computing systems . The cloud management system  can be configured to send a request to the network management system  to identify the computing resources. The network management system  can be configured to transmit the identification query  to the computing systems  via network , to receive a response  identifying the computing resources of the computing system , and to provide the identified computing resources to the cloud management system .","In embodiments, the network management system  can be any type of network management application or tool to securely communicate with the computing systems , to monitor the state of the computing systems , to retrieve and request data from the computing systems , and to manage and direct the computing systems . For example, the network management system  can be a \u201cFUNC\u201d server as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/130,424, filed May 30, 2008, entitled \u201cSYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR REMOTE MANAGEMENT OF NETWORKED SYSTEMS USING SECURE MODULAR PLATFORM\u201d (U.S. Pat. No. 20090300180) assigned to Red Hat, Inc., the disclosure of which is incorporated herein, in its entirety, by reference.","In embodiments, in order to aid in identifying the computing resources, the computing systems  can include a resource monitoring agent. For example, as illustrated in , the user computing system  can include a resource monitoring agent . The resource monitoring agent  can be configured to identify the computing resources of the user computing system . The resource monitoring agent  can provide the identification of the computing resources to the cloud management system  and\/or network management system . The resource monitoring agent  can be configured to include the necessary logic, routines, instruction, and commands to communicate with the hardware and software resources of the computing systems  in order to identify the computing resources of the computing systems .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  and\/or network management system  can be configured to identify both the hardware and software resources of the computing systems  and which of those resources are available for use in the cloud. The cloud management system  can be configured to identify the hardware resources such as type and amount of processing power, type and amount of memory, type and amount of storage, type and amount of network bandwidth and the like, of the computing systems . Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to identify the software resources, such as type of OS, application programs, and the like, of the computing systems .","In embodiments, when identifying the computing resources, the cloud management system  and\/or network management system  can be configured to identify the usage and availability of the computing system . For example, the computing systems  can be supporting other processes outside the ad-hoc cloud  and\/or virtual machines in the ad-hoc cloud . The cloud management system  and\/or network management system  can be configured to identify both the type and total amount of hardware and software resources as well as those currently available for use in the ad-hoc cloud .","In embodiments, once the computing resources have been identified, the cloud management system  can be configured to store an identification of the available resources in the inventory  in the repository . The repository  can be any type of structure configured to store information, such as a database. The repository  can be maintained in a computer readable storage device or medium whether local to or remote from the cloud management system .","In embodiments, the inventory  can be configured to include information that identifies the computing systems  and information identifying the computing resources available. The computing systems  can be identified by unique identifiers such as, for instance, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses or other addresses. For example, each system , , , and  can have a unique identifier. In the inventory , the cloud management system  can associate, with each unique identifier, the computing resources available on that computing system. The inventory  can include the type and total amount of hardware and software resources and the type and amount of available hardware and software resources.","In embodiments, once the computing resources have been identified, the cloud management system  can be configured to classify the computing systems  into \u201cvirtual groups.\u201d The \u201cvirtual group\u201d can specify a particular usage (type of virtual machine, application of the virtual machine, function of the virtual machine, and the like) of the computing resources and the ad-hoc cloud . For example, the cloud management system  can set up a \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  for web servers. The cloud management system  can classify the computing systems  for the web server \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  based on which computing resources are best suited for web servers, for example, the set of servers  and user computing system . Likewise, the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the specifications (type and amount of computing resources) of the computing resources required. For example, the cloud management system  can create a \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  for high power computing users. The cloud management system  can assign computing systems  to \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  that can adequately support computing intensive virtual machines, for example, the set of servers .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can maintain the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d in the group record  in repository . The group record  can include the identification of the groups, different requesters associated with the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d, identification of the computing systems  associated with the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d, and a reference to the inventory  to identify the available computing resources. Likewise, the group record  can be included as part of the inventory , for example, each computing system  can be associated with one or more \u201cvirtual groups\u201d it is supporting.","In embodiments, once the computing resources have been identified and classified, the cloud management system  can be configured to receive instantiation requests from requesters to instantiate virtual machines in the ad-hoc cloud . The cloud management system can be configured to receive specifications, in the instantiation requests, of the cloud usage. The specifications can include how the requester plans to use the cloud  (mail server, application server, web server, etc.) and\/or specific requirements for the computing resources (amount of processing power, amount of memory, amount of storage, amount of bandwidth, etc.). The cloud management system  can be configured to utilize the specifications from the requester and the inventory  of available computing resources to determine which cloud resources to devote to the requester's virtual machines to maximize the computing resources and meet the requester's specifications.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to determine if the request belongs to a particular \u201cvirtual group\u201d or determine a \u201cvirtual group\u201d with which the requester can be assigned. The cloud management system  can determine if a requester belongs to a particular group by accessing and examining the group record . The cloud management system  can examine the group record  for the requester's identification and assigned group if included in the group record .","In embodiments, for example, the cloud management system  can receive an instantiation request  from \u201crequester A\u201d . The instantiation request  can include the identity as \u201crequester A\u201d and can include the specifications of the cloud usage. The cloud management system  can search the group record  for the identity \u201crequester A\u201d. For example, the group record  can indicate that \u201crequester A\u201d  is associated with the \u201cvirtual group A\u201d . Accordingly, the cloud management system  can assign computing resources from the computing systems  and  associated with the \u201cvirtual group A\u201d .","In embodiments, if the group record  does not identify the requester, the cloud management system  can assign a \u201cvirtual group\u201d to the requester. The cloud management system  can assign a \u201cvirtual group\u201d based on the specifications received from the requester. The cloud management system  can assign the \u201cvirtual group\u201d based on how the requester plans to use the resources or the specific computing resources required or requested.","In embodiments, for example, the cloud management system  can receive an instantiation request  from \u201crequester B\u201d . The instantiation request  can include the identity as \u201crequester B\u201d and can include the specifications of the cloud usage. The cloud management system  can search the group record  for the identity \u201crequester B\u201d. For example, the group record  can indicate that \u201crequester B\u201d  is not associated with a \u201cvirtual group\u201d. As such, the cloud management system  can assign a \u201cvirtual group\u201d based on the instantiation request . For example, the instantiation request  can indicate that the \u201crequester B\u201d  requires a significant amount of processing power and memory to support the requested virtual machine. This can be explicitly included in the instantiation request  or determined by the cloud management system by examining the requested usage. Because the \u201crequester B\u201d  requires significant computing resources, the cloud management system  can assign the \u201crequester B\u201d  to the \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  for high power computing users. Accordingly, the cloud management system  can assign computing resources from the computing systems  associated with the \u201cvirtual group B\u201d .","In embodiments, once the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d have been identified, the cloud management system  can determine the specific computing systems  in the \u201cvirtual group\u201d and\/or the specific computing resources to allocate to the requester's virtual machine. The cloud management system  can examine the inventory  to determine which computing systems  and computing resources are available and meet the specifications of the instantiation request. For instance, the cloud management system can examine the inventory  to determine which computing systems  and computing resources are available and match or most closely match the specifications of the instantiation request.","In embodiments, for example, the \u201crequester A\u201d , which is a member of the \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  includes in the instantiation request  a particular specification for the computing resources (particular OS, particular amount of processor power, memory, or bandwidth, and\/or other specification). The cloud management system  can examine the inventory  to determine which computing systems , in the \u201cvirtual group A\u201d , have the computing resources available that match or best match the instantiation request . For example, the cloud management system  can examine the inventory  and determine that user computing system  matches the instantiation request . As such, the cloud management system  can allocate the user computing system  or a portion of the computing resources to the instantiation request .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to update the inventory  and group record . For example, as computing resources are allocated, the cloud management system can be configured to update the inventory  to reflect allocation or de-allocation of computing resources. Likewise, as the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d are assigned, the cloud management system  can be configured to update the group record  to reflect computing systems  assigned or removed from the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d and\/or requesters assigned or removed from the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d. Additionally, the cloud management system  and\/or network management system  can be configured to periodically query the computing system  to update the availability of computing resources. The cloud management system  can be configured to update the inventory  and group record  to reflect these updates.","In embodiments, once computing system  and computing resources have been allocated, the cloud management system  can be configured to instantiate the virtual machines as specified in the instantiation request, as described above in . The cloud management system  can be configured to utilize any type of virtualization scheme to instantiate the virtual machines on the computing system . Likewise, the cloud management system  can utilize different type of virtualization schemes on different ones of the computing systems , for instance, depending on which scheme can be supported by a particular computing system . The cloud management system  can maintain the VM record  of each virtual machine instantiated in the ad-hoc cloud . Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the VM record . Additionally, the cloud management system  can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by each virtual machine in the VM record  and\/or inventory . The cloud management system  can maintain the VM record  in the repository .","In embodiments, the instantiation and management of virtual machines can be performed by the cloud management system . Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with one or more VM managers  separate from the cloud management system . The cloud management system  can be configured to communicate with the separate VM managers  in order to provide the VM managers  with the computing resources allocated to a particular virtual machines and the VM managers  can be configured to instantiate the virtual machines on the allocated computing resources. The cloud management system  can be configured to communicate and cooperate with the VM managers  regardless of the virtualization scheme used by the VM managers . For example, the VM managers  can be a variety of different VM managers supporting virtualization schemes such as Xen, Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM), VMware, mainframe ZVM, and the like.","In exemplary embodiments as described above, the computer systems  included in the \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  and the \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  do not overlap. One skilled in the art will realize that the computer systems  included in the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can overlap. That is, one of more of the computer system  can be included in one or more of the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","104","106","120","122","300","302","304","308","308","302","310","126","302","306","120","122"]},"Processor  also communicates with the cloud management system , to execute control logic and allow perform the management processes as described above and below. Other configurations of the computing system , associated network connections, and other hardware and software resources are possible.","While  illustrates the computing system  as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software, the computing system  can include multiple systems operating in cooperation. The cloud management system  can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the computing system , as illustrated, or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise, the cloud management system  can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. Further, the cloud management system  can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other management software applications and programs. In any example, the cloud management system  can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open-source computer language. When implemented as a software application or program code, the cloud management system  can be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as storage , accessible by the computing system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404","102","110","106","102","110","102","208","210"]},"In , the cloud management system  can classify the computing systems  for supporting the ad-hoc cloud . For example, the cloud management system  can classify the computing systems  into \u201cvirtual groups.\u201d The \u201cvirtual group\u201d can specify a particular usage (type of virtual machine, application of the virtual machine, function of the virtual machine, and the like) of the computing resources and the ad-hoc cloud . For example, the cloud management system  can set up a \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  for web servers. The cloud management system  can classify the computing systems  for the web server \u201cvirtual group A\u201d  based on which computing resources are best suited for web servers, for example, the set of servers  and user computing system . Likewise, the \u201cvirtual groups\u201d can be based on the specifications (type and amount of computing resources) of the computing resources required. For example, the cloud management system  can create a \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  for high power computing users. The cloud management system  can assign computing systems  to \u201cvirtual group B\u201d  that can adequately support computing intensive virtual machines, for example, the set of servers .","In , the cloud management system  can receive a request to instantiate a virtual machine in the ad-hoc cloud . The cloud management system  can receive specifications, in the instantiation requests, of the cloud usage. The specifications can include how the requester plans to use the ad-hoc cloud  (mail server, application server, web server, etc.) and\/or specific requirements for the computing resources (amount of processing power, amount of memory, amount of storage, amount of bandwidth, etc.).","In , the cloud management system  can identify the computing systems  to allocate to the requester's virtual machine. For example, the cloud management system  can determine the specific computing systems  in the \u201cvirtual group\u201d and\/or the specific computing resources to allocate to the requester's virtual machine. The cloud management system  can examine the inventory  to determine which computing systems  and computing resources are available and meet the specifications of the instantiation request. For instance, the cloud management system can examine the inventory  to determine which computing systems  and computing resources are available and match or most closely match the specifications of the instantiation request.","In , the cloud management system  can allocate the selected computing systems  and computing resources to the virtual machine. For example, the cloud management system  can directly instantiate the virtual machine on the selected computer systems  and computer resources, or the computer system can communicate with one or more VM managers  to instantiate the virtual machines. The cloud management system  can also update the inventory  to indicate the allocation of the computer systems  and the computer resources. Then, in , the process can end, but the process can return to any point and repeat.","Certain embodiments may be performed as a computer application or program. The computer program may exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example, the computer program can exist as software program(s) comprised of program instructions in source code, object code, executable code or other formats; firmware program(s); or hardware description language (HDL) files. Any of the above can be embodied on a computer readable medium, which include computer readable storage devices and media, and signals, in compressed or uncompressed form. Exemplary computer readable storage devices and media include conventional computer system RAM (random access memory), ROM (read-only memory), EPROM (erasable, programmable ROM), EEPROM (electrically erasable, programmable ROM), and magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Exemplary computer readable signals, whether modulated using a carrier or not, are signals that a computer system hosting or running the present invention can be configured to access, including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of executable software program(s) of the computer program on a CD-ROM or via Internet download. In a sense, the Internet itself, as an abstract entity, is a computer readable medium. The same is true of computer networks in general.","While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular, although the method has been described by examples, the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincluding\u201d, \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d As used herein, the term \u201cone or more of\u201d with respect to a listing of items such as, for example, A and B, means A alone, B alone, or A and B. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various features of the embodiments can be more fully appreciated, as the same become better understood with reference to the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in connection with the accompanying figures, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
