---
title: Governing the transfer of physiological and emotional user data
abstract: Apparatus and articles of manufacture are provided for governing the transfer of data characterizing a user's behavior, physiological parameters and/or psychological parameters. One embodiment provides a computer readable storage medium containing a program which, when executed, performs an operation for handling a request, from a requesting application, for emotion data characterizing an emotional state of a user. A firewall ruleset defining rules governing the transfer of the emotion data to requesting applications is accessed to determine whether to provide the emotion data the requesting application. The request is denied if the firewall ruleset rules are not satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08132229&OS=08132229&RS=08132229
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08132229
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090602
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation of co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/821,159, filed Apr. 8, 2004, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to a data processing and, more particularly, to governing the transfer of data characterizing a user's behavior, physiological parameters and\/or psychological parameters.","2. Description of the Related Art","Generally, users view computers as relatively passive machines having a low level of initiative and merely responding to user requests and input. However, more recently, significant attention has been given to enhancing human-computer interaction (HCI). In particular, engineers and scientists seek to capitalize off of basic human attributes, such as voice, gaze, gesture and emotional state, in order to improve HCI. The ability of a device to detect and respond to human emotions is known as \u201caffective Computing.\u201d For example, researchers at International Business Machines Corporation have measured heart rate, temperature, galvanic skin response and minute body movements of test subjects and then matched those measurements with emotional states, such as happiness, surprise, anger, fear, sadness and disgust. The researchers contemplate facilitating data acquisition by strategic placement of a variety of sensors in different locations or devices such as an office chair, keyboard, mouse, telephone grip. Over time, a computer can learn about a user's personality, emotions, likes and dislikes and even adapt itself accordingly. For example, depending upon a user's emotional state (e.g., tired, anxious or hurried) a computer may slow down or speed up the presentation of information. It is also possible that a computer configured for education may adapt its teaching style according its determination of a student's aptitude for learning.","However, while computers have the ability to determine users' emotions, users will certainly be adverse to the indiscriminate and uncontrolled distribution of raw mood data (i.e., raw data capable of being used to characterize a user's mood, such as heart rate, temperature, galvanic skin response, etc.) and\/or processed information indicating the users' moods and\/or emotions. Consider, for example, a telephone conference between two business partners. Such a medium of exchange will only allow the business partners to gauge the other's emotional state to a limited degree according to obvious voice inflections. With the current technologies described above, a more complete emotional profile for either or both of the partners may be determined and made available to the other partner. Consider another example in which users are engaged in online gaming (e.g. online poker). A player (human or computer) who is allowed unauthorized access to another player's emotions has a substantial advantage. Consider another example in which investigators perform unauthorized polygraphs via a communications network. Thus, technologies harvesting and\/or processing human emotions can result in substantial intrusions to individuals' privacy and are likely to be abused in a variety of ways.","Therefore, there is a need for methods and systems giving users control over the distribution of their computer-captured emotions.","The present invention generally provides apparatus and articles of manufacture for governing the transfer of data characterizing a user's behavior, physiological parameters and\/or psychological parameters.","One embodiment provides a computer readable storage medium containing a program which, when executed, performs an operation including receiving, from a requesting application, a request for data selected from: (i) emotion data characterizing an emotional state of a user; (ii) physiological data of the user; and (iii) a combination of the emotion data and physiological data. A firewall ruleset defining rules governing the transfer of the data to requesting applications is accessed to determine whether to provide the data to the requesting application. The request is denied if the firewall ruleset rules are not satisfied.","Another embodiment provides a computer including a source of emotion data characterizing an emotional state of a user and an emotion firewall. The emotion firewall is configured with an application programming interface defining a protocol for requesting the emotion data by applications; and a ruleset defining rules governing the transfer of the emotion data in response to requests by the applications. The emotion firewall is configured to determine whether to provide requested emotion data to a requesting application on the basis of the ruleset.","Yet another embodiment provides a computer including a source of physiological data of a user, the physiological data having been collected by at least one input device interfacing with the use, and an emotion firewall. The emotion firewall is configured with an application programming interface defining a protocol for requesting the physiological data by applications; and a ruleset defining rules governing the transfer of the physiological data in response to requests by the applications. The emotion firewall is configured to determine whether to provide requested physiological data to a requesting application on the basis of the ruleset.","The present invention provides a method, the apparatus and article of manufacture for controlling the distribution of data that, e.g., characterizes a user's emotional state or is capable of being used to characterize the user's emotional state and\/or describes a physiological parameter. A ruleset(s) is provided to regulate the distribution of the data to requesting applications. In order for an application to have access to the data, the relevant rules of the ruleset must be satisfied.","One embodiment of the invention is implemented as a program product for use with a computer system. The program(s) of the program product defines functions of the embodiments (including the methods described herein) and can be contained on a variety of signal-bearing media. Illustrative signal-bearing media include, but are not limited to: (i) information permanently stored on non-writable storage media (e.g., read-only memory devices within a computer such as CD-ROM disks readable by a CD-ROM drive); (ii) alterable information stored on writable storage media (e.g., floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard-disk drive); and (iii) information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium, such as through a computer or telephone network, including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the Internet and other networks. Such signal-bearing media, when carrying computer-readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention, represent embodiments of the present invention.","In general, the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention, may be part of an operating system or a specific application, component, program, module, object, or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by the native computer into a machine-readable format and hence executable instructions. Also, programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition, various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is used merely for convenience, and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and\/or implied by such nomenclature.","In the following, reference is made to embodiments of the invention. However, it should be understood that the invention is not limited to specific described embodiments. Instead, any combination of the following features and elements, whether related to different embodiments or not, is contemplated to implement and practice the invention. Furthermore, in various embodiments the invention provides numerous advantages over the prior art. However, although embodiments of the invention may achieve advantages over other possible solutions and\/or over the prior art, whether or not a particular advantage is achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of the invention. Thus, the following aspects, features, embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and, unless explicitly present, are not considered elements or limitations of the appended claims.","In general, embodiments of the invention can be implemented in any of a variety of hardware\/software configurations. A particular embodiment includes at least one client computer and at least one server computer. The client(s) and server(s) may be executing on a common machine or may be deployed in distributed environment in which the client(s) and server(s) communicate via a network (such as will be described below with respect to ). However, the client-server model is merely one model in which the present invention may be implemented, and persons skilled in the art will recognize other possibilities. Furthermore, embodiments of the present invention can apply to any appropriate hardware configuration, regardless of whether the computer systems are complicated, multi-user computing apparatus, single-user workstations, network appliances that do not have non-volatile storage of their own or handheld devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), pocket PCs, and mobile telephones. Further, it is understood that while reference may be made to particular software products, the invention is not limited to a particular software product, standard or version, nor to any particular programming language. Accordingly, persons skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is adaptable to other software products and that the invention is also adaptable to future versions of a particular software product as well as to other suitable software products presently unknown.","With reference now to the figures,  depicts a pictorial representation of a distributed data processing system  (also referred herein as a network environment) in which the present invention may be implemented. The distributed data processing system  contains a network , which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within distributed data processing system . The network  may include permanent connections, such as wire or fiber optic cables, or temporary connections made through telephone connections and may also include wireless connections. Generally, the network  may be implemented as a number of different types of networks, such as, for example, an intranet, a local area network (LAN), or a wide area network (WAN). In a particular embodiment, the network  is the Internet.","In the depicted example, a plurality of computers is connected to the network . The computers include server computers  and client computers . The client computers  may be, for example, personal computers or network computers and the server computers  may be, for example, database servers or web servers. In this context the terms \u201cserver\u201d and \u201cclient\u201d merely denote a primary function of the respective computers. That is, client computers typically issue requests to the server computers, which then respond to the requests. However, it is possible, and in fact contemplated, that the server computers  issue requests to the client computers . Both the client computers and the server computers may each host one or more applications. In the case of the client computers, typical applications include word processors, e-mail clients, calendars, Web browsers, etc. In the case of the server computers, typical applications include database applications, web applications and any of a variety of transaction applications. It is also possible that a given machine hosts both server programs and client programs.","It is understood that  is merely illustrative. Thus, the distributed data processing system  may include other forms of server systems (not shown), which also provide data to the client computers. For example, one form of a server system may comprise two or more servers that have been logically associated with each other or interconnected as a cluster. The distributed data processing system  may include additional servers, clients, and other devices not shown. In any case,  is intended as an example, and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.","For purposes of illustration, aspects of the invention will be described with respect to one computer , shown in , which may be a client computer (e.g., the client computer of ) or a server computer (e.g., the client computer of ). The computer  is equipped with a plurality of input devices  (some or all of which are also capable of output). In general, the input devices  are adapted for receiving input from a human operator  (user) and providing the input to other components of the computer . In the context of the present invention, the input of interest is any input characterizing a physiological parameter of the human operator  and\/or characterizing a manner of interaction between a particular input device and the human operator . Further, the input may be capable of being used to characterize the human operator's  emotional disposition. Examples of such input are provided below.","Examples of Input Data",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["Pulse","Eye movement","Brain activity","Body temperature","Blood pressure","Pressure of grip on mouse","Movement of mouse (erratic, smooth, consistent, etc.)","Typing speed","Typing patterns (erratic, smooth, consistent, etc.)","Typing pressure","Facial features","Perspiration","Body Movement"]}},"To this end, illustrative input devices include a keyboard, keypad, light-pen, touch-screen, track-ball, a mouse, a speech recognition unit and a camera. The input devices  preferably also include sensory devices of the kind configured to sense one or more of the human operator's  physiological (e.g., physical, biological and\/or chemical) attributes. For example, the sensory devices may include heart rate sensors, temperature sensors galvanic skin response sensors, pressure transducers and the like. The devices may also be implanted medical devices, such as implanted heart monitors. Non-limiting examples of specific devices are as follows:","Exemplary Input Devices",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":["IBM BlueEyes Project described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.almaden.ibm.com\/cs\/BlueEyes\/index.html\u201d","IBM Research Emotion Mouse described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.iha.bepr.ethz.ch\/pages\/leute\/zim\/emopapers\/ark-the emotion mouse.pdf\u201d","Grip-force detecting mouse described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.noldus.com\/events\/mb2000\/program\/abstracts\/haan de.html\u201d","PlayStation\u00ae 2 EyeToy (emotion detector in future release) described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.evetoy.com\/english\/index.html\u201d","Eyelink II developed at Haskins Laboratories described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.haskins.vale.edu\/haskins\/MISC\/Facilities\/EyeMovement.html\u201d","Brain Activity During Simulated Deception described at \u201chttp:\/\/www.uphs.upenn.edu\/trc\/conditioning\/neuroimage 15 2002.pdf\u201d"]}}}},"The devices  may each be supported by the appropriate device interfaces . The device interfaces  include any combination of hardware and software, such as adapters and drivers, necessary for communication between the devices  and other components of the computer .","In one embodiment, each of the input devices  capable of providing input pertaining to a physiological parameter of the user  and\/or that may be used to characterize an emotion or emotional state of the user  may be required to register with a registry . In the depicted embodiment, the registry  is shown as a component of an emotion firewall  (described in more detail below). However, the registry  may alternatively be, for example, a component of an operating system or application of the computer . Registering the input devices allows an emotion engine  and\/or emotion firewall  (both described below) to determiner what raw data can be collected and\/or disseminated. Additionally, registering the input devices allows for the configuration of data and parameters in the emotion firewall . For example, if a pulse measurement device is registered, then the emotion firewall  can provide this data to the user and can allow the user to use pulse measurements in the ruleset configuration (ruleset configuration is described below). In one embodiment, each of the registered devices is available to provide input to a data repository  in addition to the emotion engine  and\/or emotion firewall . The data repository  may be any form of storage for temporarily or persistently storing input from the input devices . For example, the data repository  may be a data structure or a database. The emotion engine  is any hardware, software or combination of hardware and software configured to process the input provided by the registered devices (either directly or from the data repository ) and characterize an emotion or emotional state of the user . The manner of such characterization may range from general to highly specific. For example, on the basis of input from the registered input devices  the emotion engine  may determine that the user  falls within a predefined \u201cnormal\u201d emotion category, thereby providing only a broad emotional status characterization. Alternatively, on the basis of the same or different input, the emotion engine  may determine that the user  as angry, sad, happy, nervous, excited, or even make a more specific clinical psychological diagnosis such as manic-depressive. In any case, techniques for quantifying or qualifying a human being's emotions on the basis of human-computer interaction are well-known. Accordingly, any known or unknown techniques for characterizing a human being's emotions are contemplated, and further elaboration is not necessary.","For purposes of describing embodiments of the invention, the raw input data (e.g., input described in the EXAMPLES OF INPUT DATA table above) that may be provided to emotion engine  is referred to herein as \u201cinput data\u201d and typically includes data that does not directly characterize an emotional attribute of the user . The output of the emotion engine  is referred to herein as \u201cemotion data\u201d and constitutes processed data characterizing an emotional attribute of the user . For convenience of description, input data and emotion data are collectively and separately referred to herein as \u201cmood data\u201d, or just \u201cdata\u201d. Accordingly, it is understood that a reference to \u201cmood data\u201d refers to either or both input data and emotion data, unless specifically indicated otherwise.","For various purposes, the mood data may then be made selectively available to one or more applications upon request. Such applications generally include remote applications  and local applications . Remote applications  are remotely located applications communicating with the client computer  via a network . Local applications are those applications executing on the computer , or on some form of a local bus.","As noted, the bases for the applications' request of mood data may be varied. For example, in one embodiment a web application may be configured to determine the emotional reaction of visitors to a web site to determine whether certain content is offensive, confusing, funny, or interesting. Real-time messaging applications could be enriched by being able to automatically display emoticons representing each user's emotions during a messaging session, making interactions more expressive. In the gaming industry, artificial intelligence could use the mood data to configure a videogame differently depending upon, for example, whether the player is scared, surprised or angry. Marketers could measure the effectiveness of online advertisements, such as pop-ups, according to the emotional reaction of viewers. The foregoing are merely illustrative uses of mood data by applications. Persons skilled in the art will recognize other uses and it is understood that all such uses, known or unknown, are within the scope of the present invention.","While a variety of uses for the mood data are possible, the user  may find indiscriminate distribution of the mood data undesirable and prefer to exert some degree of control over the distribution. To this end, the computer  is configured with the emotion firewall  with which the emotion engine  communicates. It is contemplated that the emotion firewall  may be a standalone entity or incorporated into a particular application. In any case, the emotion firewall  is generally configured to regulate the transfer of the mood data output by the emotion engine . Specifically, the emotion firewall  responds to requests from various applications (e.g., applications , ) for mood data and determines whether, and to what extent, the requests are complied with. In one embodiment, these functions are effected by configuring the emotion firewall  with one or more rulesets  and an application program interface (API) . In a multi-user environment different rulesets may be provided for each different user operating or accessing the computer. Such an embodiment may be particularly useful where the emotion firewall  resides on a central gateway computer providing access for a plurality of client computers (e.g., client computers  of ) to the outside world. The rulesets  generally specify restrictions on the distribution of mood data. It is also contemplated that the rulesets  implement other aspects of control over the mood data, such as distortion of the mood data in order to mask or augment certain emotional attributes.","In a particular embodiment, a ruleset parameter includes \u201cApplication Type\u201d. That is, the rulesets  may implement restrictions on the distribution of the mood data according to the type of application requesting the emotion data. In this context, \u201cApplication Type\u201d refers to a generic program category (e.g., messaging applications, word processors, browsers, etc.).","In another embodiment, a ruleset parameter includes \u201cSpecific Application\u201d. That is, the rulesets  may implement restrictions on the distribution of the mood data according to the specific application requesting the data, e.g., Lotus Development Corporation's Sametime\u00ae. Sametime\u00ae is a registered trademark of Lotus Development Corporation.","Another possible ruleset parameter is \u201cData Type\u201d, whereby the rulesets  may implement restrictions on the distribution of the mood data according to the particular type of the mood data being requested. For example, a specific data type ruleset parameter may specify that the emotion, anger, may not be provided to requesting applications.","Another possible ruleset parameter is \u201cData Value\u201d, whereby the rulesets  may implement restrictions on the distribution of the mood data according to the particular value of the emotion data being requested. For example, a specific data value ruleset parameter may specify that blood pressure readings may be provided to requesting applications only if the blood pressure reading has a value less than 140\/90.","Another possible ruleset parameter is \u201cTime of Day\u201d. Time of Day specifies a particular time or particular period of time during which the request(s) for mood data is received. For example, the ruleset may be configured to provide the requested data only if the request is received between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.","Another possible ruleset parameter is \u201cApplication Priority\u201d. Application Priority specifies, for example, a relative priority of an application with respect to other applications. A requesting application could also classify the importance of its own requests in order to distinguish requests that are more important than others. For instance, an instant messaging application might request user A's emotion data every 3 minutes but would classify this as low priority. In contrast, the application may classify an explicit user request as a higher priority.","Another possible ruleset parameter is \u201cApplications' Prior Requests\u201d. In one embodiment, this parameter is used in two ways: First, the parameter could be used in conjunction with Explicit User Authorization (See Table below). If the user denies a particular request multiple times, the emotion firewall could begin ignoring these specific requests altogether, rather than prompting the user each time. Second, the parameter could be used by the emotion firewall to identify surreptitious tactics. For instance, consider an application that is denied a request for \u201coverall mood\u201d but and then attempts to collect each individual raw data in order to construct the overall mood. This type of activity could set off a flag to the firewall to indicate suspicious intentions.","The foregoing ruleset parameter types, as well as additional parameter types, are provided in the table below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"ILLUSTRATIVE RULESET PARAMETERS"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PARAMETER TYPE","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Application Type","Specifies particular application types, e.g.,"]},{"entry":[{},"messaging application, web applications,"]},{"entry":[{},"etc."]},{"entry":["Specific Application","Specifies specific application, e.g.,"]},{"entry":[{},"Sametime\u2009\u00ae."]},{"entry":["Connection Type","Specifies the type of connection between"]},{"entry":[{},"applications or devices, e.g., secure or"]},{"entry":[{},"insecure."]},{"entry":["Mood\/Data Type","Specifies the specific type of mood data,"]},{"entry":[{},"e.g., angry, sad, blood pressure, etc."]},{"entry":["Data Value","Specifies a specific value for a specific"]},{"entry":[{},"mood type, e.g., a blood pressure reading"]},{"entry":[{},"140\/80."]},{"entry":["Requester\/Recipient","Specifies a specific user or group of users"]},{"entry":[{},"requesting the mood data, e.g., John"]},{"entry":[{},"Smith or Group 1 (which is defined to"]},{"entry":[{},"include selected family members, for"]},{"entry":[{},"example). Also may include IP address"]},{"entry":[{},"and\/or domain."]},{"entry":["Time of Day","Specifies a particular time or particular"]},{"entry":[{},"period of time during which the request(s)"]},{"entry":[{},"for mood data is received."]},{"entry":["Confidence Level","Specifies a degree of perceived"]},{"entry":[{},"confidence in the accuracy of particular"]},{"entry":[{},"emotion data output by the emotion"]},{"entry":[{},"engine."]},{"entry":["Application Priority","Specifies relative priority of an application"]},{"entry":[{},"with respect to itself or other applications."]},{"entry":["Explicit user Authorization","Specifies that an explicit user action is"]},{"entry":[{},"required to release the requested data,"]},{"entry":[{},"e.g., clicking \u201cOK\u201d button in a dialog box"]},{"entry":[{},"that is presented to the user after the"]},{"entry":[{},"request for data is received."]},{"entry":["Applications' Prior Requests","Used to handle reoccurring requests and"]},{"entry":[{},"used to identify \u201chacking\u201d."]},{"entry":["Credibility Level","Specifies a credibility level of the"]},{"entry":[{},"application that may be assigned by a third"]},{"entry":[{},"party or a user."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The foregoing ruleset parameter types are merely illustrative, and persons skilled in the art will recognize other parameter types. Further, is contemplated that a given ruleset may define rules based on a combination of different parameter types. For example, a specific ruleset may specify that blood pressure readings may be provided only to an authenticated health monitoring application. Another ruleset may specify that the emotion, anger, may only be provided to messaging applications where the users of the messaging applications are John Smith and Janet Smith.","In one embodiment, the rulesets  are user configurable through a configuration user interface . The user interface  may be, for example, a graphical user interface providing the user with a rich environment of features and functions (e.g., menus, buttons, wizards, etc.) facilitating configuration of the rulesets . Referring briefly to , a flowchart illustrating one method  for creating a ruleset is shown. The user  desiring to create a ruleset first invokes the configuration user interface  (step ), such as by double-clicking on the appropriate icon of a desktop environment. The configuration user interface  is then displayed to the user  (step ) who can then make the desired selections using input devices (e.g. the input devices  of the computer  shown in ). Illustrative selections include specifying any of the ruleset parameters given in the TABLE above. The selections are received (step ) and applied to create the appropriate ruleset (step ).","It is also contemplated that the ruleset  may be configured by an application or an operating system. For example, using the API, an application could set up particular rules upon installation. Accordingly, when a program such as Instant Messaging is installed, the application could set up basic default rulesets.","Having configured the ruleset , the ruleset  can then be applied to incoming requests from the remote applications  and the local applications . In one embodiment, the ruleset  is applied by a firewall manager . Specifically, on the basis of the ruleset , the firewall manager  determines whether requested mood data will be provided to the requesting application. In one embodiment, the firewall manager  is a software component that receives requests compliant with the API  and then accesses the ruleset  to determine whether the applicable rules are satisfied. To this end, the API  defines an appropriate protocol for requesting mood data. The API protocol may define, for example, the type of information that can be exchanged between the firewall  and a requesting application. For example, the API  may allow applications to request (i) emotion data, i.e., information characterizing the user's  emotion(s) as determined by the emotion engine ; (ii) a confidence level in a particular emotion data (as defined above in the TABLE); and (iii) a specific physiological parameter (e.g., blood pressure readings). The API  may also allow, or require, applications to specify a priority level (as defined above in the TABLE) and\/or specific requester information such as the requesting user (e.g., John Smith) and the type of application. In one embodiment, the API  implements the registration of the input devices  with the emotion firewall . Of course, the foregoing aspects of the API  are merely illustrative and persons skilled in the art will recognize other aspects which may be implemented.","Referring now to , a flow chart of a method  is shown illustrating one embodiment for operating the computer , after the firewall  is configured with one or more appropriate rulesets . For illustration, the method  is assumed to start when the computer is powered up and initiates a boot sequence, but may also be entered at other times after booting up. At step , the input devices  are registered with the registry . Registration of the input devices  may occur, for example, during initialization of the devices. At step , a connection is established with one or more requesting applications  (e.g., any of the remote applications  and\/or local applications ). It is contemplated that the connection maybe made, according to the API , through a dedicated port or an existing port. In one embodiment, each requesting application is registered (e.g., with the registry ) as a mood data requester, at step . The emotion firewall  then begins receiving requests (at step ) from the applications , wherein the requests conform to the API . For a given received request, the firewall manager  accesses (at step ) the appropriate ruleset . The firewall manager  then determines (at step ) whether the conditions of the ruleset  are satisfied. In this context, a determination that the ruleset conditions are \u201csatisfied\u201d only ensures that some form of mood data will be provided to the requesting application, not that the particular mood data being requested will be provided. For example, it was noted above that the ruleset  may specify some form of distortion or control be implemented with respect to the mood data being provided to the requesting application. An example of control in this regard is restricting the mood data provided to the requesting application to a subset of the data being requested. Accordingly, the firewall manager  performs any necessary processing of the mood data (at step ) prior to sending the mood data (at step ) to the requesting application. If, however, the ruleset conditions are not satisfied (at step ), then no form of mood data will be provided to the requesting application and the firewall manager  sends a response (at step ) denying the request.","The foregoing describes embodiments of an emotion firewall for regulating the transmission of mood data to requesting applications. As such, the emotion firewall may be considered a middleware product residing between a source of the mood data and the requesting applications. While particular embodiments have been described, the invention is not limited to these embodiments and persons skilled in the art will recognize other embodiments within the scope of the invention. For example,  shows an emotion engine  residing \u201cbehind\u201d the emotion firewall . However, it is contemplated that the emotion engine  may alternatively be on the other side of the firewall, e.g., residing on a remote server such as the server computer shown in . Embodiments are also contemplated in which no emotion engine is provided, and the emotion firewall  regulates only the transmission of \u201craw\u201d data such as physiological data including blood pressure, pulse, etc. Persons skilled in the art will recognize still other embodiments.","While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention, other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof, and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["So that the manner in which the above recited features, advantages and objects of the present invention are attained and can be understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention, briefly summarized above, may be had by reference to the embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended drawings.","It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
