---
title: Submarine mast antenna controller
abstract: The present invention is a submarine mast antenna controller for controlling a plurality of functions performed by an antenna mast of a submarine. The submarine mast antenna controller is a solid state electronic control unit on a single card that monitors various submarine mast antenna system sensors and motors, and controls electromechanical devices associated with the sensors and improves functionality over the former ACU system by consolidating control interfaces and indicators in one computer terminal via a VXI interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08063838&OS=08063838&RS=08063838
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08063838
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090313
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a submarine mast antenna system and more particularly, to a control device for controlling the submarine antennas, monitoring a variety of sensors and providing control signals to electromechanical devices.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Typically, a submarine has an antenna mast proximate but outside its pressure hull. The antenna mast has several antennas mounted thereon. Numerous electromechanical components such as servomotors and relays are positioned inside the antenna mast. Currently, the antennas have antenna control units (ACUs) for electromechanical control of tuning, pre-amplification, and band selection settings. An electromechanical synchro-resolver, light bulb, or other indicator is positioned inside the submarine to monitor and provide feedback for the antenna and components mounted in the antenna mast. This ACU is a bulky, expensive, and heavy electromechanical device that requires manual activation of buttons and switches to operate it.","There is a need for a device and system that consolidates the indicators and manual activation buttons and switches of the ACU to a single computer terminal. Further, there is a need for a device and system that controls the various functions of the antenna mast components. Finally, there is a need for a solid-state electronic control unit that has improved functionality and is simpler to use.","Accordingly, the present invention is a submarine mast antenna controller. The submarine mast antenna controller is a solid state electronic control unit on a single card that monitors various submarine mast antenna system sensors and motors, and controls electromechanical devices associated with the sensors and improves functionality over the former ACU system by consolidating control interfaces and indicators in one computer terminal via a VXI interface. In order for the submarine mast antenna controller to function properly, electromagnetic interference between the mast and the VXI interface must be kept to a minimum by isolating the mast electrical ground from the submarine mast antenna controller chassis ground.","A block diagram of an antenna system  for use on a submarine (not shown) is illustrated in . Included in the antenna system is the outboard mast  containing the submarine mast antennas and the support chassis  containing hardware components such as the HF, UHF, GPS, etc. diplexer, RF power sensors, a motor control board, and an alternating current power source. The submarine mast antenna controller  of the present invention, also shown in , is intended to control the antennas and hardware components described above contained in the antenna system  and receive indicators associated with the function of the antennas and hardware components. The submarine mast antenna controller  is a solid state electronic control unit on a single card that is electrically connected to the antenna system via two bidirectional connections, a thirty seven pin connector P and a nine pin connector P. The submarine mast antenna controller  is also electrically connected to a digital processing computer terminal  via a VME Extension for Instrumentation (VXI) bus . The computer terminal  provides a user interface  to issue control signals and display antenna system indicators to a user. For example in a preferred embodiment some of the antennas in the antenna system  can be tuned. The ability to tune the antennas is controlled by the submarine mast antenna controller  relying on tuning control signals issued at the user interface . Control signals from the submarine mast antenna controller  flow across the two bidirectional connections P and P while indicators flow back across the same connections. In the preferred embodiment, the connection P functions as an interlock connection. It is part of a safety circuit to prevent the antenna system transmitter from turning on if the antenna is not ready to broadcast.","Referring to , the submarine mast antenna controller  is divided into three functional sections including: 1) the mast function control ; 2) the mast indicator read back ; and 3) the VXI interface . The mast function control  section of the submarine mast antenna controller  receives a series of signals from the P and P connectors. These signals are routed to a group of double pole double throw non-latching relays. In a preferred embodiment there are eleven such relays K through K. Each of the relays K through K is assigned a control function and the relay positions can be read back. Several relays directly control the mast antenna functions, while other relays control the tuning motors. In the preferred embodiment, at least two relays control a redirection relay in the antenna system .","The mast indicator read back  is further divided into two functional sections: the digital read back circuit  reads back digital indicators and analog read back circuit  reads back analog indicators. In the preferred embodiment there are three digital (boolean) indicator lines that are read back and six analog indicator lines that are read back originating from the antenna system . The digital and analog indicator signals proceed from P and P. To avoid having the return line on the antenna system  connect to the submarine's electrical ground, in order to avoid electromagnetic interference problems, all of the indicator lines coming from the antenna system  (both digital and analog) are electrically isolated from submarine's electrical ground. This is accomplished by means of isolator circuits. The submarine mast antenna controller  uses an optical isolation network comprised of photo emitting and photo-detector integrated circuits that are described below.","Referring to  there is illustrated the digital read back circuit . Each of the three digital indicator signals D, D, and D indicating a status in the antenna system, is fed to a light emitting diode . Proximate to the light emitting diode  is a photo-detecting transistor  that is able to optically detect the emitted light emanating from light emitting diode  corresponding to a logical one if the light is emanating and zero if the light is not emanating. The photo-detecting transistor  indicates the digital signal while electrically isolating the antenna system  from the electronics of the VXI interface . The inverters  restore the logic levels to their correct state, as the isolation circuit used has the side-effect of inverting the indicator signal. The digital indicator signals D, D, and D are read back to the VXI interface.","The analog indicator signals are read back via a 12-bit scanning analog-to-digital (A to D) converter  as shown in the analog read back circuit  in . Analog indicator signals A through A are operatively connected and provided to an analog multiplexer . A clock  provides a sequential signal for synchronizing the analog read back circuit . A counter  receives the clock  signal and converts it into a control signal identifying each analog indicator signal A-A sequentially. The analog multiplexer  receives the counter  signal, which identifies which analog indicator signal A-A to provide as its output. The analog multiplexer  driven by counter  selects one of the analog indicator signals A-A for conversion each clock cycle. The analog multiplexer  passes the signal through isolation amplifier  and on to the actual A to D converter , which is preferably an AD1674 12-bit converter. Isolation amplifier  precludes jitters and changes from affecting the A to D converter . The A to D converter  receives the isolated analog multiplexer  output and converts it into a digital signal. A timing conversion  is provided to add the necessary delays to the timing signal to account for analog read back circuit  delays. The timing conversion  produces time Tand T. Tis provided to the A to D converter , and Tis provided to a register selector . The register selector  output coordinates the selection of an input signal at the analog multiplexer  with an output of the A to D converter  so the converted signal is received in the appropriate register (, , , , , or ). In the preferred embodiment, the register selector  signal provides a command line for each register (-) or group of registers that receives the output.","The A to D converter  draws power from a power isolation circuit  that comprises a DC-to-DC converter (and their supporting filters). The A to D converter  works off the free-running 650 Hz clock  signal, which drives counter .","Both the 12-bit digital output from the A to D converter  and the 6-bit digital output from register selector  are electrically isolated via the optical isolator . Referring now to  there is illustrated the circuit diagram for the optical isolator . Each of the twelve digital signals from the 12-bit digital output as well as the six digital signals from the 6-bit register select output are fed to a light emitting diode . Proximate to the light emitting diode  is a photo-detecting transistor  that is able to optically detect the emitted light emanating from light emitting diode  corresponding to a logical one if the light is emanating and zero if the light is not emanating. The photo-detecting transistor  indicates the digital signal while electrically isolating the electronics of the antenna system  with the electronics of the VXI interface . The inverters  restore the logic levels to their correct state, as the isolation circuit used has the side-effect of inverting the indicator signal.","The 12-bit digital output is then passed to the appropriate tri-state register (-), which is preferably a 74LS374s register. The register selector  controls and determines which register (-) the 12-bit digital output is passed to. The scanning A to D converter  may be used with additional registers to read up to 16 analog signals. The registers (-) are operatively connected to receive data from the optically isolated A to D Converter  12-bit digital output when the register is activated by the register selector  signal for that register (-). Multiple registers (-) may be joined to receive portions of the optically isolated A to D Converter  digital output. The registers - make the status signal from each component available to the VXI interface .","The third functional section of the submarine mast antenna controller , the VXI interface , is illustrated in . It has two open collector Darlington arrays  and  that drive the relays K through K in the mast function control  portion of the submarine mast antenna controller . The Darlington arrays are driven by registers  and  as well as the interlock routing provided by connector P. The VXI interface  has three bus transceivers , , and  to handle the analog and digital read back signals as well as indicator signals from relays K through K. There are two decoder\/demultiplexers,  and  that handle signals to and from the registers and bus transceivers. The VXI interface  has two 96-pin right-angle connectors, P and P, that are defined in accordance with the VXI Specification. The VXI interface includes an assembly, which is a register based daughter card  that implements all of the necessary interface and protocol functions in order to create a VXI register based device. Switches  and  on the VXI interface allow the user to select the logical address (which gives the base address of a register based device in the VXI memory space) and the interrupt level of the submarine mast antenna controller . Power supply filters  and  filter out unwanted transients in the +5V and +12V power supply lines coming from the VXI backplane connectors P and P. These power signals will be used to power the logic circuitry and the relays on the submarine mast antenna controller . An integrated circuit and its supporting resistors and capacitors form a pair of one-shots  and  to extend the width of the READ and WRITE pulses from the register based daughter card assembly  in order to ensure proper operation of the registers and bus transceivers elsewhere in the submarine mast antenna controller .","The VXI interface  connects to a computer terminal  across a VXI bus  and using a VXI protocol receives as inputs the series of TTL logic control and indicator lines that contain the control and indicator signals from the Mast Function Control  and the Mast Read Back . The control and indicator signals are passed to the computer terminal  where a user interface  gives access to all of the control functions and indicators to a user.","Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention, which is not to be limited except by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be better understood in view of the following description of the invention taken together with the drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
