---
title: Imaging multi-modality touch pad interface systems, methods, articles of manufacture, and apparatus
abstract: Certain examples provide systems, apparatus, articles of manufacture, and methods for medical device interface overlay. In an example, an article of manufacture includes an overlay for a clinical device touchscreen interface. The overlay includes a background surface formed to contact a touchscreen interface. The overlay also includes a plurality of touch areas formed in the background surface of the overlay device. Each of the plurality of touch areas is to provide a tactile boundary for a corresponding touchscreen interface function. The plurality of touch areas includes at least one of a plurality of openings and a plurality of recessed areas including a material thickness less than the material thickness of the background surface. The plurality of openings and the plurality of recessed areas allow user contact and interaction with the user interface underneath the overlay.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08421761&OS=08421761&RS=08421761
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08421761
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090826
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","MICROFICHE\/COPYRIGHT REFERENCE","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EXAMPLES"],"p":["[Not Applicable]","[Not Applicable]","[Not Applicable]","The present invention generally relates to medical device interfacing. In particular, the present invention relates to systems, apparatus, and methods for medical device interface overlays.","Many medical devices include touchscreen displays, such as liquid crystal displays (LCDs) with touchpads. The touchpads or other touchscreen are programmed to display certain options and generate a programmable callback in respect to a user touching a programmed shape on the interface. Callbacks are sent to the host computer through a universal serial bus (USB) and\/or other conventional interface. Thus, a graphical user interface (GUI) can be configured with a touchscreen to receive user input. However, the GUI interfaces lack feedback and tactile sensation for \u201cblind\u201d key location and require visual distraction from a user task at hand to locate and select an interface option.","For example, diagnostic imaging equipment provides information regarding human anatomy and functional performance presented via a large number of images in two- and three-dimensional interpretation. Diligent interpretation of these images requires following of a strict workflow; and each step of the workflow presumes presentation of an image on the screen in a certain order of a certain image series from one or more exams, along with application of certain tools for manipulation of the images (e.g., image scrolling, brightness\/contrast, linear and area measurements, etc.). Diagnostic reading software provides options for image manipulation and tooling, such as on-screen menus, toolbars, mouse clicks, and keyboard shortcuts. Graphical on-screen options require a defocusing of a user's gaze from the diagnostic image content to search for the proper graphical element, which is often located in remote location on the screen or even on another computer monitor. Similarly, selection of few applicable shortcut keys (e.g., 8-10) out of 104 standard keyboard keys also requires substantial distraction from analyzed visual content.","Thus, certain medical devices provide controls on a dedicated keypad with a limited number of keys arranged in ergonomic geometry for blind finger location (similar to blind locating of keys on a piano or strings on a guitar), shape (such as discerning between \u201cwhite\u201d and \u201cblack\u201d keys on the piano), and texture (such as \u201c-\u201d shaped bumps on \u201cF\u201d and \u201cJ\u201d keys on a computer keyboard to identify the home row). The specialized keyboard has a unique dedication to a certain application to optimize key functionality, position, shape and texture for the purpose of that particular application and associated workflow. Therefore, development and production of dedicated keyboards is limited to a narrow application and does not benefit from any \u201ceconomy of scale\u201d through mass production and wide application. Additionally, rapid changes in clinical technologies and methods result in corresponding rapid changes in clinical workflow, which require modification of the keyboard. While frequently redesigning keyboard and\/or other clinical interfaces quickly becomes cost prohibitive, keeping the keyboard unchanged substantially impairs its efficiency and reduces its usage. Further, providing dedicated keyboards renders them largely useless for a computer workstation running multiple clinical applications. Attaching multiple dedicated interface devices to a single workstation is impractical and clogs available desktop real estate.","Certain examples provide systems, apparatus, articles of manufacture, and methods for medical device interface overlay.","In an example, a medical touchscreen interface overlay device includes a background surface contacting a touchscreen interface. The background surface does not generate a response from the interface when contacted by a user. The interface overlay device also includes a plurality of touch areas formed in the background surface of the overlay device. The plurality of touch areas have a lesser thickness than the background surface. Each of the plurality of touch areas is to provide a tactile boundary for a corresponding touchscreen interface function, and each of the plurality of touch areas is formed in a shape representative of the corresponding touchscreen interface function. The overlay device is at least temporarily affixed to the touchscreen interface to facilitate user interaction with the touchscreen interface.","In an example, an article of manufacture includes an overlay for a clinical device touchscreen interface. The overlay includes a background surface formed to contact a touchscreen interface. The overlay also includes a plurality of touch areas formed in the background surface of the overlay device. Each of the plurality of touch areas is to provide a tactile boundary for a corresponding touchscreen interface function. The plurality of touch areas includes at least one of a plurality of openings and a plurality of recessed areas including a material thickness less than the material thickness of the background surface. The plurality of openings and the plurality of recessed areas allow user contact and interaction with the user interface underneath the overlay.","In an example, a touchscreen overlay apparatus includes an adhesive strip overlay for a clinical device touchscreen interface. The adhesive strip overlay includes a background surface with adhesive backing formed to contact a touchscreen interface and one or more touch areas formed in the background surface of the overlay device. The one or more touch areas include at least one recessed area and\/or at least one raised area to facilitate selection of functionality available on the clinical device touchscreen interface.","The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention, will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood, however, that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.","Although the following discloses example methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus including, among other components, software executed on hardware, it should be noted that such methods and apparatus are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example, it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware, exclusively in software, exclusively in firmware, or in any combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware. Accordingly, while the following describes example methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus, the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus.","When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and\/or firmware implementation, at least one of the elements is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory, a digital video disc (DVD), compact disc (CD), etc. storing the software and\/or firmware.","A multi-modality touchscreen (e.g., a touch pad, touch panel, touch switch, touch surface, gestural interface, dual touchscreen, and\/or other touchscreen) overlay is provided to customize a medical device touchscreen according to one or more criteria such as an application, an operation, a user, a group, and\/or other configuration. For example, many medical and other devices and\/or controls include a touchscreen to control operation of the device and\/or to provide feedback from the device. A touchscreen interface can display areas representing buttons, knobs, rulers, etc., for an input device, for example. An interface or overlay is provided with openings corresponding to the representing buttons, knobs, rulers, etc., for the touchscreen interface. Thus, the overlay can provide tactile feedback for a user to utilize the touchscreen interface more effectively (e.g., facilitating usability and user selection of interface options without looking at the touchscreen). For example, a touchpad with a liquid crystal display (LCD) background can be overlaid to provide tactile feedback. An overlay can be temporarily placed over the touchscreen, temporarily affixed to the touchscreen, permanently affixed to the touchscreen, etc. The touchscreen can be implemented in a variety of ways including a resistive touchscreen, a surface acoustic wave touchscreen, capacitive touchscreen, projected capacitance touchscreen, infrared touchscreen, strain gauge or force panel touchscreen, optical imaging touchscreen, dispersive signal touchscreen, acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen, etc.","Certain examples provide a novel technology allowing for easy and inexpensive production and configuration of highly customizable and versatile workflow-oriented keyboards and\/or keypads. Current examples provide a device including an LCD display with a touchpad overlay that can be programmed to display various shapes and generate one or more programmable callbacks in respect to touching each of programmed shapes. The callbacks are sent to a host computer through a connection such as a universal serial bus (USB) and\/or other conventional interface. The devices can be used for fast prototyping, customization and implementation of an application specific graphical user interface (GUI) by programming a layout of the on-screen shapes and attaching a standard keyboard ASCII code to provide a response upon touching of each programmed shape. The interface overcomes the problems of \u201cblind\u201d key location and visual distraction from content review by instrumenting the touchpad with a hardware (e.g., plastic) overlay that at least substantially covers unused surface area and exposes active touchpad buttons through punched and\/or otherwise opened shapes including but not limited to rectangles, triangles, strips circles, and other reasonable and adequate openings to help facilitate blind searching for keys. In addition to shape and position, \u201cblind location\u201d can be enhanced by adding various textures to different areas of the plastic cover and\/or a bumpy shape to the edges of the recessions in the overlay, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","10"]},"A plurality of triangular openings , , , and  define interface boundaries for directional controls, for example. That is, in an image review application, arrow  corresponds to functionality enabling a user to scroll forward for a next image in an image stack. Triangle  corresponds to functionality enabling a user to scroll backwards for a previous image in the image stack. Opening  provides a tactile boundary for a touchscreen function allowing a user to return to a previous image series. Opening  provides a tactile boundary for a touchscreen function allowing a user to progress to a next image series. Areas  and  help define options for zooming in  and zooming out  in an image and\/or other display. Arrows  and  define areas allowing a user to proceed to a next workflow step  and\/or roll back to a previous workflow step . Area  corresponds to an exit option allowing a use to exit an application, for example. Slider area  corresponds to slider functionality increasing and\/or decreasing brightness. Similarly, slider area  corresponds to slider functionality increasing and\/or decreasing contrast. Area  provides tactile feedback to locate touchscreen functionality allowing a user to pan an image following user finger motion",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","10","20","31","32","20","20","23","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["31","10","20","32","30","30","32","31","31","32","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","41","44","42","43","41","44","43","41","44","43","42","41","41","41","44","42"]},"In some examples, the touchpad overlay  is implemented as a plastic cover that fits on or over the mobile device . The touchpad overlay  and associated program allows the mobile device  to function as a touch pad control from the remote reading terminal . In some examples, shapes can be drawn on a screen of the mobile device  to provide a \u201csoft\u201d touch pad.","In some examples, the mobile device  can be configured to operate in at least one of two modes. In a first mode, a plastic mold, adhesive strip, or other overlay  is mounted on the mobile device  itself. The plastic mold  includes a section for self-identification, such as a four-digit identifier, pattern of protrusions, etc. The mold  defines areas of the underlying touchpad that can be used to control functionality, access information, etc. The plastic mold overlay  can include openings in a solid mold, areas of varying mold thickness, areas of sunken and raised shapes, etc., for example. The mold overlay  can be used for a combination of shape and touch based identification, for example. In a second mode, a user puts pressure on the screen of a soft touchpad  of the device  where shapes are displayed on the touchpad screen to indicate functionality and\/or other features for selection.","As described above, a touchpad overlay can be implemented in a variety of configurations using a variety of materials and processes for manufacture. In a first example, a touchpad LCD display is attached to a computer via a connected such as a USB port with a hard-coded graphical layout including geometrical elements of various shape and colors and hard-coded ASCII codes generated in response to touching of each shape. The touchpad LCD display is covered by a plastic sheet with punched holes exposing only the pre-programmed shapes, for example. The plastic sheet can include openings in a solid mold, areas of varying mold thickness, areas of sunken and raised shapes, etc., for example. The plastic sheet overlay can be used for a combination of shape and touch based identification, for example. The plastic sheet can be a mold fitting on and\/or over the touchpad, an adhesive sheet at least temporarily affixed to the touchpad, etc. In operation, touching any of the exposed surface area is equivalent to selecting an appropriate key on a keyboard and\/or keypad with matching ASCII code. Thus, if such a key is programmed as an application shortcut, hitting the proper shape on the device will cause the desired actions within computer application. In an example, the touch pad device can be wirelessly connected to the computing device. In such case, the touch pad device pairs with the computing device. In an example, the touch pad device may not be a dedicated device but rather an embedded device pair with a programming component to translate a user request to user actions for the computing device. Alternatively and\/or in addition to an ASCII code, a combination of a code identifier, a velocity (e.g., right\/left and\/or up\/down speed of motion), and pressure (e.g., strength and spatial aspects (e.g., a combination of several shapes and\/or multi-touch within a shape)) can be used to define the type of change and scale of change in a controlled value or parameter, for example.","In a second example, the device described above with respect to the first example is equipped with multiple shapes and code configurations each optimized by a different computer application and\/or by a different workflow within the same application. When an application and\/or workflow is activated, the application or workflow automatically loads the proper configuration into the device and prompts the user to overlay the respective plastic cover on LCD touchscreen.","In a third example, in addition to the shapes that generate an ASCII code in response to hitting the shape substantially independent of the relative location of the hitting point, as described above in the first example, the device of the third example includes extended shapes that generate the digital signal whose value depends on the relative position of the touching body within the shape. Thus, the device can simulate \u201canalog\u201d controls similar to sliders, knobs and the like. Such extended shapes can be referred as \u201cControl Strips\u201d although their actual shape can be curved or even circular, for example. Introduction of such control strips can be beneficial to control transient parameters such as contrast\/brightness; zoom\/pan; or scrolling through a stack of images, for example. Alternatively and\/or in addition to an ASCII code, a combination of a code identifier, a velocity (e.g., right\/left and\/or up\/down speed of motion), and pressure (e.g., strength and spatial aspects (e.g., a combination of several shapes and\/or multi-touch within a shape)) can be used to define the type of change and scale of change in a controlled value or parameter, for example. An identifier associated with a selected shape, an identifier associated with the cover or overlay, and\/or other information (such as private data used to define a motion context and\/or motion profile for a certain application and\/or set of data) can be used by an application to facilitate touchscreen operation of the device.","In a fourth example, a device combines the features described above in examples one, two, and three. The device includes a set of standard or template overlay plates, and a computer application facilitates configuring the touchpad layout to match any of the standard overlays. The application can associate one or more actions with a touchpad layout and an opening in a selected overlay. The application provides a toolkit allowing a user to set the layout of the touchpad with respect to any of the set of overlays and to directly assign one or more application controlling actions to the shapes of the selected layout. Thus, the application can be interactively customized to provide a personalized application touchpad with tactile blind key location.","In a fifth example, a device includes a combination of the devices described above with respect to examples two, three, and four. The device includes a set of profiling parameters to characterize action intensity. The action intensity translates to how fast a desired state or range close to the desire state is reached using a touchpad control. The touchpad control and one or more profiling parameters can be matched and customized to an overlay.","In a sixth example, a device provides a combination of the devices described in examples two and three that allows a user to manipulate several controls simultaneously or substantially simultaneously (e.g., multi-touch control). Combination of control allows set of new requests and\/or execution of independent request simultaneously (or at least substantially simultaneously).","In a seventh example, a device is similar to the device described above with respect to example one but also allows a user and\/or application to define a configurable touch pad integrated, embedded, and\/or connected (e.g., wireless or with a physical cable) to a workstation.","In an eighth example, a device provides a combination of the devices described with respect to examples one through seven and allows a user and\/or application to define a touch pad application running on a third party component such as but not limited to a mobile Internet device. An overlay attaches to the mobile device, and the device includes one or more applications to configure the device to act as a touch pad. The mobile device can be connected to a workstation via a wireless interface including but not limited to an Internet connection (e.g., WiFi, telephonic, etc.), proximity communication interface (e.g., Bluetooth, infrared, RFID, etc.), USB, etc. wireless connection. In some examples, the mobile device can connect to the workstation via a wired connection (e.g., USB, firewire (IEEE 1394), etc.).","In some examples, an overlay can be formed from a punchboard and\/or similar material for a variety of applications. In an example, a punchboard is created, and then a user traces, such as using a pencil or stylus, a contour of touches\/punches to teach the shapes of the overlay to a touchscreen application. Then, a keystroke or combination of keystrokes and\/or functions can be assigned to the shape(s) defined. For example, an application programming interface (API) function and\/or application command can be assigned to a shape traced in the overlay.","In some examples, universal overlay templates are provided with multiple uses. Some examples provide a comprehensive tool set in conjunction with a set or deck of overlay templates and\/or one or more adjustable overlays. A user can customize a generic template (e.g., with functions such as adjust, next\/forward, previous\/backward, sliders (for contrast, brightness, volume, balance, etc.), and the like).","In some examples, an overlay is constructed from plastic or a combination of plastic and a membrane so that the overlay can be sterilized in an operating room and\/or other location where a sterile environment is needed. In an example, an overlay can be manufactured from a thick latex material having thin latex in depressions for user contact. An overlay can be made tactile sensitive in different ways. In some examples, a set of sterile covers including plastic and membrane is sterilized separately from the touchpad, which perhaps cannot be sterilized due to the contents of the touchpad device. In some examples, sterile covers and\/or overlays can be disposable covers and\/or re-sterilizable overlays. In some examples, an overlay is formed from at least one adhesive strip including molded shapes (e.g., recessed, elevated, etc.) that can be temporarily affixed to the touch pad surface or other mobile device surface, for example. The adhesive strip can be disposable, sterilizable, and\/or resistant to bacteria for use in a sterile environment or medical facility with concerns regarding risk of infection, for example.","In some examples, an overlay stands on a plurality of legs, and the position of the legs can encode the type of touchscreen provided. For a multi-touch pad, the combination of legs touching can serve as an indicator, such as a barcode, to tell the touchscreen which template has been placed on it. For example, an overlay can be placed on the touchscreen by a user who pushes down on the overlay such that the touchscreen automatically recognizes the overlay based on the leg position(s).","Alternatively or in addition, an overlay can include an indicator, such as an active or passive circuit (e.g., a radio frequency identifier (RFID)), to indicate to a touchscreen system which overlay has been placed on the touchscreen.","In some examples, an application associated with the touchscreen can provide error checking and prompt a user to change the overlay template if the wrong overlay is currently placed on the touchscreen.","Certain examples provide touchscreen overlays for systems facilitating computerized reading of diagnostic imaging. Certain examples can also apply to other information system(s) dedicated to processing digital visual content, provided that such processing involves at least some workflow steps controlled by user interaction and involves the focused attention of the operator on a graphical representation of the processed content presented on a display. De-focusing an operator's view from the content onto control elements of a graphical user interface causes the operator to lose focus and thus can reduce productivity and efficiency of content processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510"]},"At block , the overlay is positioned with respect to the interface. For example, the overlay can be manually positioned over the interface and\/or automatically guided by a supporting computer system. The overlay can be positioned to rest on the interface and\/or can be temporarily and\/or removably affixed to the touchscreen interface via one or more connectors (e.g., sticky areas, clasps, pins, clamps, etc.).","At block , the overlay is identified by the interface system. For example, a user can manually identify the overlay to the interface system. Alternatively or in addition, an indicator in the interface (e.g., a marking, an RFID, a surface material, etc.) can provide an automatic indication to the interface of the overlay present. In some examples, an overlay is provided with a touchscreen interface, and the interface system automatically identifies the overlay based on an identification code in the overlay (e.g., RFID, etc.), a protrusion in the overlay, a pressure pin, etc., when the overlay is connected to the touchscreen and\/or mobile device.","At block , an application related to interface is loaded. For example, in response to the overlay placement on the interface, a corresponding control application is loaded to allow a user to control operation and\/or otherwise interface with the system.","At block , use of the interface is facilitated via the overlay. For example, the controls operation of the microscope for digital pathology using the tactile overlay and the touchscreen interface.","In some examples, one or more of these blocks can be eliminated and\/or executed in a different order. For example, no overlay identification may be performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","10","20","31","42","610"]},"At block , the overlay part is formed from the material. For example, in injection molding, the plastic is heated, mixed, and forced into a mold cavity to cool and harden to the configuration of the mold cavity. Alternatively, a variety of other processes, such as overmolding, extrusion molding, transfer molding, compression molding, thermoforming, stamping, etching, etc., can be used to form the overlay part. Injection molding is provided as one example.","At block , the overlay part is packaged. The part can be packaged automatically, such as by machinery in an assembly line, manually, and\/or a combination of automatic and manual assembly and packaging. For example, one or more overlay parts can be boxed for sale and shipping. As another example, one or more overlay parts can be individually wrapped (e.g., in a plastic bag or wrapper) and distributed as a disposable set of overlays.","At block , the overlay part is distributed. For example, as discussed above, overlay parts can be sold and distributed as reusable items and\/or disposable units, for example. Overlay parts can be distributed and sold directly to clinical facilities (e.g., hospitals, doctors' offices, etc.), sold to medical suppliers, given away with medical equipment, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","720","730","740","700","600"]},"The material source  holds material to form a user interface overlay part, such as the overlay , , , and\/or . The molder  receives material from the source . For example, a plastic material is fed from the material source  into the injection molding machine  to form a plastic overlay part. In injection molding, for example, the material is fed into a heated barrel or other cavity. The cavity can be formed from a material, such as a metal (e.g., steel or aluminum) and machined to form the features of the desired part. Plastic material can be thermoplastic and\/or thermosetting plastic material, for example. Material can also include a composite, non-conducting material, a metal, a mesh, a film, and\/or other material, for example. The molder  forms the overlay part is formed from the provided material. For example, in injection molding, the plastic is heated, mixed, and forced into a mold cavity to cool and harden to the configuration of the mold cavity. Alternatively, a variety of other processes, such as overmolding, extrusion molding, transfer molding, compression molding, thermoforming, stamping, etching, etc., can be used to form the overlay part. Injection molding is provided as one example.","After the overlay part has been formed by molding, stamping, etching, etc., the part is passed from the molder to the packager . For example, the packager  can box one or more overlay parts for shipping and sale. As another example, one or more overlay parts can be individually wrapped (e.g., in a plastic bag or wrapper) by the packager  and distributed as a disposable set of overlays.","The packager  releases the packaged overlay part(s) to the distributor . The distributor can distribute overlay parts individually and\/or in groups or bundles, for example. The overlay parts can be distributed alone and\/or with other product(s). Overlay parts can be sold and distributed as reusable items and\/or disposable units, for example. Overlay parts can be distributed and sold directly to clinical facilities (e.g., hospitals, doctors' offices, etc.), sold to medical suppliers, given away with medical equipment, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["810","810","812","814","812","810","812","814"]},"The processor  of  is coupled to a chipset , which includes a memory controller  and an input\/output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) controller . As is well known, a chipset typically provides I\/O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and\/or special purpose registers, timers, etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller  performs functions that enable the processor  (or processors if there are multiple processors) to access a system memory  and a mass storage memory .","The system memory  may include any desired type of volatile and\/or non-volatile memory such as, for example, static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), flash memory, read-only memory (ROM), etc. The mass storage memory  may include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives, optical drives, tape storage devices, etc.","The I\/O controller  performs functions that enable the processor  to communicate with peripheral input\/output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) devices  and  and a network interface  via an I\/O bus . The I\/O devices  and  may be any desired type of I\/O device such as, for example, a keyboard, a video display or monitor, a mouse, etc. The network interface  may be, for example, an Ethernet device, an asynchronous transfer mode (\u201cATM\u201d) device, an 802.11 device, a DSL modem, a cable modem, a cellular modem, etc. that enables the processor system  to communicate with another processor system.","While the memory controller  and the I\/O controller  are depicted in  as separate blocks within the chipset , the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.","Certain embodiments contemplate methods, systems and computer program products on any machine-readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor, or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and\/or firmware system, for example.","Some or all of the system, apparatus, and\/or article of manufacture components described above, or parts thereof, can be implemented using instructions, code, and\/or other software and\/or firmware, etc. stored on a machine accessible or readable medium and executable by, for example, a processor system (e.g., the example processor system  of ). When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and\/or firmware implementation, at least one of the components is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory, DVD, CD, etc. storing the software and\/or firmware.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 8","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 8","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7"],"b":"812"},"Thus, certain examples provide for easy and inexpensive production of highly customizable and versatile workflow-oriented keyboards and\/or other touchscreen overlays. Certain examples provide tactile feedback for touchscreen interfaces without modification of the touchscreen itself. Certain examples provide portable overlays for use with a plurality of clinical touchscreen interfaces. Certain examples provide a tool kit (disposable and\/or reusable) of overlays for selection by a user (and\/or by device prompt) to accommodate a variety of medical device interfaces.","In certain example, a touchpad is instrumented with a hardware plastic overlay to cover unused interface surface area and expose active touchpad buttons through blindly searchable punched shapes such as, but not limited to, rectangles, triangles, strips, circles, and\/or other appropriate shape openings. In addition to shape and position, \u201cblind locating\u201d of interface options (e.g., buttons) can be enhanced by adding various textures to different areas of the plastic overlay or cover and\/or a bumpy shape to the edges of recessions of the overlay, for example.","One or more of the components of the systems and\/or steps of the methods described above may be implemented alone or in combination in hardware, firmware, and\/or as a set of instructions in software, for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer-readable medium, such as a memory, hard disk, DVD, or CD, for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device. Certain embodiments of the present invention may omit one or more of the method steps and\/or perform the steps in a different order than the order listed. For example, some steps may not be performed in certain embodiments of the present invention. As a further example, certain steps may be performed in a different temporal order, including simultaneously, than listed above.","Certain embodiments include computer-readable media for carrying or having computer-executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer-readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example, such computer-readable media may comprise RAM, ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, Flash, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer-executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer-readable media. Computer-executable instructions comprise, for example, instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.","Generally, computer-executable instructions include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of certain methods and systems disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.","Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network (LAN) and a wide area network (WAN) that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office-wide or enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations, including personal computers, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked (either by hardwired links, wireless links, or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links) through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of embodiments of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer, including a processing unit, a system memory, and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory (ROM) and random access memory (RAM). The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk, a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk, and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer-executable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore, it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
