---
title: Crest factor enhancement in electrosurgical generators
abstract: The present disclosure relates to an electrosurgical generator which includes a controller configured to generate a first pulse train having at least one first control pulse and at least one first reset pulse. The controller also includes a second pulse train having at least one second control pulse and at least one second reset pulse. The first control pulse(s) and the second control pulse(s) are asynchronous and the reset pulse(s) are synchronous. The electrosurgical generator also includes an RF output stage which includes a first switching element and a second switching element. The control pulses are configured to activate the first switching element and second switching elements, respectively, in an asynchronous fashion to generate a non-continuous RF waveform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08409186&OS=08409186&RS=08409186
owner: Covidien LP
number: 08409186
owner_city: Mansfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090311
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/036,323 entitled \u201cCREST FACTOR ENHANCEMENT IN ELECTROSURCICAL GENERATORS\u201d filed Mar. 13, 2008 by Robert Behnke et al, which is incorporated by reference herein.","1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates to electrosurgical apparatuses, systems and methods. More particularly, the present disclosure is directed to enhancing and\/or maintaining a crest factor of a radiofrequency (RF) waveform in electrosurgical generators.","2. Background of Related Art","Energy-based tissue treatment is well known in the art. Various types of energy (e.g., electrical, ultrasonic, microwave, cryo, heat, laser, etc.) are applied to tissue to achieve a desired result. Electrosurgery involves application of high radio frequency electrical current to a surgical site to cut, ablate, coagulate or seal tissue. In monopolar electrosurgery, a source or active electrode delivers radio frequency energy from the electrosurgical generator to the tissue and a return electrode carries the current back to the generator. In monopolar electrosurgery, the source electrode is typically part of the surgical instrument held by the surgeon and applied to the tissue to be treated. A patient return electrode is placed remotely from the active electrode to carry the current back to the generator.","Ablation is most commonly a monopolar procedure that is particularly useful in the field of cancer treatment, where one or more RF ablation needle electrodes (usually of elongated cylindrical geometry) are inserted into a living body. A typical form of such needle electrodes incorporates an insulated sheath from which an exposed (uninsulated) tip extends. When RF energy is provided between the return electrode and the inserted ablation electrode, RF current flows from the needle electrode through the body. Typically, the current density is very high near the tip of the needle electrode, which tends to heat and destroy surrounding issue.","In bipolar electrosurgery, one of the electrodes of the hand-held instrument functions as the active electrode and the other as the return electrode. The return electrode is placed in close proximity to the active electrode such that an electrical circuit is formed between the two electrodes (e.g., electrosurgical forceps). In this manner, the applied electrical current is limited to the body tissue positioned between the electrodes. When the electrodes are sufficiently separated from one another, the electrical circuit is open and thus inadvertent contact with body tissue with either of the separated electrodes does not cause current to flow.","It is known in the art that the crest factor of a waveform is a useful measure of the coagulating ability of a radio frequency output. Thus, maintaining a high crest factor would be beneficial in electrosurgical procedures.","The present disclosure relates to an electrosurgical generator which includes a controller configured to generate a first pulse train having at least one first control pulse and at least one first reset pulse. The controller also includes a second pulse train having at least one second control pulse and at least one second reset pulse. The first and second control pulses are asynchronous and the reset pulses are synchronous. The electrosurgical generator also includes an RE output stage which includes a first switching element and a second switching element. The first control pulse and the second control pulse are configured to activate the first switching element and second switching element, asynchronously, to generate a non-continuous RF waveform. Also, the first reset pulse and the second reset pulse are configured to synchronously activate the first and second switching elements, respectively, to reset the RF output stage.","A method for performing electrosurgery includes the step of generating a first pulse train, which includes a first control pulse and a first reset pulse. The method also includes the step of generating a second pulse train, which includes a second control pulse and a second reset pulse. The first and second control pulses are asynchronous and the first and second reset pulses are synchronous. A further step includes supplying the first and second control pulse trains to an RF output stage having a first switching element and a second switching element. The method also includes the step of activating the first and second switching elements asynchronously to generate a non-continuous RF waveform in response to the asynchronous first and second control pulses. The method may further include the step of activating first and second switching elements synchronously to reset the RF output stage in response to the at least one first reset pulse and at least one second reset pulse.","Another embodiment of the present disclosure includes a method for performing electrosurgery which includes the steps of: setting a desired crest factor for a non-continuous RF waveform; determining an actual crest factor of a non-continuous RF waveform, comparing the desired crest factor with the actual crest factor, and performing an adjustment of a property of a first reset pulse and a property of a second reset pulse to maintain a desired crest factor. The controller is configured to generate a first pulse train having a first control pulse and a first reset pulse. The controller is also configured to generate a second pulse train, having a second control and second reset pulse. The first and second control pulses are asynchronous and the first and second reset pulses are synchronous. Also, the method includes the step of comparing the desired crest factor with the actual crest factor.","Particular embodiments of the present disclosure are described hereinbelow with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description, well-known functions or constructions are not described in detail to avoid obscuring the present disclosure in unnecessary detail.","The electrosurgical generator, according to the present disclosure, can perform monopolar and bipolar electrosurgical procedures, including vessel sealing procedures. The generator may include a plurality of outputs for interfacing with various electrosurgical instruments (e.g., a monopolar active electrode, return electrode, bipolar electrosurgical forceps, footswitch, etc.). Further, the generator includes electronic circuitry configured for generating radio frequency power specifically suited for various electrosurgical modes (e.g., cutting, blending, division, etc.) and procedures (e.g., monopolar, bipolar, vessel sealing).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["1","1","2","2","2","20","4","30","20","2","20","6","8","32","20","30","32","2","6","4","8"]},"The system  may include a plurality of return electrodes  that are arranged to minimize the chances of tissue damage by maximizing the overall contact area with the patient P. In addition, the generator  and the return electrode  may be configured for monitoring so-called \u201ctissue-to-patient\u201d contact to insure that sufficient contact exists therebetween to further minimize chances of tissue damage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","3","10","10","14","16","14","16","20","18","4","8","30","32","10","20","21","30","32","18","4","8"]},"The generator  includes suitable input controls (e.g., buttons, activators, switches, touch screen, etc.) for controlling the generator . In addition, the generator  may include one or more display screens for providing the user with variety of output information (e.g., intensity settings, treatment complete indicators, etc.). The controls allow the user to adjust power of the RF energy, waveform, and other parameters to achieve the desired waveform suitable for a particular task (e.g., coagulating, tissue sealing, intensity setting, etc.). The instrument  may also include a plurality of input controls that may be redundant with certain input controls of the generator . Placing the input controls at the instrument  allows for easier and faster modification of RF energy parameters during the surgical procedure without requiring interaction with the generator .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["20","20","24","27","28","24","24","28","27","28","30","32"]},"In particular, the RF output stage  generates sinusoidal waveforms of high RF energy. The RF output stage  is configured to generate a plurality of waveforms having various duty cycles, peak voltages, crest factors, and other suitable parameters. Certain types of waveforms are suitable for specific electrosurgical modes. For instance, the RF output stage  generates a 100% duty cycle sinusoidal waveform in cut mode, which is best suited for ablating, fusing and dissecting tissue and a 1-25% duty cycle waveform in coagulation mode, which is best used for cauterizing tissue to stop bleeding.","The generator  may include a plurality of connectors to accommodate various types of electrosurgical instruments (e.g., instrument , electrosurgical forceps , etc.). Further, the generator  is configured to operate in a variety of modes such as ablation, monopolar and bipolar cutting coagulation, etc. It is envisioned that the generator  may include a switching mechanism (e.g., relays) to switch the supply of RF energy between the connectors, such that, for instance, when the instrument  is connected to the generator , only the monopolar plug receives RF energy.","The controller  includes a microprocessor  operably connected to a memory , which may be volatile type memory (e.g., RAM) and\/or non-volatile type memory (e.g., flash media, disk media, etc.). The microprocessor  includes an output port that is operably connected to the HVPS  and\/or RF output stage  allowing the microprocessor  to control the output of the generator  according to either open and\/or closed control loop schemes. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the microprocessor  may be substituted by any logic processor (e.g., control circuit) adapted to perform the calculations discussed herein.","A closed loop control scheme is a feedback control loop wherein sensor circuit  and\/or crest factor detection circuit , which both may include a plurality of sensors measuring a variety of tissue and energy properties (e.g., tissue impedance, tissue temperature, output current and\/or voltage, crest factor, etc.), provide feedback to the controller . Such sensors are within the purview of those skilled in the art. The controller  then signals the HVPS  and\/or RF output stage , which then adjust DC and\/or RF power supply, respectively. The controller  also receives input signals from the input controls of the generator  or the instrument . The controller  utilizes the input signals to adjust power outputted by the generator  and\/or performs other control functions thereon.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 6"],"b":["28","40","40","41","43","41","27","42","44","42","44","24","24","60","42","62","44","28","43","30","32"]},"In various types of control loops it may be desirable to measure certain properties of RF energy being delivered by the RF output stage . In particular, voltage is continuously measured and impedance is calculated by the sensor circuit . In one embodiment, a control loop may be configured to measure the crest factor of a waveform and maintain the crest factor at a desired level. Crest factor is a useful measurement of the coagulation ability of an RF output waveform, thus increasing or controlling the crest factor is beneficial to electrosurgical procedures involving coagulation.","The present disclosure provides a system and method for maintaining a desired crest factor of an RF waveform. A high crest factor waveform is particularly helpful in electrosurgical procedures. The crest factor is defined as the ratio of the peak voltage and root mean square (RMS) voltage for symmetrical waveforms, those having a 100% duty cycle (e.g., when there is no interruption or pause in the RF waveform).\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nFor non-symmetrical waveforms, the crest factor is defined as the ratio of peak to peak voltage and twice the RMS voltage\n\n\/2\u2003\u2003(2)\n","Electrosurgical generators have difficulties generating high crest factor waveforms primarily due to excessive ringing, during the off-time or pause stage. The ringing in the RF waveform is especially excessive in high impedance loads. This occurs due to an increase in the RMS of the waveform and which decreases the crest factor, as seen in the above formula (2). When the undesired ringing is removed, the RMS of the waveform is decreased, thus increasing the crest factor (e.g., maintaining the crest factor).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["24","60","42","62","44","28","60","62","64","60","62","64","60","62","40","42"],"i":["a ","a","a ","a "]},"More specifically, the first pulse train  activates the pull of the RF output stage  when the square wave of the clock signal is at its highest amplitude, namely when the first control pulse activates the switching element . The second pulse train  activates the push of the RF output stage  when the square wave of the clock signal is at its highest amplitude, such that the second control pulse activates the switching element . By alternating the first and second control pulses and and spacing the control pulses and at \u00bd cycle timing (e.g., 180\u00b0 out of phase), the RE waveform  is created at a specified frequency. Further, tuning can be done with inductors and capacitors and\/or the parasitics of the transformer  to give a sinusoidal output as illustrated in output wave  in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["64","60","62","60","62","66","60","62"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a ","a ","b "]},"The region  shows the RE waveform  decaying steadily due to a pause in pulse trains  and , i.e., no activity. The region  is defined as the region where switching elements  and  (shown in ) do not receive the pulse trains  and  from the controller . Although there is a pause in the pulse trains  and , there is still sufficient energy stored in the tuning elements of the transformer , thus energy rings out. When the control pulse trains  and  are stopped in the RE output stage , ringing occurs in the region  of the waveform , since stored energy still exists in the circuitry. The ringing in the region , in turn, reduces the crest factor in the RF waveform , as illustrated in . In order to maintain a high crest factor waveform output of the electrosurgical unit, the ringing in the waveform , shown in region  must be decreased and\/or eliminated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["50","50","52","54","60","56","58","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["60","62","60","62","60","62","42","44","60","62","24","64","24","42","44","60","62","64","64","68","28"],"i":["a ","a","b ","b ","b ","b ","b ","b ","b "]},"It is envisioned that the timing of the first and second reset pulses and may be adjusted depending on the patient load and\/or different electrosurgical procedure. For example, the start time of first and second reset pulse and transmitted by the controller  may vary. It is also envisioned that the duration of the first and second reset pulses and may vary in different electrosurgical procedures and\/or different patients. All of these required and\/or desired adjustments may be made by the controller  by transmitting the clock signal to the switching elements.","In embodiments, the desired crest factor can be adjusted in real-time based on certain parameters, for example, but not limited to, tissue impedance, duration of time since activation time T, repeating pattern(s), tissue temperature, and blade temperature. These parameters may be adjusted by the controller or by a user.","In other embodiments, the crest factor can be adjusted by changing the duty cycle, e.g., the number of pulses, of pulse patterns. More particularly, the pulse pattern may be adjusted to a single pulse pattern (i.e., spray coagulation mode), having a duty cycle of about 4.6%, to a multi-pulse pattern (i.e., blend mode or pure cut mode), having a duty cycle of about 100%. By adjusting the duty cycle from about 4.6% to about 100%, this, in turn, adjusts the crest factor from about 1.4 to about 8.0.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["50","50","52","54","50","60","56","58","56","58","60","60","50","56","58"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 9 and 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["28","28","40","40","42","44","48","48","49","60","62","42","44","27","24","63","48"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["24","42","44","42","44","48","40","40","49","48","64","69","49","64","64","69","64"],"i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["23","22","64","100","20","20","20","20"],"sub":"n"},"In step , the crest factor detection circuit  calculates and determines an actual crest factor of the non-continuous RF waveform  (). The crest factor detection circuit  measures the voltage and calculates the peak and RMS voltage based on the above-discussed formulas (1) and (2). The voltage values are then used by the crest factor detection circuit  to determine the crest factor.","In other embodiments, the crest factor detection circuit  may be configured to calculate and determine an actual \u201ccurrent\u201d crest factor of a \u201ccurrent\u201d waveform (not shown). The \u201ccurrent\u201d crest factor is defined as the ratio of peak current and the RMS current.\n\n\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nThe current values are then used by the crest factor detection circuit  (similarly to the RF waveform crest factor) to determine the \u201ccurrent\u201d crest factor.\n","In step , the microprocessor  and\/or the crest factor detection circuit  compares the actual crest factor with the desired crest factor, thereby determining a crest factor error. The controller  determines if the actual crest factor is lower or higher than the desired crest factor. If the desired crest factor is less than or greater than the actual crest factor, the method proceeds to step , in which the properties of the first and second reset pulses and () are adjusted by the controller  in order to decrease or increase the actual crest factor in order to match the desired crest factor. For example, frequency, period, duty cycle and other properties of the first and second reset pulses and may be adjusted.","According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, an activation time T+a (e.g., duty cycle) and a duration time T(e.g., period of the pulse) of the synchronous reset pulses and may be varied. In particular, the duty cycle of the first and second reset pulses and transmitted by the controller  may be varied by adjusting the off-time period, T+a, wherein Tis the time period or remaining portion of the control pulse , and wherein a is the time period between the trailing control pulse (e.g., control pulse ) and the first and second reset pulses and . As shown in , the on-time period, T, between the synchronous reset pulses and may also be adjusted. Some of the factors that may determine the variation of the activation time T+a and the duration time Tof the first and second reset pulses and are the tissue composition of the patient, the user's treatment plan, and\/or the effect on certain parameters of the waveform (e.g., crest factor, wave length, wave period, etc.).","Afterwards, the method loops back to step  and repeats the steps of maintaining a desired crest factor. It is also envisioned that an additional step may be included to scan the actual RF waveform for ringing beyond the specified duty cycle. As a result of the scan, the RF waveform may be analyzed to determine when the following synchronous reset pulses and\/or the control pulses may be activated.","While several embodiments of the disclosure have been shown in the drawings and\/or discussed herein, it is not intended that the disclosure be limited thereto, as it is intended that the disclosure be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise. Therefore, the above description should not be construed as limiting, but merely as exemplifications of particular embodiments. Those skilled in the art will envision other modifications within the scope and spirit of the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to the drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
