---
title: Electronic presentation of world time zones
abstract: An electronically generated simultaneous display of the local time within multiple time zones in the world is adjusted to accommodate local time arising from Daylight Saving Time. A preferred modified south polar projection of the Earth which schematically depicts the Northern Hemisphere is divided into geographical time zones. Each geographic time zone is associated with a time marker that points to an adjacent time scale. Either the geographical time zones or the time markers are adjusted in order to correctly display the ongoing time changes resulting from the continuous observation of Daylight Saving Time in time zones of the world. As further features, a user may adjust the display to present a hypothetical time and the corresponding times experienced in different time zones around the world. A user may have a specific time zone highlighted by invoking data, such as a city name, a telephone area code or an address book contact reference, which is associated with specific time zone. Conversely, highlighting a time zone may invoke a list of data associated with that time zone, e.g. city names, countries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08221125&OS=08221125&RS=08221125
owner: World View Time Inc.
number: 08221125
owner_city: Brockville, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20090813
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates in general to timekeeping, and more specifically to the rapid and facile determination of the effective local civil time for any specific geographical location in the world. The invention, in particular, addresses this, while automatically accounting for Daylight Saving Time adjustments that may be effected in any particular locale.","2. Description of the Prior Art","It is well known in the art to provide a clock that simultaneously displays the time across various, if not all, time zones around the world. The word \u201cClock\u201d as used herein is meant to include all forms of timepieces or means for recording and displaying the passage of time. As such, a clock represents a dynamic display. Corresponding times within different world time zones may also be presented graphically in a static format.","(Conventional Clock Dials in General)","The representation of time on a standard dial clock's face is often thought to trace back to early people's familiarity with sundials. In the most common design of sundial, a graduated time scale in imprinted on a horizontal surface, which is then aligned in a direction facing along the line between true North and South. A shadow-casting style or gnomon is arranged with respect to the graduated surface, such that the shadow caused by the relative movement of the sun throughout the day will fall upon and intercept the graduated time scale and indicate the local solar time.","While a sundial can be made very accurate and precise in the determination of solar time for a given locale, it can only be useful if and when the sun is sufficiently bright to cast a distinct shadow. This rather severe operational limitation has led throughout history to the invention of dial clocks which substituted a mechanical movement driving an indicator hand to substitute for the moving shadow of the sun. As the mechanical clock's hand or hands were intended to be an analogue or metaphor for a solar shadow, mechanical dial clocks have most commonly moved the indicator hand or hands in the same direction the gnomon shadow moves on a sundial throughout the day. This is the direction that we now commonly call clockwise.","(Clock Dials Incorporating a Polar Projection.)","With the advent of the industrial age, and with improvements in the science and art of cartography, clock designers hit upon the idea of combining a presentation of the Earth's surface with a mechanical clock, in order to indicate the differing local times at various locales. Many of these approaches resulted in multi-zone world time clock designs which made use of a circular world map, centered on either the North or South pole, and which operated in a manner that is mechanically similar to that of a standard two-handed clock movement. These types of clocks typically segment the world map into the various known time zones, and provide a means to allow a user to read the local time at each time zone simultaneously.","When incorporating a polar projection world map into a standard dial clock display driven by a conventional mechanical clock movement, a South polar projection of the Earth has an advantage, apart from merely depicting the world as a circular image. In a South polar projection, the graphic presentation of the Earth may rotate clockwise in the manner of a standard dial clock with the corresponding times indicated by a fixed encircling 24 hour scale. Conversely, the adoption of a North polar projection requires either that the graphic projection rotate counterclockwise against a fixed 24-hour time scale that increases in the counterclockwise direction; or that the time scale rotates about the geographic projection This would be unnatural to the clock's observers.","One example of a mechanical clock with a North polar world map projection and counterclockwise mechanical movement can be seen in FIG. 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5,57,173, granted in 1896 to D. W. Thompson.","The other approach, maintaining clockwise movement of a map projection centered on the Earth's South pole, can be seen in FIG. 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5,146,436 by James B. Wright. Wright teaches of a mechanical world clock having a circular polar map which is divided into twenty-four zones. Overlying this map are twenty-four, radially extending hour indicators, each serving to indicate the local time at each individual time zone by pointing-out times on an encircling 24 hour scale. Two of these indicators are made particularly distinctive over the others, and are adjusted to correspond to a user's present geographical location and time zone. The first of the two indicators is meant to indicate the user's standard local time, whereas the second indicator, positioned adjacent to the first, is meant to represent adjusted local time, such a daylight saving time. The user is expected to know which of the indicators corresponds with appropriate, actual time in the local time zone.","One hybrid world clock design which maintains a standard clockwise hand movement and incorporates a North polar map projection is described in U.S. Pat. No. 862,884, to P. G. Connor. Connor's geographical clock makes use of a moving annular time indication scale, which has the 24 hours of the day numbered in ascending order counterclockwise. This annular scale is itself secured to the hour hand of a conventional 24 hour clockwise movement. The reverse-numbered annular scale is preferably made of a transparent material to allow for viewing the map below. The annular scale then rotates with the hour hand about the centre of the map projection, giving an indication of the local time in any area on the map.","The present inventor, Dwight Darling, has also obtained U.S. Pat. No. 5,054,008 for a mechanical or electro-mechanical movement clock with a clock face based on a modified South polar projection of the world and clockwise map movement. The geographic projection of this previous invention relies on colours to identify specific time zones and correspondingly coloured peripheral indicators are provided around the circumference of the South polar projection pointing to the exterior, fixed, 24-hour scale.","(Linear Clocks Incorporating a Mercator Projection.)","In addition to the polar projections described above, there are many multi-zone world clocks in existence which make use of a more conventional Mercator projection map of the world, segregated into the 24 or more distinct time zones, and employ various methods of displaying the local time of each individual time zone. No provision is made in the system to accommodate changes to daylight saving time.","A 1966 U.S. Pat. No. 3,232,038 to Smith, describes a mechanical multi-zone world clock which has a display consisting of a Mercator projection map of the Earth. The map is perforated with a series of window-like apertures at specific locations. An indexed display tape or film is driven by a sprocket transport at a fixed rate behind the map in order that the viewer can read time index numbers through the map's viewing windows.","In later efforts, multi-zone clocks have been designed which leverage electronic means of display in the place of mechanical systems. One example can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6,233,204 to Chu et al., where a multi-zone clock is provided which comprises a Mercator projection of the Earth with 24 discrete display windows for the separate time zones. Each display window is furnished with a Light Emitting Diode display, which presents the local civil time in its given time zone, and a coloured symbol is applied to label countries which practice Daylight Saving Time adjustment. Viewers in such case must mentally calculate the actual time in the daylight savings time zone.","Two other U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,845,257 and 6,647,370, to Fu et al., disclose methods for assisting a user in managing events across time zones. These methods also provide a Mercator projection of the Earth, with digital readouts arrayed about the map which can be set to display the current effective civil time in a number of locations of interest. The methods describe a user interface which allows the operator to choose a time to be associated with a computer recorded event. The time may be referenced to the operator's home time zone, the local time zone, or another remote time zone.","Another electronically-based world time presentation system, U.S. Pat. No. 5,007,033 to Kubota et al., provides a Mercator projection map of the Earth, with a digital display unit positioned upon it. A series of selector push-button switches are arrayed beneath the map, with each button labeled with an index number and the name of an assigned city. When the operator activates one of the selector switches, the digital display unit presents the chosen city's index number and the local civil time for that location.","(The Issue of Daylight Saving Time.)","Regardless of the chosen map projection, it is a fact that throughout the course of the calendar year various regions around the world will adjust their local time in observance of Daylight Saving Time (DST). Not every time zone in the world, however, shifts to Daylight Saving Time during the year. The majority of North America and Europe, as well as parts of South America and Asia observe some form of Daylight Saving Time. These changes will typically involve advancing local time by one hour at one point in the calendar year and then retarding local time by one hour at a second point of the calendar year. For example, in North America, time advancement is typically carried out during the Spring, and the reduction in time is typically carried out in the Fall. In parts of Africa, however, the advancement of local time takes place in the Fall, and the reduction of local time takes place in the Spring.","When the local time of certain regions of the world is advanced, or reduced as a result of Daylight Saving Time, clocks displaying world time typically must accommodate such changes in order to correctly display local time across each time zone, or be inaccurate. The usefulness of these types of clocks may be greatly diminished if such an accommodation cannot be made.","The situation is made even more complicated because some time zones are on the half-hour. For example, the time zone for Newfoundland Canada is only a half hour earlier than the time zone for the Canadian Maritime provinces. Similar instances occur in respect of other regions around the world.","A further complication is that there are standard time zones in the world wherein only a portion of the territory of such standard time zones adjusts the time for daylight saving.","The aforementioned Polar projection world clock of U.S. Pat. No. 5,146,436 to Wright, in providing a second indicator to represent local time, can be adjusted in observance of Daylight Saving Time. While Wright's design thus does provide a means to adjust the user's current geographical location time in accordance to Daylight Saving Time, it does not provide a means to correct the time within other time zones across the world which may also implement Daylight Saving Time.","In I. Smith's linear Mercator projection world time clock of U.S. Pat. No. 3,232,038, the position of the viewing window may be mechanically shifted parallel to the length of the scrolling band, thereby providing an avenue to correct a particular region's local time when Daylight Saving Time is in force. Again here, no general solution is provided to the issue of differing dates being used in various geographical regions and sub-regions for the application of Daylight Saving Time corrections.","Modern communications rely greatly on computers with electronically controlled presentation displays, and long distance telephony. In the case of computers, electronic messages are sent continuously by e-mail and other means over the Internet to destinations around the world. Similarly, long distance telephone call set-up may occur at any time of the day or night. When communicating to others across civil time zones, a person often needs a quick and convenient method for determining the local time at the target distant location.","It would be convenient to provide an electronic display for a clock incorporating a cartographic projection of the Earth. Further, it would be convenient to provide in such a display a means to accommodate changes due to Daylight Saving Time on a region-by-region basis, as well as other useful features. The present invention seeks to address such objectives by taking advantage of modern technology relating to electronically displayed images.","The invention in its general form will first be described, and then its implementation in terms of specific embodiments will be detailed with reference to the drawings following hereafter. These embodiments are intended to demonstrate the principle of the invention, and the manner of its implementation. The invention in its broadest and more specific forms will then be further described, and defined, in each of the individual claims which conclude this Specification.","According to one aspect of the invention, an electronically controlled graphic display system is provided for effecting a user presentation which simultaneously displays the local civil time in various civil time zones around the world. This may be in the form of an electronic presentation of a clock face with a graphic image depicting the world's time zones, simultaneously indicating the local time in such time zones around the world. Preferably this display, however presented, is adjusted by an automatic mechanism to accommodate regional time changes due to Daylight Saving Time.","According to a more specific aspect of the invention, a cartographic projection, which may be in the form of a map or image of the Earth or a portion of the Earth's surface, is divided into a series of colour-coded or otherwise visually distinguished geographical time areas, with each area representing a region sharing a given civil time zone. This cartographic projection is presented on an electronically controlled graphic display element by an electronic display controller. The graphic display element may, for example, be a conventional computer workstation display or public presentation device, a portable LCD display device as may be found in an Internet-enabled cellular telephone or personal digital assistant, or may in the form of a dedicated display device embedded in the central area of a wall or desk clock, or wristwatch face, in order to add functionality to these timepieces.","The electronic display controller may take the form of a digital micro-controller system, a general purpose stored program computer or microcomputer, or a distributed electronic data processing system composed of any number of electronic information processing hosts connected for information transmission via suitable data communications media.","In one variant of the invention, the cartographic projection may be, or may be derived from, a satellite, aerial or other image, and which may have the geographical areas denoted through the superimposition of reference markings or by false colouring techniques.","According to yet another aspect of the invention, the display controller is provided with or has access to a clocking subsystem capable of determining the actual time and thereby providing the local effective civil time corresponding to each of a series of geographical time areas. The display controller may also be provided with a digital record store or database, or has access to such sources, containing a list of the geographical time areas and their locations on the cartographic projection. The digital record database may also contain each geographical area's standard time offset from Coordinated Universal Time, and preferentially the effective calendar date that each geographical area adjusts the prevailing local civil time to introduce or remove a Daylight Saving Time correction.","In another aspect of the invention, the display controller may present on the electronic display a time scale, comprising a series of time values in the form of time indicators present along part or all of the periphery of the cartographic projection. Also along the periphery of the cartographic projection the controller may display a series of colour or otherwise visually coded time zone time markers which coordinate with the colouring or coding of the geographic time areas. Preferably, these time zone time markers are located so as to index against the time indicators present in the time scale presentation and thereby provide each zone's effective civil time. Optionally and preferably such time markers are triangular in shape or otherwise shaped in order to more precisely indicate a specific time on the time scale at a level which is more detailed than simply indicating the hour. This is an alternative to providing a minute hand on the clock. A minute hand may also, optionally, be present.","In another aspect of the invention, the display controller may periodically reference the clocking subsystem, and when such action is indicated, change the relative positions of the time zone time markers, in order that the markers continue to correctly index against the correct indicators of the indication scale and track with the local civil times of the geographic areas with the passage of time.","According to one preferred aspect of the invention, the display controller may periodically reference the effective calendar date determined by the clocking subsystem, and compare this date to the dates stored in the digital record database representing when each geographical area is expected to apply or remove a Daylight Saving Time adjustment. In this preferred aspect, the display controller may change the colours or other coding of the geographic time areas on the cartographic projection to redistribute these areas as required by local time changes. Alternately, the corresponding locations of related time zone time markers can be shifted to indicate the correct, adjusted, time.","In a first preferred embodiment of the invention, the cartographic projection of the Earth's surface may be in the form of modified polar projection, centered on the South pole. The projection is modified to show schematically time zone regions actually present in the northern hemisphere. This South polar projection may be electronically presented to the viewer as rotating about its centre point in the clockwise direction at the rate of 24 hours per rotation. The depiction of the world may be divided into approximately twenty-four geographical time areas representing time zones wherein each region is provided with a colour-coding to visibly distinguish the respective time zone regions.","In a variant form of this embodiment, the modified polar projection may be centered on the North pole, in which case it may be depicted as rotating about its centre point in a counter-clockwise direction, again at a rate of 24 hours per cycle.","According to the polar projection embodiments, the electronic presentation may represent the time scale in the form of a series of time indicia located around the outer, circular periphery of the polar projection. These indicia may fully encircle the periphery of the polar projection, and may be distributed at substantially equal distances from one another whether or not adjacent geographical time areas differ by one hour.","According to another feature of the polar projection embodiments, the time zone time markers rotate synchronously with the world map. Each time marker is associated with a proximate geographic time zone located on the map, and may be appropriately colour-coded or otherwise visually cued to indicate and correspond to an associated time zone or geographical time area. The presentation depicts the circular world map and coloured\/coded time zone time markers as rotating periodically with respect to the time indicia on the 24-hour dial such that the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time indicators provides the local time of each geographical time zone shown on the map.","In an alternate presentation of the polar projection variants of the invention, the relative positions of the map and time zone time markers may be fixed, and the time scale indicia within the time scale may then rotate around the map and markers. In such case, the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time scale indicia indicates the local time of each geographical time zone shown on the map.","In a second preferred embodiment of the invention, the cartographic projection of the Earth's surface may be in the form of a conventional or modified Mercator projection. This Mercator projection may also be divided into approximately twenty-four geographical time areas representing time zones wherein each region is provided with a colour or alternate form of coding to visibly distinguish the respective time zone regions. Time zone time markers are positioned along the upper peripheral edge of the polar projection, the lower peripheral edge, or both.","According to this embodiment, the electronic presentation may represent the time scale in the form of a series of time indicia located along the upper peripheral edge of the Mercator projection, the lower peripheral edge, or both. These indicia may fully extend along the upper or lower border of the Mercator projection, and may be distributed at substantially equal distances from one another.","In another aspect of the Mercator projection embodiments, the time zone time markers may move laterally with respect to the timescale. In this embodiment the presentation may depict the Mercator projection world map and coloured time markers as sliding laterally over time with respect to the time indicia on the linear 24-hour dial such that the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time indicia indicates the local time of each geographical time zone shown on the map.","In an alternate presentation of the Mercator projection variants of the invention, the relative positions of the map and time zone time markers may be fixed, and the time indicia may then move linearly with respect to the map and markers. This ensures that the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time indicia continues to indicate the local time of each geographical time zone shown on the map while presenting a stable geographic image of the world.","With either Polar or Mercator projection embodiments, a single 24 hour time scale or display of time indicia may be provided. Conventionally and preferably, a series of numbers are evenly spaced along the scale at points corresponding to 15\u00b0 intervals of longitude with optional subdivisions indicating portions of an hour. These numbers may run from 1 to 24 or may run in two series, each from 1 to 12, with the optional but preferred presence of an indication that these series are to indicate time on the dark side of the Earth and on the side of the Earth that is illuminated by sunlight. As the time that the sun rises and sets changes, different sections of times may represent the night and day.","In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the display controller apparatus effecting an electronic presentation of a clock is provided with Daylight Saving adjustment capability. These adjustments are achieved according to one option through selectively shifting the position of, and optionally the nature of, the coloured or otherwise visually discriminated time markers corresponding to regions adopting local time changes. The display for such time markers may be shifted with respect to the time scale indicia by a distance corresponding to the change arising from entering or leaving Daylight Saving Time, as for example one hour on the time indicia scale. Thus in changing the position of a time indicator, the local time of the corresponding time zone may be indicated as advanced or reduced by one hour in accordance with Daylight Saving Time requirements.","Where a shifted time marker is moved to a position already occupied by another time marker, both markers may be modified in shape to share the same location. Thus equilateral triangles can be reduced to half size in order to share space with another time indicator that is colored to match another time zone that is on the same time as, for example, a region that does not shift to daylight savings.","An advantage to having the time markers, each of a given colour, or otherwise visually denoted, shifted in their position along or around the periphery of the world map to accommodate a change to or from Daylight Saving in the corresponding territorial regions, is that the presentation of the corresponding territorial regions need not change. Thus the appearance of the world map in its polar or Mercator or other projection will be largely undisturbed for the benefit of the perception of persons viewing this presentation.","In instances where only a territorial fraction of a particular time zone observes Daylight Saving Time, the specific sub-region within such time-zone which does not observe Daylight Saving Time may be re-coloured or visually marked in the display to adopt a reference scheme corresponding to an adjacent time zone having the same time. The result is that the non-observing region acquires a visual cue which corresponds to a new time marker which displays its correct local time.","In regions where the majority of territories shift to Daylight Saving Time, this procedure of shifting the position of the time markers has the advantage of minimizing departures from the traditional colours or markings provided to time zone regions. Correspondingly, the expectations of viewers as to the colours or markings of specific territories are minimally disrupted.","In an alternative embodiment, the presentation adjusts the clock display for regional time changes due to Daylight Saving Time through selectively redistributing the visual coding provided to one or more geographical time regions. The redistribution is effected so that that appropriate geographical time zone regions become associated with time markers which bear the same visual coding and correctly indicate their local time. In this embodiment, no shifting in the position of the individual time markers occurs.","In the case of regions which are functioning on the half hour, additional time markers beyond the normal 24 can be provided. If the normal time markers are triangular in form, e.g. equilateral triangles in shape, then additional partial triangles or other indicator images may be inserted halfway between adjacent triangles, sharing a common time indication.","Rather than adopt an additional visual coding for such a half-hour territories and half-hour time indicators, the visual coding of an adjacent, synchronous time zone may be adopted with the addition of crosshatching or other modification to the territory and indicator that will distinguish them both from adjacent territories and indicators. Optionally, with such additional distinctive feature as crosshatching applied to a territory, the depiction of an additional half-hour time indicator need not be adopted. Instead, the user will simply understand that crosshatching is an indication of a one half hour time shift, typically a half-hour advancement in time where the half-hour time zone carries the background visual coding of the next adjacent time zone territory in the counterclockwise direction.","As a further variant on the invention the time markers (adjacent to the clock scale) may incorporate a designation or code for a related geographic location present within the associated time zone. For example, the marker for eastern North America could include the words \u201cNew York\u201d. As a complementary variant, the display according to the invention may, for a highlighted time zone selected by users for highlighting, provide a list again selected by a user, of countries within the time zone and\/or cities or other important references within the time zone which qualify as significant information, so that a user can confirm that they have selected the correct time zone that includes the target geographic entity. A list of references may include entities providing commercial services, such as hotels, within the geographical area.","In one further embodiment, the current invention may be combined with a reference database including data points associated with the specific time zone. This could include a country or city within the time zone, a phone number with an area code within the time zone or a folder that contains the contact particulars for a specific person associated with the time zone By this embodiment, when a contact is selected in the address book\/contact list, etc., the time zone of the contact as an exemplary data point may be highlighted. As an example in the case of time zones with colors, the associated time zone may be highlighted by having its color changed, as for example to being white. Selection of such a data point would then allow a user to locate the time zone in which such data point is located. This helps a user understand the time that another person is experiencing. This may be implemented by including within the controller a controller sub-module that will associate the geographic area to be highlighted on the display with the reference database entry corresponding with the data points.","As a further, variant on the invention, the depiction of the map on the display may be manipulated by a user through an input control so that the map may be manually rotated within the time scale to a user-selected hypothetical time. This function may optionally operate without including the dynamic feature of a real-time clock. This function provides an easy means for determining the relationship between the time at two or more points on the Earth at any hypothetical time. By setting the time marker of one time zone to a specific time, the corresponding time in all other time zones can be seen. Using a touch-sensitive screen display or a key command or equivalent to permit manual displacement of the map with respect to the time scale, the new set of corresponding times set by a user may persist on the display for a predetermined delay, and then return automatically or \u201csnap-back\u201d to displaying the correct time.","The foregoing summarizes the principal features of the invention and some of its optional aspects. These features may be applied to other projections of the Earth in part or in full, for example the Mercator projection or a north polar projection. The invention may be further understood by the description of the preferred embodiments, in conjunction with the drawings, which now follow.","In one embodiment of the invention, as depicted in , a world time presentation is provided, comprising an electronic presentation of a circular clock face  which simultaneously displays the geography for the local time in time zones around the world. The presentation is centered about a modified South polar projection , thus rendering a recognizable world map of the Earth's surface.","Also shown in  is the manner in which the rotating world map  is divided into approximately twenty-four geographical time areas  representing time zones wherein each region is preferably provided with a colour-coding or other visual convention to visibly distinguish the respective regions. For clarity in , only two zones are marked, although in practice most or all of the geographic areas  would be visually encoded.","A series of indicia in the form of numerical hour indicators  are evenly spaced around the periphery at 15\u00b0 intervals to form a graduated annular time scale. These numbers may run as shown in , around the periphery of the circular map  in two series, ascending from 1 to 12, in this case optionally bearing an AM or PM indication. Alternately, the hour indicators may each ascending from 1 to 24, as in a standard 24 hour clock representation.","In another optional but preferred indication, which may be seen in , the hour indicators  of the annular time scale encircling world map  may be provided with a shading or other visual cue to distinguish times on the dark side  of the Earth from times on the daylight side  of the Earth that is illuminated by sunlight. In this case, the display controller  may simply present the numbers representing solar illuminated hours as those in the hemisphere divided by local noon, preferably compensated for any Daylight Saving Time correction in effect.","Also contemplated by the invention, but not shown in the Figures, the world clock presentation  may include a further overlay including a traditional analog or digital time display as is known in the prior art, such overlay typically displaying the local civil time at the user's current location in a conventional manner. Thus minute and hour hands may rotate within an independent 12 or 24-hour dial.","As illustrated in , the world time presentation may include as part of its display a series of time zone time markers  disposed along the immediate periphery of the circular world map . These time zone time markers  rotate synchronously with the world map. As can be seen in the detail view of , each time zone time marker is associated with a proximate geographic time zone located on the map, and is appropriately coloured or otherwise visually coded to correspond to its associated time zone, with marker  corresponding to geographic area , marker  corresponding to geographical areas  and , and marker  corresponding to geographical area .","As shown in all the map bearing Figures, and perhaps best in , the time zone time markers  are preferentially triangular in shape or otherwise shaped in order to precisely indicate a specific time on the annular time scale, including not only a specific hour but portions of an hour.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"As depicted in , the display controller  comprises a central processing unit, or CPU , which is connected to a digital memory addressing and data transfer bus . Also connected to memory bus  are two data storage memories, a program memory  for the storage of instructions which govern the operation of CPU , and a data memory  wherein transient operational information can be stored and recalled during CPU program execution. The program storage memory  and data storage memory  may be separate subsystems, or may simply be dedicated regions of storage within a single memory array.","CPU  is also connected to an input\/output (I\/O) data bus  for communication with, and control of a number of peripheral devices. Display interface  provides control over the actual world clock presentation display, and preferentially provides a cartesian X\/Y colour pixel addressing for the plotting of images and text.","Also connected to I\/O bus  is a user input interface  for reading the system operator's control manipulations. The user input interface may externally connect to a keyboard, keypad or other configuration of switches, a pointing device such as a desktop computer mouse, or a touch-screen type peripheral capable of sensing the device operator's interactions with the images presented on the clock display presentation itself.","A timebase peripheral  is also connected to the display controller's I\/O bus . Preferably, the timebase  is provided in the form of a real-time clock (RTC), which may automatically maintain an accurate and precise time-of-day mantissa , encoding the current Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Also preferably, the timebase  may automatically maintain a separate date mantissa , encoding the current day of the year within the UTC time zone.","It will be evident to the reader that although the timebase peripheral  described above is suggestive of a hardware real-time clock or other timekeeping integrated circuit, this particular design option is by no means restrictive. Software implementations of an RTC function may equally well be utilized, and the specific provision of the timebase clock service may ideally be of a form suitable from cost, complexity, and performance perspectives.","However timebase  is effected, in the preferred embodiment it is of the highest practical accuracy, and of a precision suitable for the generation of a suitably meaningful world clock presentation, given the resolution of the attached electronic display device. In practice, the accuracy of timebase  may reflect a relatively simple free-running Quartz crystal derived reference, or the timebase may be synchronized to a more accurate higher order reference such as an atomic clock, either by terrestrial radio reception, GPS derived signaling, or via an Internet connection to a low stratum Network Time Protocol server.","Preferably, timebase  is provided with a low-latency strobe output  to CPU , whereby the timebase can signal the CPU of the arrival of some time-related occurrence. Low-latency strobe signal  may be in the form of a digital output connected to an Interrupt Request (IRQ) input of CPU , or may be a software event signal, as for example brokered through an underlying operating system's timer application programming interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"42"},"Also shown in  is a digital Time Zone database , which may comprise a series of geographical time area records . Preferably, each record corresponds to a particular geographical area of the reference world map presentation image , wherein the area a common civil time regime of UTC offset and DST correction is kept. Each record may comprise a reference to the corresponding geographical time area's location on reference image , and the area's normal standard time offset with respect to Coordinated Universal Time. Additionally, in areas that practice DST correction, the time area record  may further comprise the area's adjusted Daylight Saving Time offset from Coordinated Universal Time, and the dates of the year that the DST offset is to be introduced and removed. Optionally and preferably, geographic time area record  may also store the precise time of day that DST adjustments are to be made within the area. Optionally and alternately, such data may be accessed remotely by the controller, as for example, over the Internet.","As in some geographical time areas DST corrections are not applied on fixed calendar dates from year to year, but instead apply on a given weekday of a certain month, provision may be made to periodically update geographic time area records  to coincide with the current year. Such updates may be conducted automatically by the display controller's  program software, as by example with reference to a perpetual calendar calculation, or by electronic record download or user input.","Preferably, as shown in , the user's current effective time zone, and optionally, geographic locational coordinates  may also be stored in data memory. The coordinates may be user entered, or automatically derived via Global Positioning System or other reference methods. The local coordinates  may be used with suitable transformation, to allow the display controller  to compute and plot a current or home location on the map representing the operator's current position.","Turning again to , the display controller may present the passage of time by periodically changing the rotation angle of the modified South polar projection world map image  and its peripheral time zone time markers , such that the externally-facing tips of markers  register against the annular time scale  at appropriate positions to indicate the effective local civil time in each geographic time area. During the course of a calendar day, therefore, the map image  is presented to the viewer as rotating about its central polar point in the clockwise direction at the rate of 24 hours per rotation.","With reference to , according to the preferred embodiment of the invention, the timebase  may periodically generate a low latency strobe signal  and present it to the CPU . Upon receipt of the strobe signal, CPU  then retrieves and executes a stored series of instructions from program memory , which may then cause it to fetch and copy the data comprising reference map image  into a suitable scratch or buffer area of memory (not shown in the Figures) for display image formulation.","The CPU  then executes a further stored series of instructions which may cause it to sequentially iterate over the geographical time area records , reading from timebase , comparing the current values of the date mantissa  and time mantissa  with the DST onset date and time, and determining the correct UTC offset in force within each geographical time area. Again following the stored instruction sequence, each area's UTC offset may then be divided by the 24 hours of a normal daily Earth revolution cycle, and the resulting fraction multiplied by the 360\u00b0 angle of the full revolution to compute the time zone time marker position angle. CPU  may then execute instructions to plot the marker at the resultant marker position angle, and apply visual indications or colours to correlate the marker with the geographic time area on the buffered map image.","After all time zone time markers and map markings have been applied, CPU  may then execute a series of instructions to rotate the buffered image of the world map and time zone time markers to the correct orientation for the current time. This operation may comprise dividing the current UTC time reading from timebase mantissa  by the 24 hours of an Earth revolution cycle, and the resulting fraction multiplied by the 360\u00b0 angle of revolution to compute the current map rotation angle. At this point, the final steps of image manipulation are to plot the annular time scale , optionally applying any desired day\/night shadings, and to copy the completed rendition of map image  from the scratch buffer to the viewable display interface  for presentation.","It can also be seen that an alternative presentation approach is possible, whereby the map image  is kept at the reference or some other fixed angle, and the annular time scale  is rotated about it by the negation of the current map rotation angle before copying for presentation.","In  is shown an alternative embodiment of the world time display, wherein a North polar projection world map  is used, with preferably triangular and colour or otherwise visually encoded time zone time markers  arrayed about the periphery of map . In this case, the map  and markers  may be rotated counter-clockwise within the annular time scale , and the time scale may be numbered in ascending hour order in the counterclockwise direction, located around the outer, circular periphery of the world map . These indicia  fully encircle the periphery of the world time display  and are distributed at equal distances from one another.","The presentation depicts the circular world map  and coloured or otherwise visually coded time markers  as rotating periodically with respect to the time indicia  on the 24-hour dial such that the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time indicia indicates the local time of each geographical time zone  shown on the map .","Again with reference to , according to this alternative embodiment of the invention, the timebase  may periodically generate a low latency strobe signal  and present it to the CPU . Upon receipt of the strobe signal, CPU  then retrieves and executes a stored series of instructions from program memory , which may then cause it to fetch and copy the data comprising reference map image  into a suitable scratch or buffer area of memory (not shown in the Figures) for display image formulation.","The CPU  then executes a further stored series of instructions which may cause it to sequentially iterate over the geographical time area records , reading from timebase , comparing the current values of the date mantissa  and time mantissa  with the DST onset date and time, and determining the correct UTC offset in force within each geographical time area. Again following the stored instruction sequence, each area's UTC offset may then be negated, and the result be divided by the 24 hours of a normal daily Earth revolution cycle. This resulting fraction may then multiplied by the 360\u00b0 angle of the full revolution to compute the time zone time marker position angle. CPU  may then execute instructions to plot the marker at the resultant marker position angle, and apply visual indications or colours to correlate the marker with the geographic time area on the buffered map image.","After all time zone time markers and map markings have been applied, CPU  may then execute a series of instructions to rotate the buffered image of the world map and time zone time markers to the correct orientation for the current time. This operation may comprise negating the current UTC time reading from timebase mantissa , and dividing the result by the 24 hours of an Earth revolution cycle. The consequent fraction of the Earth's rotation may then be multiplied by the 360\u00b0 angle of revolution to compute the current map rotation angle. At this point, the final steps of image manipulation are to plot the annular time scale , optionally applying any desired day\/night shadings, and to copy the completed rendition of map image  from the scratch buffer to the viewable display interface  for presentation.","It can here also be seen that an alternative presentation approach is possible, whereby the map image  is kept at the reference or some other fixed angle, and the annular time scale  is rotated about it by the non-negated current map rotation angle before copying for presentation.","In  is shown another alternative embodiment of the world time display, wherein a Mercator projection world map  is used, with preferably triangular and colour or otherwise visually encoded time zone time markers  arrayed about the periphery of map  in a manner logically similar to that of the polar projection embodiments described above. In this case, the map  and markers  may be translated linearly along the reference time scale , which is positioned and scaled to divide the width of Mercator projection into 24 equally spaced hour intervals. The time scale  may be numbered in ascending hour order in the left to right direction, and located along the top edge of the world map , such that time zone time markers  may index against scale  and indicate the local civil time in each associated geographical time zone.","The presentation depicts the Mercator projection world map  and coloured or otherwise visually coded time markers  as periodically moving linearly with respect to the time indicia  on the 24-hour scale , such that the alignment of the time markers with respect to the 24-hour time indicia indicates the local time of each geographical time zone shown on the map .","Referring again to , according to this alternative embodiment of the invention, the timebase  may periodically generate a low latency strobe signal  and present it to the CPU , in the same manner as described previously. Upon receipt of the strobe signal, in the Mercator projection embodiment, CPU  retrieves and executes a stored series of instructions from program memory , which may then cause it to fetch and copy the data comprising the reference map image  into a suitable scratch or buffer area of memory (not shown in the Figures) for display image formulation.","CPU  then executes a further stored series of instructions which may cause it to again sequentially iterate over the geographical time area records , reading from timebase , comparing the current values of the date mantissa  and time mantissa  with the DST onset date and time, and determining the correct UTC offset in force within each geographical time area. In this case following a variant stored instruction sequence, each area's UTC offset may then be divided by the 24 hours of a normal daily Earth revolution cycle, and the resulting fraction multiplied by the width of the reference Mercator map image , to compute the linear offset to the left or right of the prime meridian of the projection for the location of each of the time zone time markers . CPU  may then execute instructions to plot each marker at the resultant marker position offset, and apply visual indications or colours to correlate the marker with the geographic time area on the buffered map image.","After all time zone time markers and map markings have been applied, CPU  may then execute a series of instructions to plot the linear time scale , optionally applying any desired day\/night shadings. This operation may comprise plotting the time scale  to the scratch buffer such that the current UTC time reading from timebase mantissa  is aligned with the prime meridian of reference map image, continuing to plot the ascending indicia rightwards until the right hand edge of the map image has been reached. At this point the remaining indicia time scale  may be plotted ascending rightwards from the left hand edge of the map image until the scale has been completed. At this point, the final step of image manipulation is to copy the completed rendition of map image  from the scratch buffer to the viewable display interface  for presentation.","Another alternative presentation approach for the Mercator projection is possible, whereby the indicia time scale  is always plotted in the same reference position, and map image  is plotted from it's prime meridian at the intercept representing the current UTC time against scale , with the plotted copy of map image  \u201cwrapped\u201d at the rightwards edge of the scale, continuing then to be plotted starting at the left edge before copying for presentation.","The reader will note in the preceding discussion that regardless of the cartographic projection used for the reference map , the actual data storage formats and units used for the storage and arithmetic manipulation of times and angles are not critical, as long as units are kept constant throughout calculation. Depending on the design constraints, either integer, or fixed or floating point decimal representations may be used for scalar values, and angular measurements may be represented in any convenient format, for example decimal degrees, radians, grads, or mils.","It will also be evident that there are possibilities to effect certain run-time optimizations on the above image processing sequence. For example, in large geographic areas such as North America which apply DST correction simultaneously, it may be useful to have stored pre-generated subimages of the Daylight Savings and Standard Time circumstances, possibly with time zone time markers already computed and applied, cached and available for direct copy to the scratch buffer. Also, in a computing system with a dynamically varying load and constrained available resources, images may be pre-assembled during lower loading periods and indexed for the relatively low-computation effort of copying to display later when resourcing is tight.","The reader will also note that reference world image  need not be restricted to a cartographic projection, but may also be a suitably transformed and scaled representation derived from a satellite image or composite of images of the Earth, potentially with mapping markings superimposed, and that false colouration or other image manipulation techniques may be used for the visual coding of the geographic time zone areas.","In one optional and simplified embodiment of the current invention, a number of different world images may be provided and copied to the display interface  at certain appropriate times of the year. By changing the map on these appropriate days to depict the visually coded geographical time zones  that are in force for that given day, it is possible to keep a relatively accurate world time display  with a great reduction of computational requirements. According to this optional variant, a series of image changes or \u201cswaps\u201d at a number of times throughout the year may be able to substantially correctly depict the time in many locations of interest throughout the globe. In some cases it may be desirable to have many versions of maps in order to depict time zone adjustments to a desirable resolution within geographic regions.","In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the apparatus for effecting an electronic presentation of a clock is provided with a facility for Daylight Saving adjustment. The role of this feature is to adjust the clock display for regional time changes due to Daylight Saving Time.  are detailed depictions of a manner of altering the clock face of  in order to adjust the map and clock to conform to DST. In , the position of, and optionally the nature of, the coloured or otherwise visually coded time markers ,  and  correspond to regions , , and  respectively. As discussed previously, the display of such time markers , , and  may be shifted clockwise or counter-clockwise by a distance corresponding to the change arising from entering or leaving Daylight Saving Time. Thus in changing the position of any time marker, the indicated local civil time of the corresponding geographical time zone may be indicated as being advanced or retarded in accordance with Daylight Saving Time requirements.","By examining , an example of such a time marker shift can be seen.  depicts a section of the map of the current invention prior to a DST-related adjustment, while  depicts this same map after a time zone change has begun. Greenland, Halifax and New York time zone time markers , ,  with associated Greenland, Halifax and New York geographical time zone , ,  can be clearly seen. Each of these time markers is in this case hatched to correspond with its associated geographical time zone. In practicing the invention, this visual correlation may be indicated by alignment of colours, hatching, or other visual encoding cues.","Turning now to , it can be seen that the Greenland time zone time marker  has been removed. A temporary time zone time marker  is inserted in its place, between the Halifax and New York time markers  and . The temporary time marker  is in this case visually coded in the same manner as the time marker  above it. Furthermore, the geographical area  that was in  previously associated with the Greenland time marker  is now in  coloured to be associated with the newly added time zone time marker . This temporary time marker  is a \u201cplaceholder\u201d that acts as a time marker as the process of sequentially adjusting the time markers  and the boundaries of the geographical time zones  takes place. As time passes on a DST-enacting day, each time zone on the world map presentation will be altered in a different way at a different time, so a series of such alterations is necessary.","Simultaneously with the insertion of the temporary time zone time marker , the map is altered to allow sections that do not observe DST or that observe DST in a different manner than most countries to be accurately depicted on the map. In instances where only a territorial fraction of a particular time zone observes Daylight Saving Time, the specific sub-region within such time-zone which does not observe Daylight Saving Time may be recoloured in the display to adopt a colour code corresponding to an adjacent time zone having the same, post-DST change time. In , a section  of the map is originally associated with the Halifax time zone time marker , but as this area does not in this case observe DST, when the rest of the geographical areas nearby adjust for DST, section  becomes associated with the New York time zone time marker .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["13","56","54","57"]},"As may be seen in , shifting the time indicators  in their relative positions around the periphery of the world map  allows the presentation to accommodate a change to or from Daylight Saving in a corresponding geographical time zone area  without necessarily changing the overall colour or other visual coding of the corresponding territorial region. In regions where the majority of territories shift in response to Daylight Saving Time, this procedure of shifting the time indicators has the advantage of minimizing departures from any traditional or preferred visual coding provided to geographic time zone areas. Correspondingly, the expectations of viewers as to the colours of specific geographical time areas  are minimally disrupted. Thus the appearance of the world map presentation in whatever cartographic projection is adopted will be largely undisturbed for the benefit of the perception of persons viewing this presentation. Although some visual coding within certain geographical time areas may change, for the most part the individual sections of the map are able to retain substantially the same coding.","When a geographical region deviates from the more \u201cstandard\u201d time neighboring zones by less than an hour, as for example, Australian Central Standard Time's offset of 30 minutes from Western and Eastern Australian zones, such intermediate zones may be provided with a visual encoding pattern that indicates that it falls between two bordering time zones. In one embodiment, as shown in , the timezone of Australian Central Standard Time  is shown as being striped and hatched. Such marking may either indicate that the time in that time zone corresponds to the time in between the two adjacent time zones, or in the case of colour marking, the visual coding may be such that the colour used to depict the geographical region  is the subtractive mixture of the colours that make up the separate, adjacent time zone regions. For example, if a region is in between a blue time zone and a yellow time zone, and the time in that region is offset from the red and yellow time zones by half an hour, it might be displayed as an orange time zone to indicate that is the combination of the two.","Rather than adopt an additional colour for such a half-hour geographic areas  and time zone time markers , the colour of a nearby adjacent time markers may be adopted with the addition of crosshatching or other modification to visually distinguish them both from the adjacent neighbors. Optionally, with such an additional distinctive feature as crosshatching applied to a geographic area, the depiction of an additional intermediate half-hour time zone time marker  may be avoided. Instead, the user may simply understand that crosshatching is an indication of a one half hour time shift, as for example a half-hour advancement in time in the case where the intermediate time zone carries the background colour of the next adjacent time zone territory in the counterclockwise direction.","In an alternative embodiment, the presentation of the clock face  may adjust the clock display for regional time changes due to Daylight Saving Time through selectively redistributing the colour coding provided to one or more geographical time regions. The redistribution is effected so that that appropriate geographical time zone regions become associated with new time indicators which bear the same colour and correctly indicate their local time. In this embodiment, no shifting in the position of the individual coloured time indicators  occurs.","In the case of regions  which are offset with respect to time on the half hour in comparison to the nearby regions, additional time indicators  beyond the normal 24 can be provided. If the normal time indicators  are triangular in form, shaped as for example equilateral triangles, then additional triangles or other indicator images may be inserted halfway between adjacent triangles.","In another alternate embodiment of the current invention, it is possible to combine the clock of the current invention with an organizer\/address book system, whereby a user is able to visually coordinate a contact's location or suspected location with the contact's time zone on the world time display .","In such an embodiment as seen in , and with again reference to the display controller block diagram of , the world time display is provided with a user data entry and display area . The user may thereby enter a series of contact records to be registered and indexed for later recall, this contact data may be read from user input interface  and stored directly in data memory , be imported or accessed from another co-resident software application, or be remotely accessed from an ancillary off-board data store. These contact data records may comprise specifics such as the contact's address, telephone number, a direct entry of the contact's time zone, and current contact location information, possibly derived from a GPS receiver or other automatic positioning apparatus.","After the location of a contact is accessible to this embodiment of the software, it then becomes possible to use the contact information in combination with the world map presentation  of the current invention to visually display the time zone of a user. As seen in , if for example, the \u201cTEST, TEST\u201d contact is located in the GMT\u22125 time zone, the user's selection of this entry in data entry and display area  may cause the geographic time area  and associated time zone time marker  corresponding to the contact's location to have its colour or visual coding changed in order to highlight or otherwise visually discriminate it on the display. This highlighting may be done in any number of ways, such as a redrawing of the relevant area  and marker  in a specified colour, cyclical re-drawing in alternating colours or visual encodings in order to cause the area and marker to visually pulsate, or by dimming the presentation of other areas and markers of the presentation, to direct the viewer's eye focus. Additionally, the display controller  may also prepare and display a customized rotation of the presentation image, as by rotating of translating the map image and markers in order to move the contact's geographic time area  and indicator  to a position that is easy to locate, such as the topmost position or the rightmost position.","In one optional embodiment, the display controller  may, from the customized image provided above, present or provide a user control which, when activated, will present a list of countries within the time zone and\/or cities or other important references within the geographic time area which qualify as significant presentable information, such that a user can confirm that they have selected the correct time zone that includes the target geographic entity. The listed references may include information pertaining to entities providing commercial services, such as hotels or other such facilities, located within the user-selected geographical area.","According to this optional embodiment, the significant presentable information may be pre-programmed into the data memory  of display controller , imported or accessed from another co-resident software application, or remotely accessed from an ancillary off-board electronic data storage system or service. Preferably, this data store is provided in the form of an electronic database composed of searchable and randomly accessible records, which may be indexed according geographic time area and classes of entity. For example, the records may be indexed by telephonic area code or other physical or logical addressing, the types of services provided, the entity's commercial affiliation or ownership, and service particulars and pricing.","Turning again to , in yet another embodiment of the current invention, the clock face  could be manually adjustable by the user. For example, if a user located in New York (GMT\u22125) wanted to contact someone in London (GMT+0) at \u201c3 pm\u201d London time, the user could rotate the map presentation  with its associated peripheral time zone time markers  until the marker for London pointed to the point on annular time scale index  corresponding to \u201c3 pm\u201d. When the time marker for London is pointing to the \u201c3 pm\u201d numerical time indicator, a user is easily able to see that the time marker corresponding to New York points to the numerical time indicator corresponding to \u201c10 am\u201d. In a further embodiment of the invention, the clock face  might \u201csnap back\u201d to tracking and displaying the current time, either on the press of a button, or automatically after a predetermined amount of time has passed.","In another optional variant of the invention, the user may be provided an input control which allows for the setting of a temporary hypothetical date and or time, either in the past or future. According to this optional function, the display controller would prepare a world time image in the same manner as the periodically updated instruction sequence for routine timekeeping, and display the time zone circumstances that would have or will be in effect at that instant. Again according to this optional feature, the clock face  might \u201csnap back\u201d to tracking and displaying the current time, either on the press of a button, or automatically after a predetermined amount of time has passed.","Although the foregoing description relates to specific preferred embodiments of the present invention and specific processes for the electronic presentation of a clock with time zones as presently contemplated by the inventor, it will be understood that various changes, modifications and adaptations, may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention.","Conclusion","The foregoing has constituted a description of specific embodiments showing how the invention may be applied and put into use. These embodiments are only exemplary. The invention in its broadest and more specific aspects is further described and defined in the claims which now follow.","These claims, and the language used therein, are to be understood in terms of the variants of the invention which have been described. They are not to be restricted to such variants, but are to be read as covering the full scope of the invention as is implicit within the invention and the disclosure that has been provided herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
