---
title: Network real time monitoring and control system
abstract: A network real-time monitoring and control system includes several layers of components for generating a network traffic shaping control that is used to shaping network traffic flows for one or more network nodes. The layers of the network real-time monitoring and control system include a monitoring layer, an event control layer, a traffic shaping control layer, a reporting layer, and an administrative layer. The monitoring obtains network traffic indicator measurements and network node operational indicator measurements. The event control layer uses the indicator measurements to generate a network event identifier, and generates a request for a network traffic shaping control based on a correlation of the network event identifier with a network node status identifier. The request for the network traffic shaping control is communicated to the traffic shaping control layer to generate a network traffic shaping control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08089875&OS=08089875&RS=08089875
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08089875
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20090804
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of EPO Patent Application No. 09425194.9 filed May 20, 2009, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","Co-pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/535,571, titled \u201cControl Management of Voice-Over-IP Parameters,\u201d and assigned, has been filed on the same date as the present application, and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","1. Technical Field","This application relates to a network real-time monitoring and control system and, in particular, a network real-time monitoring and control system that outputs a network traffic shaping control based on correlating a network event identifier with a network node status identifier.","2. Related Art","A Public Switch Telephone Network (\u201cPSTN\u201d) typically provides the system architecture for implementing telecommunication services. However, implementing telecommunication services over a PSTN can sometimes be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, the equipment in which a provider must invest in to provide telecommunication services on a PSTN can be expensive, as well as the costs for leasing access to the PSTN. Hence, an entity that desires to enter the telecommunications marketplace would prefer an alternative to using a PSTN for providing telecommunication services.","Since the advent of the Internet, more and more entities are turning to the use of a packet-switched Next Generation Network (\u201cNGN\u201d). In general, NGN focuses on the concept of one network transporting all information and services (voice, data, and all sorts of media such as video) by encapsulating these into packets, like it is on the Internet. In addition, an NGN may provide telecommunication services and be able to make use of multiple broadband, Quality of Service-enabled transport technologies. Furthermore, the service-related functions of an NGN may be independent from underlying transport-related technologies. An NGN may also offer unrestricted access by users to different service providers.","One of the telecommunication services provided by a telecommunication service provider using an NGN may be Voice-Over-Internet-Protocol (\u201cVoIP\u201d) service. In general, a VoIP service employs session control protocols to control the set-up and tear-down of calls over a packet-switched network, such as an NGN. A VoIP service may also provide audio encoding algorithms that digitally encode speech for transmission over the packet-switched network.","As VoIP is a desirable competitor to traditional telecommunication services, a telecommunication service provider may desire to enter the telecommunications marketplace by providing VoIP service over an NGN. However, a telecommunication service provider seeking to implement VoIP services over an NGN faces unique challenges. Examples of these challenges include providing quality service during peak usage times and providing service when the number of concurrent VoIP calls meets or exceeds the number of concurrent attempted calls served by the telecommunication service provider.","This application provides for a network real-time monitoring and control system that monitors and the controls the service of VoIP calls through traffic shaping. In one implementation, the network real-time monitoring and control system includes a real-time network monitor, an event manager, a real-time status analyzer, and a control manager. The real-time network monitor monitors the traffic flow of a network node in communication with the network real-time monitoring and control system. In addition, the real-time network monitor may monitor specific indicators of traffic flow, such as signaling indicators, media treatment indicators, provisioning indicators, and others. The real-time network monitor may also monitor the performance of the network node in communication with the real-time monitoring and control system. The real-time network monitor may store one or more measurements indicative of the traffic flow or performance of the network node.","The event manager generates events that may be defined according to changes in traffic flows, changes in the performance of the network node, or both. For example, an event may be defined by whether a network node is accessible, or whether there is an increase in a traffic flow or in a network traffic indicator. In one implementation, the event manager compares the measurements taken by the real-time network monitor and compares the measurements with a previously stored threshold. An event may be defined by whether the comparison of the measurements with the previously stored threshold indicates that the measurements exceed or fall below the previously stored threshold. The event manager may also calculate performance measurements based on the measurements from the real-time network monitor, and compare the performance measurements with previously stored thresholds to determine whether an event should be generated.","The real-time status analyzer correlates events generated by the event manager to determine the network status of the network node, the traffic flows, and the general network health of the telecommunication service provider. In one implementation, the real-time status analyzer correlates the generated events with network node status identifiers defined by a network node status rule set. Each of the network node status identifiers may be associated with a network node status condition that identifies the network node status identifier when the network node status condition is satisfied. The network node status rule set may also associate network node status condition priorities with the network node status conditions. A network node status condition priority may indicate a priority level of a network node status condition such that a first network node status condition has a higher priority level than a second network node status condition. It is also possible that one or more network node status conditions have the same priority level.","Once the real-time status analyzer has correlated a generated event with a network node status, the real-time status analyzer generates a request for a network traffic shaping control. In general, a network traffic shaping control defines the behavior for a network traffic shaping appliance. In one implementation, the request is output as a suggestion to a user, who may then accept the request for the network traffic shaping control or may reject the request for the network traffic shaping control. In an alternative implementation, the request for the network traffic shaping control may be output to an automatic system that implements the network traffic shaping control, such as the control manager, which is described in more detail below.","The control manager is operative to implement the network traffic shaping control requested by the real-time status analyzer. In one implementation, the control manager automatically outputs the network traffic shaping control. In an alternative implementation, the control manager outputs the network traffic shaping control when the real-time status analyzer receives an acceptance of the network traffic shaping control. In implementing the network traffic shaping control, the control manager may calculate a network traffic shaping control intensity that specifies a network traffic intensity for the traffic flow or network node that triggered the request for the network traffic shaping control. The control manager may also specify additional parameters for the network traffic shaping control. Once implemented, the control manager outputs the network traffic shaping control to another system or device, such as a network traffic shaping appliance. While the network traffic shaping control is controlling the traffic flow or network node, the control manager handles the duration and termination of the network traffic shaping control.","Other systems, methods, features and advantages will be, or will become, apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. All such additional systems, methods, features and advantages are included within this description, are within the scope of the invention, and are protected by the following claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","102","102","104","106","108","110","112"]},"The network real-time monitoring and control system  is in communication with one or more network nodes -. In general, a network node is an electronic device capable of sending, receiving, or forwarding information over a communications channel. The network nodes - may be any type of network node. For example, one or more of the network nodes - may be data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE) such as a modem, hub, bridge or switch. Alternatively, the network nodes - may be data terminal equipment (DTE), such as a digital telephone handset, a printer or a computer. Other examples of network nodes - include a router, a workstation or a server. Additional examples of network nodes - include a public or private telephone exchange, a remote concentrator or a computer providing network service. In one implementation, the network nodes - are Session Initiation Protocol (\u201cSIP\u201d) Servers, Home Subscriber Servers, SIP Application Servers, carrier-class session border controllers, such as the Acme Packet Net-Net 4250 or Acme Packet Net-Net 4500, available from Acme Packet located in Burlington, Mass., United States.","The network nodes - receive input network traffic flows  and transmit output network traffic flows . The input network traffic flows  and output network traffic flows  may include different types of network traffic. In one example the input network traffic flows  may include signaling network traffic. An example of signaling network traffic includes network traffic from SIP network traffic, such as SIP REQUEST messages, SIP REGISTER messages, and other SIP messages. Another example of signaling network traffic is Real-Time Streaming Protocol (\u201cRTSP\u201d) network traffic. Signaling network traffic may also include network traffic from umbrella system specifications, such as the H.323 system specification that describes the use of several Telecommunication Standardization Sector (\u201cITU-T\u201d) and Internet Engineering Task Force (\u201cIETF\u201d) protocols. Other types of signaling network traffic are also contemplated.","The input network traffic flows  may further include media treatment network traffic. An example of media treatment network traffic includes the Real-Time Transport Protocol (\u201cRTP\u201d) network traffic. However, media treatment network traffic may also include other protocol network traffic that manages the real-time transmission of multimedia data over unicast or multicast network services, a fax relay standard, such as T.38, or other protocol network traffic.","Furthermore, the input network traffic flows  may include provisioning network traffic. In general, provisioning network traffic refers to network traffic that includes messages directed to the request for the provisioning of a telecommunication. However, provisioning network traffic may also include network traffic that is related to the first activation of a service for a given user. Other types of provisioning network traffic are also contemplated.","The output network traffic flows  may include network traffic output by one or more of the network nodes -. For example, the output network traffic flows  may include responses to the messages of the input network traffic flows . In one implementation, the output network traffic flows  include responses to SIP network traffic. Responses to SIP network traffic include informational responses, such as TRYING responses, RINGING responses, and other informational responses; successful responses, such as OK responses, ACCEPTED responses, and other successful responses; redirection responses, such as MULTIPLE CHOICES responses, MOVED PERMANENTLY responses, and other redirection responses; and, other types of SIP network traffic responses. The output network traffic flows  may also include responses to media treatment network traffic, provisioning network traffic, and other types of network traffic.","The input network traffic flows  and output network traffic flows  may also include network traffic in addition to signaling, media treatment, and provisioning network traffic flows. For example, the input network traffic flows  may include Address Resolution Protocol (\u201cARP\u201d) network traffic, Domain Name System (\u201cDNS\u201d) Protocol network traffic, Transmission Control Protocol (\u201cTCP\u201d) network traffic, Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d) network traffic, and other types of network traffic. Similarly, the output network traffic flows  may include responses to the aforementioned network traffic.","The monitoring layer  monitors the input network traffic flows  and output network traffic flows  of the network nodes -. By monitoring the input network traffic flows , the network real-time monitoring and control system  can identify when one or more of the network nodes - begins to destabilize or reach an instability status. For example, during an increase in SIP input network traffic, the network nodes - may be unable to satisfy all the SIP input network traffic flows . In these situations, the network nodes - may destabilize, and the quality of service provided to the SIP input network traffic may suffer.","Similar to preventing the destabilization of the network nodes - through the monitoring of input network traffic flows , the real-time monitoring and control system  may also prevent the destabilization of the network nodes - through the monitoring of the output network traffic flows . By monitoring the output network traffic flows , the network real-time monitoring and control system  can identify when one or more of the network nodes - begins to destabilize or reach an instability status. For example, during an increase in SIP output network traffic, an increase in response output network traffic, or an increase in output network traffic, the network nodes - may be unable to maintain the level of output required to satisfy all of the output network traffic flows . In these situations, the network nodes - may destabilize, and the quality of service transmitted by the network nodes - may suffer. Furthermore, because the amount of outgoing network traffic may correlate to the amount of incoming network traffic, there is a high probability that the incoming network traffic has caused the increase in outgoing network traffic. Hence, by monitoring the output network traffic flows , the network real-time monitoring and control system  can control the amount of incoming input network traffic and prevent the destabilization of the network nodes -.","In monitoring the input network traffic flows  and output network traffic flows , the monitoring layer  may establish one or more network traffic flow identifiers that identify the network traffic flows -. The network traffic flow identifiers may be stored in the monitoring layer  or in another layer of the network real-time monitoring and control system , such as the event control layer .","The real-time network and control system  may communicate with one or more probes  via the monitoring layer  to monitor the input and output network traffic flows -. In general, a network traffic probe  is a network appliance that analyzes the network traffic flows to obtain a network traffic indicator measurement that provides a measurement of a network traffic indicator for a network node. As discussed with reference to , a network traffic indicator may represent a particular network traffic type received or transmitted by a network node. The network traffic probe  may obtain the network traffic indicator measurement, and then expose the network traffic indicator measurement to the network real-time monitoring and control system  via a communication protocol, such as the Simple Network Management Protocol (\u201cSNMP\u201d).","In one implementation, the network traffic probe  is includes one or more components. For example, the network traffic probe  may include a packet analyzer and a statistic generator. Other components are also possible. In general, a packet analyzer is computer software or hardware that intercepts and logs network traffic passing over a network or part of a network. One example of a software packet analyzer is Wireshark, which is available from the Wireshark Foundation located in Davis, Calif., United States. The statistic generator is computer software or hardware that generates statistics associated with the network packets analyzed by the packet analyzer. Examples of statistics generated by the statistic generator may include the number of packets analyzed, the number of packets analyzed for a particular network traffic type, or other statistic. The statistic generator may also be configured to monitor network traffic indicators and obtain monitored network traffic indicator measurements from the monitored network traffic indicators. Other statistic operations by the statistic generator may also be possible.","The exposure of the network traffic indicator measurement may occur after the network traffic indicator measurement is obtained, or may occur in real-time while the network traffic probe  is acquiring the network traffic indicator measurement. Other timings for exposing the network traffic indicator measurement are also possible. In one implementation, a network probe exposing agent component of the network traffic probe  exposes the network traffic indicator measurement via a network traffic protocol. For example, the network probe exposing agent component may expose the network traffic indicator measurement via a network traffic protocol, such as SNMP.","In addition to monitoring the input network traffic flows  and the output network traffic flows , the monitoring layer  may also monitor the internal operations of the network nodes - via a network node probe  in communication with the network nodes - and monitoring layer . The network node probe  may be implemented in computer hardware, software, or a combination of computer hardware and software. In one implementation, the network node probe  is implemented in software and includes a statistic generator and a network probe exposing agent.","As changes in input network traffic flows  and output network traffic flows  may not be fully indicative of the stability status of the network nodes -, the network node probe  provides internal operation information of the network nodes -, such as system information relating directly to the network nodes -. For example, the network node probe  may provide such information as the number of computing cycles, the amount of free memory available to the network nodes -, the amount of memory used by the network nodes -, and other similar system information. By providing the system information to the monitoring layer , the network real-time monitoring and control system  can better account for the stability status of the network nodes -.","As another example, the monitoring layer  may also be in communication with operation support systems -. In general, an operation support system supports processes such as maintaining network inventory, provisioning services, configuring network components, and managing faults. Alternatively, or in addition, the monitoring layer  may also communicate with one or more business support system that support processes such as taking orders, processing bills, and collecting payments. The monitoring layer  may communicate with the operation support systems or business support systems to send or receive information regarding node configuration, provisioning information, performance information, or other types of information.","The network traffic indicator measurements received by the monitoring layer  are stored for later retrieval by an event control layer . The structure of the event control layer  is explained later with reference to , but, in summary, the event control layer  generates a network event identifier by comparing a retrieved network traffic indicator measurement with a network traffic indicator threshold. In general, a network event identifier identifies an event. Examples of events are discussed with reference to .","In addition, the event control layer  correlates the generated network event identifier with a network node status identifier. Correlating the generated network event identifier with the network node status identifier serves as one mechanism by which the event control layer  can determine the status of the network nodes -. In general, correlating may including identifying the network node status identifier based on the generated network event identifier, matching the network node status identifier with the generated network event identifier, or otherwise determining the network node status identifier from the generated network event identifier.","With the status of the network node identified by the network node status identifier, the event control layer  may then generate a request for a network traffic shaping control. In general, a network traffic shaping control includes instructions and parameters to shape a network traffic flow. However, a network traffic shaping control may control additional actions other than traffic shaping actions. Examples of parameters that define a network traffic shaping control include an Internet traffic protocol, a message type, a source address, a destination address, and a network traffic shaping control intensity that identifies the amount of allowed network traffic. The network traffic shaping control intensity may identify an absolute value of the maximum allowed traffic, an absolute value of the minimum allowed traffic, or other value. However, a network traffic shaping control may define additional parameters.","The event control layer  communicates the network traffic shaping control request to the traffic shaping control layer . The traffic shaping control layer  then implements a network traffic shaping control according to the network traffic shaping control request. With the implemented network traffic shaping control, the traffic shaping control  then controls the shaping of the network traffic flow.","The network real-time monitoring and control system  may also include layers for reporting and administrative functions. For example, in one implementation, the network real-time monitoring and control system  includes a reporting layer  that handles the reporting functions of the network real-time monitoring and control system . The reporting layer  may include output and input functions to provide input and output to a user via graphical user interface, or to provide input and output to another system in communication with the network real-time monitoring and control system .","Similarly, the network real-time monitoring and control system  may include an administrative layer  that handles administrative functions of the network real-time monitoring and control system . The administrative layer  may include output and input functions to provide input and output to a user via graphical user interface, or to provide input and output to another system in communication with the network real-time monitoring and control system .","Turning next to  is one example of the monitoring layer  of the network real-time monitoring and control system  shown in . The monitoring layer  may be implemented in hardware or software. As one example of a software implementation, the monitoring layer  may be implemented in the Java programming language as OpenNMS, which is an enterprise-grade network monitoring platform developed under an open source software model. OpenNMS is available from The OpenNMS Group, Inc., located in Pittsboro, N.C., United States.","In one implementation, the monitoring layer  includes a real-time network monitor  in communication with the network traffic probe  and the network node probe . The real-time monitor  monitors one or more of the traffic flows in communication with the network traffic probe . The real-time monitor  may monitor input traffic flows , output traffic flows , or other traffic flows. The monitored traffic flows may be for the same network node or different network nodes. As a first example, the real-time network monitor  monitors a first and second network traffic flow for a first network traffic node. As a second example, the real-time network monitor  monitors a first network traffic flow for a first network traffic node, and a second network traffic flow for a second network traffic node. Other examples and scenarios are also possible.","In monitoring the input and output network traffic flows -, network real-time monitor  monitors one or more network traffic indicators associated with a respective network traffic flow. The network real-time monitor  may monitor the network traffic indicators via the network traffic probe . As previously mentioned, examples of network traffic indicators a signaling indicators, media treatment indicators, provisioning indicators, and other types of network traffic indicators.","By monitoring the network traffic indicators, the real-time network monitor  obtains a monitored network traffic indicator measurement that provides a measurement of the network traffic indicator for a network node. The real-time network monitor  may monitor network traffic input indicators, network traffic output indicators, or a combination of network traffic input and network traffic output indicators.","In one implementation, the input network traffic flow  monitored by the real-time network monitor  is SIP network traffic. Examples of network traffic input indicators associated with SIP network traffic include the throughput of SIP INVITE messages incoming to the network probes -, the throughput of SIP REGISTER messages incoming to the network probes -, and the number of re-transmitted SIP REGISTER messages. As discussed below with reference to , a monitored network traffic input indicator measurement, such as the measurement of the throughput of SIP INVITE messages incoming to the network probes -, may be used to calculate a network performance measurement. Table 1 describes exemplary network traffic input indicators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Network Traffic Input",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of SIP messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of SIP REGISTER"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of SIP INVITE messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of re-transmitted"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of re-transmitted SIP"]},{"entry":[{},{},"REGISTER messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Throughput","The number of re-transmitted SIP"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVITE messages."]},{"entry":[{},"Syntax and Semantic","Percentage of the number of malformed"]},{"entry":[{},{},"requests."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In addition to network traffic input indicators, the real-time network monitor  may monitor network traffic output indicators associated with one or more output network traffic flows . Using SIP network traffic as an example, the real-time network monitor  may monitor such network traffic output indicators as the response time to answer SIP INVITE messages output from a network node, the response time to answer SIP REGISTER messages output from a network node, or another network traffic output indicators. Table 2 below describes exemplary network traffic output indicators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Network Traffic Output",{}]},{"entry":["Indicator Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Throughput","The number of SIP messages."]},{"entry":["Throughput","The number of SIP REGISTER"]},{"entry":[{},"messages."]},{"entry":["Throughput","The number of SIP INVITE messages."]},{"entry":["Syntax and Semantic","Percentage of the number of messages"]},{"entry":[{},"that are redirection or failure responses."]},{"entry":["Syntax and Semantic","Percentage of the number of malformed"]},{"entry":[{},"requests."]},{"entry":["Response Time","The maximum response time at the"]},{"entry":[{},"95th percentile for SIP messages."]},{"entry":["Transmission Quality","The mean packet loss for an"]},{"entry":[{},"established SIP session."]},{"entry":["Transmission Quality","The mean packet delay for an"]},{"entry":[{},"established SIP session."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In determining response time for the network traffic output indicators, the real-time network monitor  may monitor for incoming messages having a specific payload. For example, to determine the response time for SIP INVITE messages output from a network node, the real-time network monitor  may monitor for response messages having a specific SIP status code, such as an SIP status code of 180 (\u201cRinging\u201d), 183 (\u201cSession Progress\u201d), 200 (\u201cOK\u201d), or other SIP status code. Alternatively, the real-time network monitor  may monitor for response messages having a range of SIP status codes, such as SIP status codes in the range of 300-699. Similarly, to determine the response time to answer SIP REGISTER messages, the real-time network monitor  may monitor for response messages having a specific SIP status code, or response messages having an SIP status code from a range of SIP status codes, such as SIP status codes in the range of 200-699.","By monitoring network traffic indicators, the real-time network monitor  can keep the real-time monitoring and control system  informed as to whether the network nodes - are meeting the network needs of the network traffic flows -. Moreover, the real-time monitoring and control system  can use the network traffic indicator measurements to determine the stability status of the network nodes -. Fluctuations in network traffic indicator measurements may indicate that one or more network nodes - are experiencing instability, an increase or decrease in network traffic, or that one of the network nodes - is about to suffer an outage.","In addition to network traffic indicators, the real-time network monitor  may also monitor network node operational indicators via network node probe . As monitoring the network traffic flows - may not provide complete information relating to the stability status of the network nodes -, the monitored network node operational indicators provide information relating directly to the network nodes -. Examples of monitored network node operational indicators include the idle CPU quantity, the quantity of CPU used by the kernel of the network node, the quantity of CPU used by user processes of the network node, the quantity of CPU used by processes waiting for input\/output resources, the quantity of CPU used to verify interrupts, the total quantity of memory installed, the total quantity of available memory, the number of requests on a database, or other operational indicators. The operational indicator measurements of the operational indicators may be used to calculate additional measurements, such as time-derivative measurements. Furthermore, monitoring the network node operational indicators provides an indication as to the stability status of the network node that may not be apparent from monitoring the network traffic indicators. Table 3 below describes exemplary network node operational indicators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Network Node Operational",{}]},{"entry":["Indicator Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of idle CPU usage."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of CPU usage used by"]},{"entry":[{},"kernel."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of CPU usage used by"]},{"entry":[{},"user processes."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of CPU usage used by"]},{"entry":[{},"processes waiting for input\/output"]},{"entry":[{},"resources."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of CPU usage used to"]},{"entry":[{},"verify interrupts."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of available memory."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The quantity of memory in use."]},{"entry":["Basic Software","The number of open sockets."]},{"entry":["Middleware","The number of active threads."]},{"entry":["Middleware","The number of running processes."]},{"entry":["Middleware","The number of errors."]},{"entry":["Middleware","The number of exceptions."]},{"entry":["Application","The number of active network nodes"]},{"entry":[{},"on the network."]},{"entry":["Application","The number of inactive network nodes"]},{"entry":[{},"on the network."]},{"entry":["Application","The total number of network nodes on"]},{"entry":[{},"the network."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The real-time network monitor  includes several components to facilitate the monitoring of the network traffic indicators and network node operational indicators. In one implementation, the real-time network monitor  includes a measurement manager , a measurement ETL manager , and a monitored network traffic database . The measurement manager  may manage the measurement and monitoring of the network traffic indicators and the network node operational indicators. In addition, the measurement manager  may also handle communications and message passing with the event control layer . The measurement ETL manager  manages the manipulation of the network traffic indicator measurements and the network node operational indicator measurements. For example, the measurement ETL manager  may receive the indicator measurements from the network traffic probe  and the network node probe , transform the indicator measurements to fit within an expected format or other construct, and populate the monitored network traffic database  with the indicator measurements. Furthermore, the measurement ETL manager  may operate in conjunction with the measurement manager  to extract the indicator measurements from the monitored network traffic database  and communicate the indicator measurements to the event control layer .","The components of the monitoring layer  may be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination of hardware and software. For example, the components of the real-time network monitor , such as the measurement manager  and measurement ETL manager , may be implemented in software. In one implementation, the measurement manager  and the measurement ETL manager  are implemented as computer software daemons, including a poller daemon, a discovery daemon, a capture service daemon, and a collect daemon. However, alternative or additional daemons are also possible.","Each of the real-time network monitor daemons may be configured to perform one or more specific operations. For example, the poller daemon may be configured to verify the connection with the network nodes - using one or more network traffic protocols, such as Internet Control Message Protocol (\u201cICMP\u201d), SNMP, or other network traffic protocols. As another example, the discovery daemon may be configured to discover new network nodes that have been added to the network. As yet another example, the capture service daemon may be configured to discover services exposed by the network nodes -, discover services exposed by the probes -, or other service discovery operations. The capture service daemon may be configured to discover the exposed services via a network traffic protocol, such as SNMP or other protocol. As a further example, the collect daemon may be configured to monitor the network traffic indicators and obtain network traffic indicator measurements. The collect daemon may also be configured to monitor network node operational indicators and obtain network node operational indicator measurements. With each real-time network monitor daemon configured to perform a specific operation, the monitoring layer  reduces the time it takes for the real-time network monitor  to obtain the network traffic indicator measurements and network node operational indicator measurements.","The real-time network monitor  stores the monitored network traffic indicator measurements and network node operational indicator measurements in a monitored network traffic database  in communication with the real-time network monitor . In one implementation, the measurement ETL manager  obtains the indicator measurements from the network traffic probes  and network node probes , and stores the indicator measurements in the monitored network traffic database .","As the network traffic indicator measurements and network node operational indicator measurements change over time due to fluctuations in input network traffic, output network traffic, and available network node system resources, the real-time network monitor  may be configured to store the indicator measurements in the monitored network traffic database  at predefined time intervals, such as every 5 milliseconds, every 10 seconds, or any other predefined time interval. By storing the indicator measurements at predefined time intervals, the real-time network monitor  ensures that the indicator measurements stored in the monitored network traffic database  are current indicator measurements. By having access to current indicator measurements, the network real-time monitoring and control system  can respond more readily to changes in the stability status of one or more network nodes -.","To store the indicator measurements at predefined time intervals, the monitored network traffic database  may be implemented as a round-robin database. In general, a round-robin database describes a database in which time-series data is stored. Examples of time-series data includes data such as network bandwidth, temperatures, free CPU capacity, available program memory, and other data. A round-robin database may be configured to store the data in such a way that system storage footprint remains constant over time. A database configured as a round-robin database avoids resource expensive purge jobs and reduces complexity. An example of an available round-robin database is RRDtool, which is available from Oetiker+Partner AG, located in Olten, Switzerland. However, alternative databases may be used as the monitored network traffic database , such as a relational database, a hierarchical database, network-model database, or other type of database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["106","102","106","106"]},"The event control layer  may include several components and databases. In one implementation, the components of the event control layer  include an event management layer , a real-time status analyzer , and a control management layer . The databases of the event control layer  include a network performance and threshold profile database , an event log database , a control request log database, , a control log database , a scoring database , and a service model database . Other databases and components are also possible.","The databases - may be implemented as individual databases, as tables of a larger database, or in any other configuration of databases or as a single database. In one implementation, the databases - are implemented as a single object-relational database management system. An example of an object-relational database management system is PostgreSQL, which is available from the PostgreSQL Foundation located in Arlington, Va., United States. However, other implementations of the databases - are also possible.","The event manager layer  is configured to generate a network event identifier that identifies an event. The event manager layer  is also configured to manage network event identifiers generated by other layers of the real-time monitoring and control system . In general, an event may indicate an incidence or occurrence that has happened. In addition, events may relate to changes in the network traffic flows -, changes in the network traffic indicators, changes in network nodes, -, or other changes. The event manager layer  may communicate the generated network event identifier to one or more components of the network real-time monitoring and control system  to provide status information or status updates. Moreover, the components of the network real-time monitoring and control system  may react to the network event identifiers generated by the event manager layer . For example, a network event identifier may be used to initiate a network traffic shaping control, or, as discussed with reference to , to change the state of a network traffic shaping control.","In one implementation, the event manager layer  includes an event manager , a Network Performance Indicator (\u201cNPI\u201d) manager , and a filtering and aggregation manager  to facilitate the generation of network event identifiers. The components of the event manager layer  may be configured for specific operations. For example, the filtering and aggregation manager  may be configured to receive and filter network indicator measurements from the monitoring layer . Filtering the network indicator measurements from the monitoring layer  may ensure that the event manager  or NPI manager  receives relevant network traffic indicator measurements for generating network event identifiers, and that the event manager layer  is not overloaded with extraneous network traffic indicator measurements.","In one implementation, the filtering and aggregation manager  filters predetermined network traffic indicator measurements. For example, the filtering and aggregation manager  may be configured to filter network traffic indicator measurements associated with specific network traffic, such as network traffic indicator measurements for ARP network traffic. As another example, the filtering and aggregation manager  may be configured to filter network traffic indicator measurements associated with a specific network traffic indicator, such as SIP REGISTER messages for an SIP network traffic flow. The filtering and aggregation manager  may further be configured to filter network traffic indicator measurements associated with a network traffic flow or associated with a network node. However, the filtering and aggregation manager  may also be configured to receive any and all types of network traffic indicator measurements communicated by the monitoring layer .","The NPI manager  is configured to generate network performance measurements based on network performance equations and the network indicator measurements received from the monitoring layer . In general, a network performance measurement refers to a value that is derived from a network indicator measurement. In addition, a network performance measurement may be a time derivative measurement for a network indicator measurement. Alternatively, the network performance measurement may indicate a rate of change between network indicator measurements.","In one implementation, the NPI manager  is implemented as a computer software daemon, and generates the network performance measurements by receiving the network indicator measurements from the monitored network traffic database  and applying the network indicator measurements to a network performance equation retrieved from the network performance and threshold profile database . In another implementation, the filtering and aggregation manager  retrieves network indicator measurements from the monitored network traffic database  and communicates the retrieved network indicator measurements to the NPI manager . The NPI manager  may then execute the network performance equation to obtain a network performance measurement.","The NPI manager  may be configured to generate one or more types of network performance measurements. For example, the NPI manager  may generate network input performance measurements, network output performance measurements, network node performance measurements, or other network performance measurements. The NPI manger  may then store the generated network performance indicator in one or more of the databases -. Alternatively, the NPI manager  may store the generate network performance indicator in a layer different than the event control layer . For example, in one implementation, the NPI manager  stores the network performance measurement in the monitored network traffic database  of the monitoring layer . In this implementation, the NPI manager  stores the network performance measurement in the monitored network traffic database  to ensure that the network performance measurement is the most current network performance measurement available to the network real-time monitoring and control system . The stored network performance measurement may then be retrievable by any of the components in the monitoring layer , the event control layer , traffic shaping control layer , or other layer.","The NPI manager  may generate network performance measurements that correspond to the received network indicator measurements. For example, the NPI manager  may generate network input performance measurements, network output performance measurements, network node performance measurements, or other network performance measurements. Network input performance measurements may be based on network traffic input indicator measurements. Exemplary network input performance measurements include a time derivative measurement of throughput of SIP INVITE messages incoming to a network node and a time derivative measurement of throughput of SIP REGISTER messages incoming to a network node. Similarly, network output performance measurements may be based on network traffic output indicator measurements. Exemplary network output performance measurements include a time derivative measurement of response time to answer SIP INVITE messages output from a network node and a time derivative measurement of response time to answer SIP REGISTER messages output from a network node. Likewise, network node performance measurements may be based on network node operational indicator measurements. Exemplary network node performance measurements include a CPU percentage usage amount that indicates the percentage of used CPU normalized for the number of processors in the network real-time monitoring and control system  and a memory percentage usage amount that indicates the percentage of memory used by the network real-time monitoring and control system . However, a network input performance measurement, a network output performance measurement, or a network node performance measurement may be based on any combination of network traffic input indicator measurements, network traffic output indicator measurements, and network node operational indicator measurements.","Similar to the network indicator measurements, the NPI manager  may generate the network performance measurements according to a predefined time interval. The predefined time interval for generating the network performance measurement may be the same as, or different than, the predefined time interval for generating the network indicator measurements. In addition, the predefined time interval for generating network performance measurements may be differentiated according to individual network performance measurements or network performance measurement type.","In addition, the network performance measurements may be differentiated according to a differentiating schema. For example, the network performance measurements may be differentiated according to network traffic flow, network node, or other differentiating schema.","In generating the network performance measurements, the NPI manager  may retrieve one or more network performance equations from the network performance and threshold profile database . Table 4 below shows an exemplary network performance and threshold profile database schema for defining network performance equations in the network performance and threshold profile database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Column Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID_INDICATOR","A unique indicator of the network"]},{"entry":[{},"performance indicator."]},{"entry":["NAME","A mnemonic name of the network"]},{"entry":[{},"performance indicator."]},{"entry":["DESCRIPTION","A brief description of the network"]},{"entry":[{},"performance measurement defined by"]},{"entry":[{},"the network performance equation."]},{"entry":["ALAS_OPENNMS","An identifier used to reference the"]},{"entry":[{},"network performance equation."]},{"entry":["TYPOLOGY","Describes the classification of the"]},{"entry":[{},"network performance measurement"]},{"entry":[{},"defined by the network performance"]},{"entry":[{},"equation."]},{"entry":["FUNCTION","The network performance equation that"]},{"entry":[{},"defines the network performance"]},{"entry":[{},"measurement."]},{"entry":["NETWORK_NODE","A unique identifier of the network node"]},{"entry":[{},"the to which the network performance"]},{"entry":[{},"indicator refers."]},{"entry":["KPI_NODE","An identifier that identifiers the network"]},{"entry":[{},"node where the network performance"]},{"entry":[{},"indicator is measured."]},{"entry":["ID_ANAG_INDICATORS","A reference to the type of indicators for"]},{"entry":[{},"the network performance indicator."]},{"entry":["ENABLED","An identifier that indicates whether the"]},{"entry":[{},"network performance indicator is active"]},{"entry":[{},"and calculated from the system."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"A network performance and threshold profile database schema provides a flexible and convenient template for defining complex network performance equations that define network performance measurements. Table 5 shows one example of a network performance equation record that defines a network performance equation for determining a CPU percentage usage amount network node performance measurement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Parameter Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID_INDICATOR","15"]},{"entry":["NAME","SS_MIK05"]},{"entry":["DESCRIPTION","Percentage Used CPU"]},{"entry":["ALIAS_OPENNMS","percentageUsedCPU"]},{"entry":["TYPOLOGY","NPI"]},{"entry":["FUNCTION","100 \u2212 A29\/round ((A29 + A36 + A43 +"]},{"entry":[{},"A50 + A57 + A64)\/100, 3)"]},{"entry":["NETWORK_NODE","20"]},{"entry":["KPI_NODE","20"]},{"entry":["ID_ANAG_INDICATORS","\u20024"]},{"entry":["ENABLED","TRUE"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Table 6 shows one example of a network performance equation record that defines a network performance equation for determining",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 6"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Parameter Name","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ID_INDICATOR","22"]},{"entry":[{},"NAME","SS_MIK012"]},{"entry":[{},"DESCRIPTION","Percentage of memory used by SIP"]},{"entry":[{},{},"SERVER"]},{"entry":[{},"ALIAS_OPENNMS","percentUsedMem"]},{"entry":[{},"TYPOLOGY","NPI"]},{"entry":[{},"FUNCTION","100 * (1 \u2212 (A73\/A72))"]},{"entry":[{},"NETWORK_NODE","20"]},{"entry":[{},"KPI_NODE","37"]},{"entry":[{},"ID_ANAG_INDICATORS","\u20025"]},{"entry":[{},"ENABLED","TRUE"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The NPI manager  evaluates the network performance equation stored in the function field of the network performance record to generate the network performance measurement. In addition, the values in the function field of Tables 5-6 refer to other network indicator measurements and network performance measurements. Table 7 provides examples of the references referred by the function field of the network performance equation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Function Field",{},{}]},{"entry":["Parameter","Variable Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["A26","ssCPURawIdle","Number of CPU cycles while idle."]},{"entry":["A36","ssCPURawKernel","Number of CPU cycles used for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the kernel."]},{"entry":["A43","ssCPURawSystem","Number of CPU cycles used for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the system."]},{"entry":["A50","ssCPURawUser","Number of CPU cycles used to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"execute user program."]},{"entry":["A57","ssCPURawWait","Number of CPU cycles used while"]},{"entry":[{},{},"waiting for input\/output resources."]},{"entry":["A64","ssCPURawNice","Number of CPU cycles used due"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to an interrupt."]},{"entry":["A72","N\/A","Amount of available physical"]},{"entry":[{},{},"memory on a server in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"sampling moment."]},{"entry":["A73","N\/A","Amount of physical memory in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"server."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The event manager  uses the network performance measurements and network indicator measurements to generate network event identifiers. The event manager  is also configured to handle the management of network event identifiers generated by other components of the network real-time monitoring and control system . The event manager  provides a centralized component for handling network event identifiers that may be generated by multiple components. Furthermore, the event manager  may be configured to communicate network event identifiers generated by a first component to a second component, where the second component relies on the network event identifier to perform a task or operation. Hence, as components are added to the network real-time monitoring and control system, added components may be configured to communicate with the event manager  or the event control layer  directly rather than having to be configured with every component in the network real-time monitoring and control system . With the event manager  configured to manage and log generated network event identifiers, the other components of the network real-time monitoring and control system  can be configured to perform operations without the complex overhead of being configured to manage network event identifiers or unknown future components that may be added later to the network real-time monitoring and control system .","The event manager  may be implemented as computer hardware, computer software, or both. In one implementation, the event manager  is implemented as computer software daemon written in the Java computer programming language. The event manager  may be configured to listen for data and notifications on a predefined TCP port and, in response to the received data and notifications from the predefined TCP port, generate network event identifiers that are communicated to one or more components of the event control layer . For example, the event manager  may communicate network event identifiers to the real-time status analyzer . As another example, the event manager  may communicate the network event identifiers to an event log database , which may then be accessed by other components of the event control layer .","The network indicator measurements and network performance measurements of the monitoring layer  are communicated to the event manager . In one implementation, the event manger  retrieves the network indicator measurements and network performance measurements from the monitored network traffic database . In another implementation, the filtering and aggregation manager  retrieves the network indicator measurements and network performance measurements from the monitored network traffic database , and communicates the network indicator measurements and network performance measurements to the event manager . The filtering and aggregation manager  may further filter the retrieved network indicator measurements and network performance measurements to communicate a predefined type of network indicator measurement and\/or network performance measurement to the event manager . However, the event manager  may also access other databases to retrieve the network performance measurements and network indicator measurements, such as any of the databases -.","In one implementation, the network performance and threshold profile database  may store a network performance threshold profile and a network indicator threshold profile. The network performance threshold profile may also be configured by a user or other system, such as through administrative layer . The network performance threshold profile may define network performance thresholds for one or more network performance measurements. For example, the network performance threshold profile may define network input performance thresholds for network input performance measurements, network output performance thresholds for network output performance measurements, and network node performance thresholds for network node performance measurements. Other network performance thresholds are also possible. Similarly, the network indicator threshold profile may define network indicator thresholds for one or more network indicator measurements. For example, the network indicator threshold profile may define network traffic input indicator thresholds for network traffic input indicator measurements, network traffic output indicator thresholds for network traffic output indicator measurements, and network node operational indicator thresholds for network node operational indicator measurements. Other types and combinations of network performance thresholds and network indicator thresholds are also possible. Furthermore, one or more network performance threshold profiles and one or more network indicator threshold profiles are also possible that define the network performance thresholds and network indicator thresholds, respectively.","In addition, the network performance threshold profile and the network indicator threshold profile may distinguish between different types of thresholds. For example, the profiles may define a warning threshold and a critical threshold. The warning threshold may be less than the critical threshold. The warning threshold may be a threshold where one or more network nodes are approaching an instability status. A critical threshold may be a threshold where one or more network nodes have reached an instability status. By defining and distinguishing warning thresholds and critical thresholds, the network real-time monitoring and control system  can attempt to prevent one or more network nodes - from reaching an instability status if a warning threshold has been reached. In other words, the warning thresholds may serve as a warning to the network real-time monitoring and control system  that one or more network nodes are about to become unstable.","The event manager  compares the network performance measurements and network indicator measurements with the network performance thresholds and network indicator thresholds, respectively, to generate network event identifiers. Network event identifiers may be implemented in a computer markup language, such as the Extensible Markup Language (\u201cXML\u201d). However, other computer languages that use a set of annotations to text that give instructions regarding the structure of text or how it is to be displayed may also be used.","The event manager  may be configured to generate a network event identifier based on a comparison of the network performance measurement with a network performance threshold, such as when the network performance measurement exceeds or falls below the network performance threshold. Similarly, the event manager  may be configured to generate a network event identifier based on a comparison of a network indicator measurement with a network indicator threshold, such as when a network indicator measurement exceeds or falls below a network indicator threshold. As one example, the event manager  may generate a network event identifier when a network traffic input indicator measurement, such as the number of SIP REGISTER messages received by a network node, exceeds a network traffic input indicator threshold, such as a total number of SIP REGISTER messages that can be received by the network node. As another example, the event manager  may generate a network event identifier when a network input performance measurement, such as the time derivative measurement of SIP REGISTER messages received by a network node, exceeds a network input performance threshold, such as the maximum rate at which the network node can receive SIP REGISTER messages.","Moreover, the event manager  may generate a network event identifier according to a combination of comparative measurements of network indicator thresholds and\/or network performance thresholds. For example, the event manger  may generate a network event identifier when a first network input performance threshold is exceeded and a second network input performance threshold is exceeded. As another example, the event manager  may generate a network event identifier when a first network input performance threshold is exceeded and a first network node operational indicator threshold is exceeded. Other comparative combinations are also possible.","In general, the event manager  may be configured to generate any type of network event identifier. Table 8 below lists exemplary network event identifiers accompanied by corresponding descriptions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 8"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Network event identifier","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA","Identifies an event for automatically"]},{"entry":[{},"terminating a network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},"control due to a network probe outage."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA_KO","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier"]},{"entry":[{},"EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA"]},{"entry":[{},"has raised an error."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA_OK","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier"]},{"entry":[{},"EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA"]},{"entry":[{},"has correctly executed."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC","Identifies an event where the network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control should be"]},{"entry":[{},"terminated automatically."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_KO","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC"]},{"entry":[{},"has raised an error."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OK","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated to the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC"]},{"entry":[{},"has correctly executed."]},{"entry":["EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OUT_SONDA","Identifies an event where a network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control should be"]},{"entry":[{},"automatically deleted due to an outage of"]},{"entry":[{},"a network probe."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NODE_UP","Identifies an event where a network node"]},{"entry":[{},"is active and reachable."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NODE_UP_KO","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_NODE_UP has raised"]},{"entry":[{},"an error."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NODE_UP_OK","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_NODE_UP correctly"]},{"entry":[{},"executed."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NOTIF_OUT_ISTANZA_SERVER","Identifies an event for an outage of a"]},{"entry":[{},"server instance that may be notified."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NOTIF_OUT_SONDA","Identifies an event for an outage of the"]},{"entry":[{},"probes for notification."]},{"entry":["EVENT_NOTIF_THR","Identifies an event for an"]},{"entry":[{},"exceeding\/rearmed threshold for a"]},{"entry":[{},"particular indicator\/NPI that may be"]},{"entry":[{},"notified."]},{"entry":["EVENT_SUGG_CONTR","Identifies an event where a network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control has been"]},{"entry":[{},"suggested."]},{"entry":["EVENT_THR","Identifies an event for an"]},{"entry":[{},"exceeding\/rearmed threshold for a"]},{"entry":[{},"particular indicator\/NPI"]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR","Identifies an event where a network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control has been"]},{"entry":[{},"accepted."]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_KO","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic with the network event identifier"]},{"entry":[{},"EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR has raised"]},{"entry":[{},"an error."]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_OK","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR"]},{"entry":[{},"has been correctly executed."]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_ANN_CONTR","Identifies an event where a network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control has been"]},{"entry":[{},"canceled."]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR","Identifies an event where a network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control has been"]},{"entry":[{},"terminated."]},{"entry":["EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR_OK","Identifies an event where the control"]},{"entry":[{},"logic associated with the network event"]},{"entry":[{},"identifier EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR"]},{"entry":[{},"has been correctly executed."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The control logic referred to by Table 8 may be implemented by one or more of the components - of the event control layer . For example, the control logic may be implemented by the real-time status analyzer  and control management layer . Alternatively, the control logic may be implemented by the filtering and aggregation manager , the control selector , and the control manager . Alternative implementations of the control logic are also possible.","In addition to generating network event identifiers based on comparisons of network performance thresholds and network indicator thresholds, the event manager  may be configured to manage network event identifiers generated from other components of the real-time monitoring and control system , such as from the monitoring layer . For example, the event manager  may receive a network event identifier from the monitoring layer  regarding the status of a network node. The network event identifier may indicate that the network node is active and reachable. In this example, the event manager  may receive an EVENT_NODE_UP network event identifier. As another example, the event manager  may receive a network event identifier regarding the status of a network probe, such as the network traffic probe  or the network node probe . The network event identifier may indicate that the network probe has failed or has suffered an outage. Where the network probe has failed or has suffered an outage, the event manager  may receive an EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA network event identifier. Other types of network event identifiers are also possible.","The event manager  may communicate the generated network event identifiers to the real-time status analyzer . The real-time status analyzer  handles the generation of requests for a network traffic shaping control. The real-time status analyzer  may be implemented in computer hardware or computer software. In one implementation, real-time status analyzer  is implemented as an event receiver queue, a computer software thread containing a network event identifier hash table, and a main control thread. The event receiver queue is configured to receive network event identifiers from the event manager  and distribute the network event identifiers to the real-time status manager  and the real-time event correlator . The event receiver queue may be implemented as a Java Message Service (\u201cJMS\u201d) queue deployed in a JBoss application server. The JBoss application server is available from JBoss, which is a division of Red Hat, and located in Atlanta, Ga., United States. The computer software thread containing the network event identifier hash table contains hashes of all the events associated with a network node. The filtering and aggregation manager  and the real-time event correlator  may store network state identifiers in the hash table, and when a change in state is requested, the main control thread communicates requests for network traffic shaping controls to the control management layer . In one implementation, the real-time status manager  is the main control thread.","The real-time status analyzer  includes a real-time event manager  and the real-time event correlator . The real-time event correlator  correlates the network event identifier with a network node status identifier that identifies the status of the network node associated with the network event identifier. As a network event identifier may not specify the stability status of a network node, the configuration of the real-time event correlator  facilitates the identification of an instability status given a network event identifier. Moreover, as the correlation of a single network event identifier may not identify an instability status, the real-time event correlator  may be configured to correlate multiple network event identifiers with a single network node status identifier. Hence, as different network event identifiers are generated across the components of the network real-time monitoring and control system , the real-time event correlator  simplifies the task of identifying an instability status.","In one implementation, the real-time event correlator  interacts with the service model database  to correlate network event identifiers with a network node. The real-time correlator may be implemented as a messenger queue, such as a JMS queue, deployed on a JBoss application server and as a software thread that contains the status of a network node. Alternatively, or in addition, the real-time event correlator  may include a business rules engine or other software that executes rules to make decisions. The real-time event correlator  may further include facts and assertions for executing the rules, and the facts and assertions may comprise network event identifiers, network indicator measurements, network performance measurements, and other facts and assertions. The real-time event correlator  may receive one or more network event identifiers from one or more layers -, such as the monitoring layer  or the event control layer , using the JMS queue, and then interacts with the service model database  based on the received network event identifier. The real-time event correlator  may also be implemented as part of a JMS queue controller and a Java class logic.","The real-time status manager  generates a request for a network traffic shaping control based on the correlation of the network event identifier with the network node status identifier. The real-time status analyzer  may also communicate one or more network event identifiers to the event manager  that identifies the actions taken by the real-time status analyzer .","The real-time event correlator  may correlate network event identifiers with a network node status identifier according to a predefined node status rule set. The real-time event correlator  receives network event identifiers and, based on the status of one or more indicators for a network node, identifies a potential beginning of network node instability. The real-time event correlator  may refer to the service model database  to correlate the network event identifier with the network node and with the real-time status manager .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","402","402"]},"The node status rule set  may include node status rule components such as one or more of a network node status identifier , a network node status condition , a network node status condition priority , and a network node status scenario . Alternative node status rule components are also possible.","The network node status identifier  identifies an instability status of one or more of the network nodes -. As shown in , the node status rule set  includes six network node status identifiers  labeled as R, R, R, R, R, and R to identify status of a network node. The node status rule set  may be used to identify an instability status of any of the network nodes -. A single node status rule set  may associated with all of the network nodes -. Alternatively, each network node - may be associated with its own node status rule set . The node status rule set  may include alternative network node status identifiers than those shown in .","Each network node status identifiers  is associated with a network node status condition . A network node status condition  may be one or more conditions that are satisfied according to one or more network event identifiers. As a network node status condition  may be satisfied based on one or more network event identifiers, the network node status condition  provides a streamlined mechanism for evaluating complex and disparate network event identifiers.","Using a network event identifier, the real-time event correlator  attempts to evaluate and\/or satisfy the network node status conditions . When a network node status condition  is satisfied, the associated network node status identifier  is identified. As a first example, where the network event identifier identifies that an input indicator threshold, such as an input SIP INVITE critical threshold, has been exceeded, the real-time event correlator  identifies that the network node status condition  associated with the node status identifier R has been satisfied. Hence, the real-time event correlator  correlates the network event identifier associated with an exceeded input SIP INVITE critical threshold with the network instability status identifier R. As a second example, where a one or network event identifiers identify that one or more input indicator thresholds, such as an input SIP REGISTER warning threshold, have been exceeded and two or more network event identifiers identify that two or more network performance measurement warning thresholds have been exceeded, the real-time event correlator  identifies that the network node status condition  associated with the node status identifier R has been satisfied. Hence, in this second example, the real-time event correlator  correlates network event identifiers with the network instability status identifier R.","The node status rule set  also includes a network node status condition priority . The network node status condition priority  indicates a priority level associated with a corresponding network node status condition . The network node status condition priority  may be different for each network node status conditions . Alternatively, two or more network node status conditions  may have the same network node status condition priority .","The real-time event correlator  may be configured to evaluate the network node status condition  according to its associated priority level identified by the network node status condition priority . For example, as shown in , the real-time event correlator  may evaluate the R network node status condition, which as the highest level priority, first; the R network node status condition second; the R network node status condition third; the R network node status condition fifth; and the R network node status condition, which has the lowest level priority, sixth. Because the network node status condition priorities  identify a priority level of the network node status conditions , the network node status condition priorities  establish a priority order in which network traffic shaping controls are applied to network traffic flows and\/or network nodes. In some circumstances, there may be uncertainties as to which network traffic shaping control to apply first. Hence, the network node status priority  assists in the resolution of conflicts among simultaneously satisfied network node status conditions . In addition, the network node status condition priority  facilitates the evaluation of a network node status condition that may be considered more severe than other network node status conditions. Accordingly, the network real-time monitoring and control system  can take quicker action to implement a network traffic shaping control where a network node status condition with a high priority is satisfied by generated network node network event identifiers.","The node status rule set  may also include a node status scenario . In one implementation, the node status scenario  describes the system situation under which the network node status condition  has been satisfied. The node status scenario  may provide system information, network node information, network traffic flow information, or other information. Furthermore, the node status scenario  may be displayed on a graphical user interface or other output interface, such as a printer or audio speaker. For example, where the R network node status condition is satisfied, the real-time event correlator  may communicate the R node status scenario  to the reporting layer  for outputting to a display or other system or device.","Referring back to , when a network node status condition  is satisfied, the real-time event correlator  may communicate the network node status identifier to the real-time status manager . Alternatively, the real-time event correlator  may generate a network event identifier indicating the identified network node status identifier, and may communicate the generated network event identifier to the event manager  for further processing. Hence, the real-time status manager  may receive the network node status identifier via a component other than the real-time event correlator , such as the event manager .","Based on the correlation of the network event identifier with the network node status identifier, the real-time status manager  may generate a request for a network traffic shaping control. In one implementation, the real-time status manager  communicates the request for a network traffic shaping control to a control request log database . The request for the network traffic shaping control may be read from the control request log database  from one or more components, such as the control management layer . In another implementation, the real-time status manager  generates a network event identifier that contains a request for a network traffic shaping control and communicates the network event identifier to the event management layer . The network event identifier containing the request for the network traffic shaping control may then be stored on the monitored network traffic database  and retrievable by any of the components of the network real-time monitoring and control system .","The control management layer  may receive the request for a network traffic shaping control from the monitored network traffic database , the real-time status analyzer , or any other component of the network real-time monitoring and control system . In one implementation, the control management layer  is implemented as part of the JBoss application server, which is available from JBoss, a division of Red Hat. The control management layer  may define a main control node thread and a control management thread. The main control node thread may be configured to generate the network traffic shaping control. The main control node thread may then communicate the generated network traffic shaping control to the control management thread.","The control management thread manages network traffic shaping controls. Managing a network traffic shaping control may include sending a network event identifier to the event management layer  that notifies the event management layer  of the generated control, and managing the life cycle of the network traffic control as the network traffic control transitions between one or more states based on generated network event identifiers. Managing the network traffic shaping control may also include terminating the network traffic shaping control based on a predefined condition, such as when a network node becomes stable or when a received termination request to terminate the network traffic shaping control is received.","The control management layer  may include one or more components to facilitate the generation and management of network traffic shaping controls. In one implementation, the control management layer  includes a root cause identifier , a control selector , and a control manager . Alternative components are also possible.","The control manager  initially receives the request for the network traffic shaping control. Where the control manager  receives multiple requests for network traffic shaping controls, the control manager  communicates with the root cause identifier  to prioritize which network traffic flow is considered first.","In one implementation, the root cause identifier  assigns priority levels to one or more network traffic flows in deciding which network traffic flows should receive a network traffic shaping control. The root cause identifier  may communicate with a scoring database  to apply a network traffic scoring function to one or more of the input network traffic flows  to obtain a priority level for each corresponding input network traffic flow . In general, a network traffic scoring function is a function that identifies the network traffic flow priority for a corresponding network traffic flow. For example, the root cause identifier  may use one or more network traffic scoring functions to determine network traffic flow priorities among one or more input network traffic flows  or output network traffic flows .","As mentioned above, a network traffic flow priority identifies a network traffic flow priority level for a network traffic flow. The network traffic flow priority level assigned to a corresponding network traffic flow may determine whether a network traffic shaping control is applied to the corresponding network traffic flow. Each of the network traffic flows of the network nodes - may be assigned a network traffic flow priority. For example, when there are no indications on a network traffic flow to shape, the root cause identifier  may apply the network traffic scoring function to identify a candidate network traffic flow that has less impact on the overall service for one or more network nodes -. Assigning a network traffic flow priority may be performed based on the service impact of the network traffic flow and the transactional computing weight.","The term \u201ctransaction computing weight\u201d refers to the amount of computing resources required to process a transaction. Computing resources may include processor cycles, an amount of memory, available input or output devices, or any other type of computing resources. In one example, the network real-time monitoring and control system  may implement a first method and a second method. Furthermore, in this example, the first method may require at least three queries of one or more of the databases of the network real-time monitoring and control system , whereas the second method may require only one query. In this example, the transaction computing weight for the first method would be greater than the transaction computing weight of the second method, and the increased transaction computing weight may be taken into account when a network traffic shaping control is suggested.","In addition, the root cause identifier  may use a network traffic scoring function by to determine network traffic flow priorities. In one implementation, the network traffic scoring function may use the network node status condition priorities . The network traffic scoring function may be dependent on the transaction computing weight of one or more network traffic flows.","The root cause identifier may retain the network traffic flow priority level for a network traffic flow. In one implementation, the root cause identifier  stores the network traffic flow priority in the scoring database . However, the root cause identifier  may store the network traffic flow priority in another database, such as the monitored network traffic database .","The control selector  selects and\/or generates the network traffic shaping control requested by the real-time status analyzer . The control selector  may be implemented as a business rules engine or other software system that executes one or more rules in a runtime production environment. One example of a business rules engine is JBoss Rules, which is available from JBoss, which is a division of Red Hat.","As previously discussed, a network traffic shaping control includes instructions and parameters to shape a network traffic flow. However, a network traffic shaping control may control additional actions other than network traffic shaping actions.","A network traffic shaping control may include one or more network traffic shaping control parameters that define the network traffic shaping control. The network traffic shaping control parameters define the actions to be taken when the network traffic shaping control is implemented. Examples of network traffic shaping control parameters that define a network traffic shaping control include an Internet traffic protocol, a message type, a source address, a destination address, and a network traffic shaping control intensity that identifies the amount of network traffic to be received by a network node. The network traffic shaping control intensity may identify an absolute value of the maximum allowed traffic, an absolute value of the minimum allowed traffic, or other value. Alternative parameters may also define a network traffic shaping control.","To populate the parameters of the network traffic shaping control, the control selector  may receive data from one or more databases of the network real-time monitoring and control system . For example, the control selector  may receive network indicator measurements and\/or network performance measurements from the monitored network traffic database  to obtain current measurements relating to the operational conditions of one or more network nodes -, the operational conditions of one or more network traffic flows, or a combination of measurements: The monitoring layer  may include a network communication interface based on an HTTP\/XML protocol for receiving data from the monitored network traffic database .","In one implementation, the control selector  defines the network traffic shaping control intensity. An exemplary function that defines a network traffic shaping control intensity is listed below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"SCI","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":["Actual","Measurement"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},{"mi":["Rearm","Measurement"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}],"mo":"-"},{"mi":["Actual","Measurement"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}]},"mo":"\u00d7","mn":"100"}},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},"SCI=the network traffic shaping control intensity;","Actual Measurement=the value of a network indicator measurement, network performance measurement, or other network measurement; and,","Rearm Measurement=value of a critical or warning threshold associated with the actual measurement.","The network traffic shaping control intensity function shown above defines network traffic shaping intensity as a percentage of network traffic flow. For example, referring to , where the R network status condition is satisfied, the network traffic shaping control may define that the network traffic flow associated with the R status identifier is reduced by 33%, or that the network traffic flow associated with the R status identifier network traffic shaping control intensity is reduced to 33% of the normal network traffic flow. As another example, where the R network status condition is satisfied, the network traffic shaping control may define that the network traffic flow associated with the R status identifier is reduced by 50%, or that the network traffic flow associated with the R status identifier is reduced to 50% of the normal network traffic flow.","The variable values in the function defining a network traffic shaping control intensity, such as the \u201cActual Measurement\u201d variable value and \u201cRearm Measurement\u201d variable value, may be based on the network status identifier and\/or the request for a network traffic shaping control from the real-time status analyzer . For example, the \u201cRearm Measurement\u201d variable value may be based on a critical threshold or warning threshold associated with the network measurement used to calculate the network traffic shaping control intensity. Alternatively, one or more of the databases - may define the variables and\/or variable values to use in defining the network traffic shaping control intensity.","The control selector  may then populate a primary network traffic shaping control record with the network traffic shaping control parameter values of the network traffic shaping control intensity. Table 9 below shows one example of network traffic shaping parameters that may define a primary network traffic shaping record.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 9"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Network Traffic",{}]},{"entry":["Shaping Parameter","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID_CONTROL","A parameter that identifies an"]},{"entry":[{},"identification number of the network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control."]},{"entry":["ID_ANAG_CONTROLLO","A parameter that identifiers the type of"]},{"entry":[{},"the network traffic shaping control."]},{"entry":[{},"ID_ANAG_CONTROLLO may be used"]},{"entry":[{},"as a foreign key."]},{"entry":["TIMESTAMP_ARRIVAL","A parameter that identifies the arrival"]},{"entry":[{},"time of the network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},"control."]},{"entry":["TIMESTAMP_BEGIN","A parameter that identifies the time when"]},{"entry":[{},"the network traffic shaping control begins"]},{"entry":[{},"execution."]},{"entry":["TIMESTAMP_END","A parameter that identifies the time when"]},{"entry":[{},"the network traffic shaping control ends"]},{"entry":[{},"execution."]},{"entry":["STATE","A parameter that identifies the state of"]},{"entry":[{},"the network traffic shaping control."]},{"entry":["ID_NETWORK_NODE","A parameter that identifies the network"]},{"entry":[{},"node for the network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},"control."]},{"entry":["EVENTID","A parameter that identifies an event"]},{"entry":[{},"identification number for the network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic shaping control."]},{"entry":["XML_DATA","A parameter that contains network traffic"]},{"entry":[{},"shaping control data. The network traffic"]},{"entry":[{},"shaping control data may be stored in an"]},{"entry":[{},"XML format."]},{"entry":["RIMODULATION","A parameter that identifies whether the"]},{"entry":[{},"network traffic shaping control is in"]},{"entry":[{},"modulation mode. In general, modulation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode indicates that once the control is"]},{"entry":[{},"started the intensity could be"]},{"entry":[{},"automatically adjusted depending on the"]},{"entry":[{},"new values of the measures of the"]},{"entry":[{},"indicators."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The control selector  may also populate a network traffic shaping control intensity record with network traffic shaping control parameter values. Table 10 below shows one example of the parameters for a network traffic shaping control intensity record.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 10"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Network Traffic",{}]},{"entry":["Shaping Parameter","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID_DETTAGLIO_CONTROLLO","A parameter that identifies the"]},{"entry":[{},"secondary network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},"control record."]},{"entry":["ID_CONTROL","A parameter that identifies the"]},{"entry":[{},"primary network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},"control record."]},{"entry":["INTENSITY","A parameter that identifies the"]},{"entry":[{},"intensity of the network traffic"]},{"entry":[{},"shaping control."]},{"entry":["ID_FLUSSO","A parameter that identifies the"]},{"entry":[{},"network traffic flow to which the"]},{"entry":[{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},"should be applied."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The primary network traffic shaping control record and the network traffic shaping control intensity record may be stored in one or more databases of the network real-time monitoring and control system . For example, the primary network traffic shaping control record and the network traffic shaping control intensity record may be stored in the service model database , the monitored network traffic database , or any of the other databases -.","The control selector  may communicate the network traffic shaping control to the control manager  to notify the network real-time monitoring and control system  that a network traffic shaping control has been generated. In one implementation, the network traffic shaping control is sent as part of a network event identifier to the event manager . An example of an network event identifier that incorporates a network traffic shaping control is shown below as implemented in XML:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<log xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/xmlns.opennms.org\/xsd\/event\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<events><event uuid=\u201c110\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<uei xmlns=\u201c\u201d>controller\/sv_suggestControl<\/uei>"]},{"entry":[{},"<source xmlns=\u201c\u201d>ruleEngine<\/source>"]},{"entry":[{},"<time xmlns=\u201c\u201d>Wednesday, October 31, 2007 5:00:54 PM"]},{"entry":[{},"CET<\/time>"]},{"entry":[{},"<service xmlns=\u201c\u201d>ruleEngine<\/service>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parms>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>idNetworkNode<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>20<value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>RuleName<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>R1<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>RuleDescription<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>Exceeding of a critical"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"threshold for one or more input indicators for SIP INVITE traffic"]},{"entry":[{},"flows <\/value>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>xmlState<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d><\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>controlType<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>P<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>idAnagControllo<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>2<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>idIndicators<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>2<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>aliasIndicators<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>inThrRegPisa<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>idAnagFlusso<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>2<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>intensity<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>33<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parmName xmlns=\u201c\u201d>idFlows<\/parmName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<value type=\u201cstring\u201d encoding=\u201ctext\u201d>2<\/value>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parm>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/parms>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/event><\/events>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/log>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"In addition, the control manager  may maintain a log of the network traffic shaping controls that have been generated. In one implementation, a log of the network traffic shaping controls is maintained in the network traffic shaping control log database . In addition to the control manager , one or more components of the network real-time monitoring and control system  may have access to the network traffic shaping control log database .","After generating the network traffic shaping control, the control manager  may or may not automatically output the network traffic shaping control to the traffic shaping control layer . In one implementation, the output of the network traffic shaping control is controlled by a user of the network real-time monitoring and control system . In this implementation, a determined network traffic shaping control is a suggested network traffic shaping control because the user of the network real-time monitoring and control system  may have discretion as to whether the suggested network traffic shaping control is output to the traffic shaping control layer . For example, the control manager  may communicate a control acceptance request that requests acceptance of the suggested network traffic shaping control to the reporting layer , which, in turn, may be output to the user of the network real-time monitoring and control system . The control manager  may then hold the output of the suggested network traffic shaping control unit until the control manager  receives an acceptance acknowledgment of the suggested network traffic shaping control. Alternatively, the control manager  may terminate the suggested network traffic shaping control according to a predefined termination condition. For example, the control manager  may terminate the suggested network traffic shaping control when the control manager receives a decline acknowledgement. By giving the user discretion as to which network traffic shaping controls are output to the traffic shaping layer , the user may selectively apply the network traffic shaping controls that the user believes to be most desirable or beneficial for the network nodes -.","In an alternative implementation, the acceptance and output of the network traffic shaping control is automatic. In this automatic implementation, when the network traffic shaping control is generated, the control manager  automatically outputs the network traffic shaping control to the traffic shaping control layer .","In addition, the life cycle of a network traffic shaping control may be controlled by the satisfaction of one or more conditions. For example, a network traffic shaping control may end when a terminating condition is satisfied. A terminating condition may be satisfied when a terminating request to terminate the network traffic shaping control is received from a user, or may be based on a network event identifier received by the control manager . Other conditions may include a finishing condition, a stopping condition, a failing condition, and an aborting condition. The conditions may be satisfied based on the occurrence of a network event identifier or the receipt of a user request.","As discussed below with reference to , a network traffic shaping control may change to a state that ends the network traffic shaping control, and, by entering the state that ends the network traffic shaping, a condition controlling the life cycle of the network traffic shaping control may be satisfied.","In addition to the event management layer , the real-time analyzer , and control manager layer , the event control layer  may include a service model database  that stores a service model. In general, the service model provides a platform representation of a VoIP provider through the definition of its elements and their interconnections. In one implementation, the event management layer  communicates with the service model database  using Structured Query Language (\u201cSQL\u201d) queries. The information retrieved from the service model database  facilitates the correlation of an event with one or more of the network nodes -. The information retrieved from the service model database  may include relations between a network performance measurement, or other measurements and the server instance, and the relations between network nodes and server instances. In one implementation, the information retrieved from the service model database  occurs according to a predetermined service model condition, such as when the service model is first introduced to the network real-time monitoring and control system , when the service model database  has been modified, or other predetermined service model condition.","The real-time status analyzer  and the control management layer  may communicate with the service model database . For example, the real-time status manager  of the real-time time status analyzer  may retrieve information the service model database  when a predetermined service model condition occurs or is satisfied. As another example, the root cause identifier  of the control management layer  may communicate with the service model database  to identify a root cause of the event and to identify one or more input traffic flows  or output traffic flows  to shape.","Other components of the network real-time monitoring and control system  may also communicate with the service model database . For example, the administrative layer  may communicate with the service model database . The administrative layer  may communicate with the service model database  for initial configuration of the service model or for later modifications of the service model database . Other interactions between the administrative layer  and the service model database  are also possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0153"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","318","502","504","502","504"]},"In the implementation shown in , the VoIP platform includes a first service center node  and a second service center node . The service center nodes - represent primary points of connection for network nodes. The service center nodes - may provide telecommunication services, such as VoIP service to one or more network nodes.","The network nodes of the service centers - are identified by node type. Examples of node types include an SIP server, a Home Subscriber Server (\u201cHSS\u201d), a softswitch, a media gateway, a session border controller, or other node types. However, the network nodes of the service center nodes - may be identified by other criteria, such as geographic location, telecommunication service provided, or other criteria. The first service center node  is identified as having two network node types, a first network node type  and a second node type . While the first network node type  does not have any children nodes, the second node type  is identified as having at least two network nodes","The network node types - may or may not have network nodes as children nodes. Although the first network node type  does not have children nodes, the second network node type  is identified as having two children network nodes -. The network nodes - may have similar children nodes. Children nodes of the network nodes - include server instances, network traffic flows, executive services and network node operational indicators. However, the children nodes of the network nodes - may include other types of children nodes, such as children nodes for network traffic indicator measurements, network traffic performance measurements, or other children nodes.","The second network node  is identified as having two network traffic flows -. The network traffic flows - may be input network traffic flows, output network traffic flows, or a combination of network traffic flows. The second network node  is also identified as having a first server instance node  and a second server instance node . In general, a server instance node identifies a computer software application or other program running on a physical computer. For example, an SIP server generally includes many different types of server instances, such as a load balancer, one or more servers installed in different server instances. A server instance node may identify the load balancer of the SIP server or one of the other server instances installed on the SIP server. A server instance node may also identify one or more server instances.","Like network nodes -, a server instance node may have children nodes. Children nodes of service instance nodes - may include executive service nodes, indicator nodes, or other children nodes. In general, an executive service node identifies an executive service that may be integral to the service instance. Examples of executive services include operating systems, application server software, database software, or other executive service. As shown in , the first server instance node  has a first executive service node  and a second executive service node . Although the second server instance node  is not shown with executive service nodes, executive service nodes are possible for the second server instance node . Other configurations are also possible.","The second server instance node  includes a first set of indicators  and a second set of indicators . The indicators - identify network indicators for the second server instance node . The indicators - may identify network node operational measurements, network traffic indicator measurements, network traffic performance measurements, or other indicators.","Similar to the first server center node , the second service center node  may have children network node type nodes, children network node nodes, network traffic flow nodes, server instance nodes, indicator nodes, and other nodes. It is further possible that the children nodes of the second service node  are different than the first service center node . Other configurations of the service model , including additional or different service center nodes, are also possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0161"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["108","102","108","106","108","108"]},"In one implementation, the traffic shaping controller layer  includes a traffic controller  and a network node controller . The traffic controller  and the network node controller  are configured to execute a network traffic shaping control to actively shape network traffic flows for one or more network nodes -. For example, the traffic controller  and the network node controller  may be configured to execute a network traffic shaping control to actively shape input network traffic flows . However, the traffic controller  and the network node controller  may be configured to execute network traffic shaping controls to shape other network traffic flows, such as the output network traffic flow . The traffic controller  and node controller  may also provide responses to originating network nodes from where the network traffic flows originated. For example, the traffic controller  and node controller  may provide intelligent responses to the originating network nodes when a network traffic flow is shaped.","The traffic controller  and\/or node controller  may be implemented in computer software or computer hardware. In one implementation, the traffic controller  and node controller  are implemented on a single network traffic shaping appliance that receives the network traffic shaping control from the control management layer . Alternatively, the traffic controller  and the node controller  may be implemented on two or more network traffic shaping appliances. An example of a network traffic shaping appliance that receives network traffic controls is the BIG-IP Application Delivery Controller, which is available from F5 Networks, Inc. located in Seattle, Wash., United States. In this implementation, the control management layer  communicates with the BIG-IP Application Delivery Controller using software designed to support interoperable machine-to-machine interaction over a network, such as XML and Simple Object Access Protocol (\u201cSOAP\u201d). The BIG-IP Application Delivery Controller may also be programmed using an internal scripting language, such as iRule, and a Service Oriented Architecture (\u201cSOA\u201d) enabled Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d), such as iControl. Both iRule and iControl are also available from F5 Networks, Inc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0165","num":"0164"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","112","110","102","112","102"]},"The reporting layer  and administrative layer  may be implemented in computer hardware or computer software. In one implementation, the reporting layer  and  are implemented as servlet containers, using such technologies as Apache Tomcat, which is available from the Apache Software Foundation, located in Forest Hill, Md., United States. The reporting layer  and administrative  may implement one or more web pages that are used to configure another technology used by the network real-time monitoring and control system , such as the OpenNMS system that may implement the monitoring layer  and the event control layer .","The reporting layer  may include one or more components for providing reporting information to another component, layer, system, user, or other entity. In one implementation, the reporting layer  includes a monitoring component  and a reporting component . The monitoring component  may monitor the data of the network real-time monitoring and control system , such as network traffic indicator measurements, network traffic performance measurements, network node operational indicator measurements, network traffic shaping controls, or other data. The reporting component  may generate reports for the data monitored by the monitoring component . The reporting layer  may communicate the monitored and reported data to the administrative layer  for output to a user via a graphical user interface or output to another system. Other types of output are also possible.","The administrative layer  may include one or more components for managing the configuration of the network real-time monitoring and control system . In one implementation, the administrative layer  includes a control configuration component , a threshold configuration component , a model configuration component , and an NPI configuration component . The control configuration component  may receive inputs that configure one or more network traffic shaping controls or configures the parameter values for generating a network traffic shaping control. For example, the control configuration component  may be used by a user to control the lifecycle management of a network traffic shaping control. A user may also use the control configuration component  to accept or reject a suggested network traffic shaping control suggested by the control manager .","The threshold configuration component  may receive inputs that configure one or more thresholds, such as a warning threshold and a critical threshold, for one or more indicators monitored by the network real-time monitoring and control system . For example, the threshold configuration  may receive inputs that configure network indicator warning thresholds, network performance warning thresholds, network indicator critical thresholds, network performance warning thresholds, or any other threshold implemented by the network real-time monitoring and control system .","The model configuration component  may receive inputs that configure the service model  stored in the service model database . The NPI configuration component  may receive inputs that configure the determination of network performance measurements, network indicator measurements, or any other measurement determined by the network real-time monitoring and control system .","Although the components - have been discussed with reference to receiving input data, the components - may also be configured for outputting data, such as the warning thresholds, the critical thresholds, the service model, the network traffic shaping controls, or other data. As mentioned previously, outputting data may include the display of data, the transmission of data, such as to another system, the storage of data, or any other type of output now known or later developed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0171"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["802","802","802"]},"The network traffic shaping control state model  provides a flexible model for both automatically and manually managing network traffic shaping controls. As a network traffic shaping control may be automatically suggested, manually suggested, automatically accepted, or manually accepted, the network traffic shaping control model  implements several states that account for the varying conditions under which a network traffic shaping control may be suggested or accepted. Moreover, the network traffic shaping control model  includes states that account for a potential failure in executing a control command that is issued to control one or more network traffic shaping controls.","In one implementation, the network traffic shaping control state model  includes five sets of states. The five sets of states include a set of pending states , a set of running states , a set of finished states , a set of stopped states , and a set of terminated states . However, alternative state sets are also possible.","The network traffic shaping control state model  facilitates distinguishing the different causes for terminating or ending a network traffic shaping control through the various state sets -. For example, the network traffic shaping control state model  includes state sets - that identify the different causes for the ending of a network traffic shaping control. Exemplary causes for ending a network traffic shaping control include manual termination by a user or operator, which may be identified by the terminated state sets , automatic termination by the network real-time monitoring and control system , which may be identified by the finished state set , or the identification that one or more network nodes - have stopped responding, which may be identified by the stooped state set . Other causes for ending a network traffic shaping control, such as a communication failure in one or more layers of the real-time monitoring and control system  or a failure in the node controller  or the traffic controller , are also possible.","In one implementation, the network traffic shaping control state model  may be event driven so that implementing logic is based on events and a current state, such as using a finite state machine (\u201cFSM\u201d) paradigm. Moreover, the network traffic shaping control state mode  is flexible and extensible to include other states and\/or events, and may be used in other contexts outside of VoIP. Alternatively, the network traffic shaping control state model  may be implemented using a business process management (\u201cBPM\u201d)","Each of the state sets - generally include states that identify the general status of a network traffic shaping control. For example, the set of pending states  generally includes states in which a network traffic shaping control is pending execution by the traffic controller  or the node controller . Similarly, the set of running states  generally include states in which the network traffic shaping control is being executed or transitioning to execution by the traffic controller  or the node controller . In addition, the set of finished states  generally includes states in which the network traffic shaping control has finished or transitioning to a finishing state by the traffic controller  or the node controller  according to a finishing condition. Furthermore, the set of stopped states  generally includes states in which the network traffic shaping control has stopped or is transitioning to a stopped state by the traffic controller  or the node controller . Finally, the set of terminated states  generally includes states in which the network traffic shaping has terminated or will be terminated by the traffic controller  or the node controller . However, each of the state sets - may also include alternative or different types of states.","In the example below, the network traffic shaping control has sixteen possible states. However, other implementations may employ more or fewer states. The different states may have a state type that defines whether the network traffic shaping control is in an initial state, an intermediary state, or an ending state. In general, an initial state is a state the network traffic shaping control is first assigned when instantiated. An intermediary state is a state reachable from the initial state but it is not a final state of the network traffic shaping control. An intermediary state may transition to another intermediary state or an ending state. An ending state is reachable from the pending state and the intermediary state, but, in general, is a state that does not transition to another state.","Table 11 below provides an exemplary list of states. Table 11 lists the state, the state set in which the state has been grouped, the state type, and a brief description of the state. However, alternative states than those shown in Table 11 are also possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0179"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 11"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["State","State Set","State Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Aborted","Pending States","Final State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been aborted based on"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the satisfaction of an aborting"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":["Pending","Pending States","Initial State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been suggested and is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pending execution. When"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"instantiated, a network traffic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"shaping control may first be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"assigned a pending state."]},{"entry":["Deleted","Pending States","Final State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been automatically"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"deleted before being"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"accepted."]},{"entry":["Discarded","Pending States","Final State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been discarded since a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"newer network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control has been suggested."]},{"entry":["Wait Running","Running States","Intermediary","A state that indicates that a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","run control command has"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"been issued to execute the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control, but the run control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"command has not yet been"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"acknowledged."]},{"entry":["Running","Running States","Final State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is being executed by a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"appliance."]},{"entry":["Failed Running","Running States","Intermediary","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","network traffic control has"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"failed due to the occurrence"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of a failing condition."]},{"entry":["Wait Finished","Finished States","Intermediary","A state that indicates that a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","finish control command has"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"been issued to finish the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control, but the finish control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"command has not yet been"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"acknowledged."]},{"entry":["Finished","Finished States","Final State","A state that indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has finished according the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"satisfaction of a finishing"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":["Failed Finished","Finished States","Intermediary","A state that identifies that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been unable to reach the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"finished state due to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"occurrence of a failing"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":["Wait Stopped","Stopped States","Intermediary","A state that indicates that a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","stop control command has"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"been issued to stop the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control, but the stop control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"command has not yet been"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"acknowledged."]},{"entry":["Stopped","Stopped States","Final State","A state that identifies that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has stopped according to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"satisfaction of a stopping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":["Failed Stopped","Stopped States","Intermediary","A state that identifies that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"State","network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been unable to reach the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"stopped state due to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"satisfaction of a failing"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":["Wait Terminated","Terminated","Intermediary","A state that indicates that a"]},{"entry":[{},"States","State","terminate control command"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been issued to terminate"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the network traffic shaping"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control, but the terminate"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"control command has not yet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"been acknowledged."]},{"entry":["Terminated","Terminated","Final State","A state that identifies that the"]},{"entry":[{},"States",{},"network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has terminated according to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the satisfaction of a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"terminating condition."]},{"entry":["Failed Terminated","Terminated","Intermediary","A state that identifies that the"]},{"entry":[{},"States","State","network traffic shaping control"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"has been unable to reach the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"terminated state due to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"satisfaction of a failing"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"condition."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"As shown in Table 11, one or more of the states may be reached according to the satisfaction of a condition. As previously discussed, conditions may include an aborting condition, terminating conditions, stopped conditions, failing conditions, and finished conditions. The conditions may be defined by whether one or more particular network event identifiers have been generated. Accordingly, the conditions may be satisfied according to the generation of the network event identifier. However, the conditions may also be satisfied by another event, such as the receipt of a request by the user to perform an action, or other event.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0181"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["804","806","804","902","904","908","906","902","804"]},"For transitioning between states - within the pending state set , the pending state set  may include one or more intra-pending state transitions, such as an intra-pending state transition between the pending state  and the aborted state . In addition, the network traffic shaping control may transition out of the pending state set  from the pending state  according to a pending state transition established between the pending state  and a wait running state . The network traffic shaping control may transition from the pending state  to the wait running state  when the network traffic shaping control has been accepted, such as being accepted by a user, by another system, or by automatic acceptance. Table 12 below lists state transitions established between originating states and destination states including: the originating state, the state transition type, the condition type that causes the state transition, the network event identifier that satisfies the condition that causes the network traffic shaping control to undergo the state transition, and the destination state.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0183"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 12"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Originating","Transition","Condition",{},"Destination"]},{"entry":["State","Type","Type","Network event identifier","State"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Pending","Intra-","Aborting","EVENT_USR_ANN_CONTR","Aborted"]},{"entry":[{},"pending"]},{"entry":["Pending","Intra-","Deleting","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC","Deleted"]},{"entry":[{},"pending",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA"]},{"entry":["Pending","Intra-","Discarded","EVENT_SUGG_CONTR","Discarded"]},{"entry":[{},"pending"]},{"entry":["Pending","Pending","Accepting","EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR","Wait"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Running"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In one implementation, the running state set  includes a wait running state , a failed running state , and a running state . The network traffic shaping control enters the running state set  when the network traffic shaping control is assigned the wait running state . After the network traffic shaping control is assigned the wait running state , the network traffic shaping control may then transition to one or more of the states within the pending state set  according to the satisfaction of a running condition, such as when the network traffic shaping control has been accepted but not yet executed by the traffic controller  or the node controller . Other types of running conditions are also possible.","For transitioning between states - within the running state set , the running state set  may include one or more intra-running state transitions, such as an intra-running state transition between the wait running state  and the failed running state . In addition, the network traffic shaping control may transition out of the running state set  from the wait running state  or the running state  according to a running state transition. A first running state transition may be established between the wait running state  and the discarded state , and a second running state transition may be established between the running state  and to a state selected from the group comprising a finished state, a terminated state, and a stopped state. The network traffic shaping control may transition from the running state  to another state set when the network traffic shaping control has been executed. Table 13 below lists state transitions established in the running state set  and between originating states and destination states. Table 13 also lists the state transition type, the condition type that causes the transition, and the network event identifier that satisfies the condition that causes the network traffic shaping control to undergo the transition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0186"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 13"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Originating","Transition","Condition","Network event",{}]},{"entry":["State","Type","Type","identifier","Destination State"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Wait Running","Running","Discarding","EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR","Discarded"]},{"entry":["Wait Running","Intra-","Failing","EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_KO","Failed Running"]},{"entry":[{},"running",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_KO"]},{"entry":["Wait Running","Intra-","Running","EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_OK","Running"]},{"entry":[{},"running",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_OK"]},{"entry":["Failed","Intra-","Running","EVENT_NODE_UP","Wait Running"]},{"entry":["Running","pending"]},{"entry":["Failed","Running","Aborting","EVENT_USR_ANN_CONTR","Aborted"]},{"entry":"Running"},{"entry":["Failed","Running","Discarding","EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR","Discarded"]},{"entry":"Running"},{"entry":["Failed","Running","Deleting","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC","Deleted"]},{"entry":["Running",{},{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OUT_SONDA"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0188","num":"0187"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["808","802","808","1002","1004","1006","808","1002","1002","808","102"]},"For transitioning between states - within the finished state set , the finished state set  may establish one or more intra-finished state transitions, such as an intra-finished state transition between the wait finished state  and the failed finished state . Table 14 below lists state transitions established between originating states and destination states of the finished state set  including: the originating state, the state transition type, the condition type that causes the transition, the network event identifier that satisfies the condition that causes the network traffic shaping control to undergo the transition, and the destination state. Table 14 also lists the transition established between the running state  and the wait finished state .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0189"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 14"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Originating","Transition","Condition",{},"Destination"]},{"entry":["State","Type","Type","Network event identifier","State"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Running","Running","Waiting","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC","Wait Finished"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR"]},{"entry":["Wait Finished","Intra-","Failing","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_KO","Failed"]},{"entry":[{},"finished",{},"or","Finished"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_KO"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_KO"]},{"entry":["Wait Finished","Intra-","Finishing","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OK","Finished"]},{"entry":[{},"finished",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_USR_ACC_CONTR_OK"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_OK"]},{"entry":["Failed","Intra-","Waiting","EVENT_NODE_UP","Wait Finished"]},{"entry":["Finished","finished"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0190"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["810","802","810","1102","1104","1106","810","1102","1102","810","102","114","116"]},"For transitioning between states - within the stopped state set , the stopped state set  may include one or more intra-stopped state transitions, such as an intra-stopped state transition between the wait stopped state  and the failed stopped state . Table 15 below lists state transitions established between originating states and destination states of the stopped state set  including: the originating state, the state transition type, the condition type that causes the transition, the network event identifier that satisfies the condition that causes the network traffic shaping control to undergo the transition, and the destination state. Table 15 also lists the transition established between the running state  and the wait stopped state .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0192"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 15"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Originating","Transition","Condition","Network event","Destination"]},{"entry":["State","Type","Type","identifier","State"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Running","Running","Waiting","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OUT_SONDA","Wait Stopped"]},{"entry":["Wait Stopped","Intra-","Failing","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA_KO","Failed"]},{"entry":[{},"stopped",{},"or","Stopped"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_KO"]},{"entry":["Wait Stopped","Intra-","Stopping","EVENT_FINE_CONTR_OUT_SONDA_OK","Stopped"]},{"entry":[{},"stopped",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_OK"]},{"entry":["Failed","Intra-","Waiting","EVENT_NODE_UP","Wait Stopped"]},{"entry":["Stopped","stopped"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0194","num":"0193"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["812","802","812","1202","1204","1206","812","1202","1202","812","102"]},"For transitioning between states - within the terminated state set , the terminated state set  may include one or more intra-terminated state transitions, such as an intra-terminated state transition between the wait terminated state  and the failed terminated state . Table 16 below lists state transitions established between originating states and destination states of the terminated state set  including: the originating state, the state transition type, the condition type that causes the transition, the network event identifier that satisfies the condition that causes the network traffic shaping control to undergo the transition, and the destination state. Table 16 also lists the transition established between the running state  and the wait terminated state .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0195"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 16"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Originating","Transition","Condition",{},"Destination"]},{"entry":["State","Type","Type","Network event identifier","State"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Running","Running","Waiting","EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR","Wait"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Terminated"]},{"entry":["Wait","Intra-","Failing","EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR_KO","Failed"]},{"entry":["Terminated","terminated",{},"or","Terminated"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_KO"]},{"entry":["Wait","Intra-","Terminating","EVENT_USR_TERM_CONTR_OK","Terminated"]},{"entry":["Terminated","terminated",{},"or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"EVENT_NODE_UP_OK"]},{"entry":["Failed","Intra-","Waiting","EVENT_NODE_UP","Wait"]},{"entry":["Terminated","terminated",{},{},"Terminated"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The implementation of a network traffic shaping control may be based on the issuance of one or more control commands. In general, a control command is a command that controls a network traffic shaping control. In the implementation of the network traffic shaping control state model shown in , control commands include an abort control command, a discard control command, a delete control command, a run control command, a finish control command, a stop control command, and a terminate control command. Each of the control commands may indicate a desired state in which to place a network traffic shaping control. For example, an abort control command may be a command that places the network traffic shaping control in the aborted state . Similarly, the run control command may be a command that places the network traffic shaping control in the running state .","A control command may be issued by one or more layers, such as the control management layer , with the intended recipient being another layer or another component, such as the traffic controller  or the node controller . However, there may be instances where a control command is issued by a layer and the control command does not reach, or is unable to reach, its intended recipient. Exemplary instances where a control command does not reach its intended recipient include where there is a communication failure in one or more layers of the real-time monitoring and control system , where the traffic controller  or node controller  has stopped responding or has suffered a terminal failure, or where one or more network nodes - have suffered an outage.","Where an outage has occurred, the control command may be issued by the network real-time monitoring and control system  to control a network traffic shaping control, but the control command may not be successfully executed or received by intended recipient of the control command. For example, a run control command may be issued to the traffic controller , but the traffic controller  may have suffered an outage. In this example, the traffic controller  may be unable to run execute the run control command and therefore transmit an acknowledgement that the traffic controller  has executed the run control command. Outages may also occur within the network real-time monitoring and control system , such as a communication failure between one or more layers -. Where there is an outage between one or more layers -, a control command may be issued, but the control command may not reach its intended destination, such as to another layer, to the traffic controller , to the node controller , or other component.","The potential for a loss in a control command is addressed by the implementation of the various wait states , , ,  shown in . The wait states , , ,  place a network traffic shaping control in a waiting state until a decision is reached as to whether a control command has been successfully received or executed. In one implementation, this decision is based on whether an acknowledgement of the control command is received during a timeout period of a set period of time, such as a 1 second, 5 seconds, or any other period of time. During the timeout period, the intended recipient of the control command may transmit an acknowledgement of the control command, which in turn may trigger the generation of a network event identifier, such as the EVENT_FINE_CONTR_RTC_OK network event identifier, the EVENT_NODE_UP_OK network event identifier, or other network event identifier, that places the network traffic shaping control into an ending state, such as the discarded state , the finished state , or any other ending state.","However, during the same timeout period, the intended recipient of the control command may not transmit an acknowledgement of the control command. Where an acknowledgement of the control command is not received during the timeout period, a network event identifier may be generated that places the network traffic shaping control into one of the failed states, such as the failed running state , failed finished state , the failed stopped state , or any other failed state. When the network traffic shaping control is placed into a failed state, the real-time monitoring and control system  may iteratively try to re-issue the control command that caused the network traffic shaping control to be placed into the failed state. Alternatively, the real-time monitoring and control system  may engage in a diagnostic analysis of the intended recipient of the control command that caused the network traffic shaping control to be placed into the failed state. The diagnostic analysis of the intended recipient may result in the restart of the intended recipient, such as where the traffic controller  or node controller  has failed, or other corrective measures to be applied, such as by transmitting an alarm or notice to the reporting layer . Corrective measures may also include a diagnostic analysis of one or more layers of the real-time monitoring and control system .","After the application of the corrective measures, the intended recipient of the control command may be identified as operating within a predetermined set of operational parameters. Where the intended recipient begins operating within operational parameters after the network traffic shaping control is placed in a failed state, a network event identifier may be generated that places the network traffic shaping control back into a waiting state. For example, when the network traffic shaping control is in the failed finished state , the EVENT_NODE_UP network event identifier may be generated that places the network traffic shaping control in the wait finished state . Upon return to the waiting state, the control command that caused the initial failure may be re-transmitted to the intended recipient and the timeout period may begin tolling again until an acknowledgement is received from the intended recipient. When the acknowledgement is received from the intended recipient, a network event identifier may be generated that places the network traffic shaping control into the ending state, such as the finished state .","Hence, the wait states , , ,  address a problem where an outage may have occurred in the real-time monitoring and control system  and the outage has not yet been acknowledged by the real-time monitoring and control system . Rather than assuming that a control command has been successfully executed, which would cause the network traffic shaping control to enter an ending state, the wait states , , ,  place the network traffic shaping control into a waiting state until the real-time monitoring and control system  can verify whether the control command was executed or received successfully. Having the network traffic shaping control shaping control enter an ending state, such as the deleted state , the finished state , or other ending state without verifying whether the control command was successfully received or executed may result in undesirable effects of the traffic flow to be shaped or being shaped by the network traffic shaping control. Accordingly, the wait states , , , and  present one technical measure that addresses the problem of controlling a network traffic shaping control where an outage has occurred that has not yet been reported.","Exemplary aspects, features, and components of the system were described above. However, the system may be implemented in many different ways. For example, some features are shown stored in computer-readable memories and may be implemented with logic stored as processor-executable instructions or as data structures in a computer-readable medium. Examples of computer-readable mediums include random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), erasable and rewriteable memory, removable discs, and fixed discs. Furthermore, all or part of the system and its logic and data structures may be stored on, distributed across, or read from other machine-readable media. The media may include hard disks, floppy disks, CD-ROMs, tangible signals, such as a signal received from a network, received over multiple packets communicated across the network, or received at an antenna or other receiver.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0205","num":"0204"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 1-3","FIGS. 6-7"],"b":["1302","102","1304","104","122","208","1306","302","208","308","1308","302","1310","302"]},"After the network performance measurements have been obtained (), the event management layer  then retrieves one or more network traffic thresholds from the network performance equation and threshold profile database . The network traffic thresholds may include network traffic indicator thresholds, network traffic performance thresholds and network node operational thresholds. The retrieved one or more network traffic indicator thresholds may include warning thresholds, critical thresholds, or any other threshold. The event management layer  may then compare the network traffic indicator thresholds with the previously retrieved network traffic indicator measurements (). Alternatively, or in addition, the event management layer  may compare the network performance measurements with the network traffic performance thresholds (), or the event management layer  may compare the network node operational indicator measurements with network node operational indicator thresholds. Additional comparisons are also possible.","After the event management layer  has performed the comparison operations (\/), the event management layer  may then generate a network event identifier according to the comparison (\/). The generated network event identifier may indicate that one or more of the measurements have exceeded a threshold, such as a warning threshold or critical threshold. Alternatively, the generated network event identifier may indicate that one or more of the measurements have not exceeded a threshold. A generated network event identifier may also indicate that one or more of the network nodes - are non-responsive or that an unexpected error has occurred in the generation of the network event identifier. Other types of generated network event identifiers are also possible.","The generated network event identifier is then communicated to the real-time status analyzer . The real-time status analyzer  correlates the communicated network event identifier with a network node status identifier (). As previously discussed, the real-time status analyzer  may refer to a network node status rule set to correlate the network event identifier with a network node status identifier.","Based on the network node status identifier obtained from correlating the network event identifier, the real-time status analyzer  may generate a request for a network traffic shaping control (). The control management layer  receives the request for the network traffic shaping control, and determines the parameter values for the network traffic shaping control (). Examples of parameters for a network traffic shaping control are shown in Tables 7-8 above. The control management layer  then communicates the network traffic shaping control to the traffic shaping control layer  for execution by the node controller , the traffic controller , or both ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0210","num":"0209"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["306","1402","1404","306","1406","112","102","112","1408","1410","108"]},"In an alternative implementation, the acceptance of the network traffic shaping control automatic. In this alternative implementation, when the network traffic shaping control is generated, the network traffic shaping control is automatically accepted and communicated to the traffic shaping control layer . A network event identifier may be generated that indicates that the network traffic shaping control has been automatically accepted ().","The system may be implemented with additional, different, or fewer components. As one example, a processor may be implemented as a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a DSP, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), discrete logic, or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. As another example, memories may be DRAM, SRAM, Flash or any other type of memory. The processing capability of the system may be distributed among multiple components, such as among multiple processors and memories, optionally including multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters, databases, and other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into a single memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different ways, and may be implemented with different types of data structures such as linked lists, hash tables, or implicit storage mechanisms. Logic, such as programs or circuitry, may be combined or split among multiple programs, distributed across several memories and processors, and may be implemented in a library, such as a shared library (e.g., a dynamic link library (DLL)). The DLL, for example, may store code that implements functionality for a specific module as noted above. As another example, the DLL may itself provide all or some of the functionality of the system.","In addition, the system may be implemented using one or more available technologies. As mentioned throughout, the system may be implemented using the OpenNMS network management platform, the XML specification, a Java Runtime Environment (\u201cJRE\u201d), the JBoss application server, the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet application, the Apache Tomcat servlet container, and the PostgreSQL object-relational database management system. The system may further be implemented with alternative technologies other than those described herein.","While various embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The system may be better understood with reference to the following drawings and description. The elements in the figures are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the system. In the figures, like-referenced numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the different views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
