---
title: Electronically reconfigurable planar crossbar array optical elements
abstract: Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to dynamically and electronically reconfigurable optical devices that can be operated as a lens or prism for incident beams of electromagnetic radiation. The optical devices include a phase-modulation layer () disposed between first and second nanowire layers (). Overlapping nanowires can be electronically addressed to implement a selected effective refractive index pattern of one or more regions () of the phase-modulation layer, such that each region refracts a portion of an incident beam of electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength of interest in order to focus, diverge, or bend the incident beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08477408&OS=08477408&RS=08477408
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08477408
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090402
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Negative Index Materials","Negative Index Material Crossbars","Resonant Elements","Dynamically Reconfiguring an Optical Device"],"p":["This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011-05-3-0002, awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.","Embodiments of the present invention relate to optical elements, and, in particular, to electronically reconfigurable planar crossbar arrays that can be operated as lenses and prisms.","Lenses and prisms are refracting optical elements configured to adjust the energy distribution of transmitted electromagnetic radiation. Most simple lenses are configured with two surfaces that correspond to surfaces of a sphere, where each surface can be manufactured as a convex surface (i.e., bulging outward from the lens), a concave surface (i.e., depressed into the lens), or a planar surface. For example,  shows side views of a biconvex lens , a biconcave lens , and plano-convex lens . The biconvex lens  comprises two opposing convex surfaces, the biconcave lens  comprises two opposing concave surfaces, and the plano-convex lens  comprises opposing convex and planar surfaces. As shown in , a collimated beam of electromagnetic radiation  travelling parallel to the optical axis  and passing through the biconvex lens  converges or is said to be focused to a spot called the focal point  on the optical axis , at a certain distance behind the lens. This distance is called the focal length, and the lens  is also referred to as a positive or converging lens. On the other hand,  shows a collimated beam of electromagnetic radiation  passing through the biconcave lens . The beam after passing through the lens  diverges or spreads out and appears to be emanating from a point, also called a focal point , on the optical axis  in front of the lens . The distance from the point  to the center of the lens  is also known as the focal length, although it is negative with respect to the focal length of a convex lens.","Because simple lenses can be manufactured with various convex and concave curvatures, lenses are among the most widely and commonly used optical elements. For example, a simple lens can be configured as a corrective lens in eye glasses or a lens of a magnifying glass. On the other hand, a compound lens is an arrangement of simple lenses that share a common optical axis. The simple lenses of a compound lens can be configured and spaced along the optical axis to correct for optical aberrations and to magnify images of small or distant objects in devices such as microscopes, camera lenses, and telescopes in ways that are not possible using only a simple lens.","A prism, on the other hand, is a transparent optical element with flat, polished surfaces that refract transmitted electromagnetic radiation. The exact angles between the surfaces depend on the application and the desired degree to which the transmitted electromagnetic radiation is bent. Prisms can be manufactured with traditional geometrical shapes, such as a triangular prism with a triangular base and top and rectangular sides.","Manufactured optical elements are typically composed of glass or a transparent plastic and may be cut, ground, and polished after manufacturing to change the optical properties, such as changing the optical axis, focal point, focal length, degree of refraction, or whether the lens is convergent or divergent. For example, a lens can be cut, ground, and polished after manufacturing to change the focal length or to reposition the optical axis to no longer pass through the physical center of the lens. However, changing the optical properties of an optical element is typically a labor intensive process that fixes the optical properties of the optical element. After the optical properties of a manufactured lens have been changed via cutting and grinding, it may be too labor intensive or impossible to restore the lens to its original manufactured optical properties. For example, it may be impossible to reconfigure a biconvex lens as a prism or as a biconcave lens via cutting and grinding.","Thus, it is desirable to have optical devices that can be operated as reconfigurable optical elements.","Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to optical devices that can be operated as reconfigurable optical elements, such as lenses and prisms. The term \u201coptical\u201d refers to a device that operates in the visible and the non-visible portions of the spectrum of electromagnetic radiation. The optical devices include a phase-control layer disposed between two overlapping nanowire layers of a crossbar array enabling the effective refractive index of regions of the crossbar array to be electrically controlled. Electromagnetic radiation transmitted through an optical device is refracted by changing the refractive index of the phase-control layer, which causes phase changes in portions of the transmitted electromagnetic radiation.","A crossbar array device configured in accordance with embodiments of the present invention has a planar geometry, operates as a negative index material over certain portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, and can be operated as a lens or as a prism. In other words, an incident beam of electromagnetic radiation can be focused, diverged, or redirected even though the device has a planar geometry. In addition, the electronic re-configurability of the device enables the same device to be switched from operating as a focusing lens to operating as a diverging lens or to operating as a prism. The focal length associated with either focusing or diverging and the degree to which an incident beam can be refracted is also electronically adjustable, programmable, and can be changed without having to reposition the optical device. Optical devices configured and operated in accordance with embodiments of the present invention can replace common simple and compound lenses and can also be operated to define the shape of a laser beam. For example, the Gaussian shape of a laser beam can be sharpened by passing the beam through an appropriately operated optical device.","Negative index materials (\u201cNIMs\u201d), also called metamaterials, are materials with optical properties resulting from the structure of the material rather than from the chemical composition of the material. Natural materials have positive permeability, \u03bc, and may have positive or negative dielectric permittivity \u2208, depending on the type of conductivity of the material and frequency ranges. In contrast, NIMs have simultaneously negative \u2208 and \u03bc for certain portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, which results in optical properties that are different from those of ordinary composite materials. The optical properties of NIMs can be appreciated by comparing and contrasting the optical properties of NIMs with the optical properties of ordinary composite materials, as described in , by A. K. Sarychev and V. M. Shalaev (World Scientific, New York, 2007). For example, consider Maxwell's first-order differential equations for an electromagnetic wave propagating in an ordinary composite material with a time harmonic field as follows:\n\n\u2207\u00d7\n\n\u2207\u00d7\n\nwhere {right arrow over (E)} is the electric field component, {right arrow over (H)} is the magnetic field component, j=\u221a{square root over (\u22121)}, and \u03c9 is the angular frequency. The solutions of these equations are the plane-wave fields:\n\nexp(\u2212)\n\nexp(\u2212)\n\nSubstituting the plane-wave equations into Maxwell's first order differential equations gives the relations:\n\n\n\n\n\nwhere {right arrow over (k)}is a wavevector indicating the direction an electromagnetic wave propagates within a composite material.  shows the spatial relationship and relative orientation of the vectors {right arrow over (E)}, {right arrow over (H)}, and {right arrow over (k)}and reveals that for an ordinary composite material with positive \u2208 and \u03bc, the vectors {right arrow over (E)}, {right arrow over (H)}, and {right arrow over (k)}form an orthogonal, right-handed system of vectors. In addition, the direction of the time-averaged energy flux of the electromagnetic wave is given by the real component of the Poynting vector:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"S","mo":"\u21c0"},"mi":"o"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"Re","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u21c0"},"mo":"\u00d7","msup":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"\u21c0"},"mo":"*"}}}}}}},"br":{},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"sub":["o ","o ","o "]},"On the other hand, consider NIMs, where \u2208<0 and \u03bc<0. Maxwell's first order differential equations give the relations:\n\n\n\n\n\nwhere {right arrow over (k)}is a wavevector indicating the direction the phase the electromagnetic wave propagates in a NIM. As shown in , and in contrast to the composite materials shown in , for NIMs, the vectors {right arrow over (E)}, {right arrow over (H)}, and {right arrow over (k)}form an orthogonal, left-handed system of vectors. In other words, comparing the directions of the wavefronts represented by the wavevectors {right arrow over (k)}and {right arrow over (k)}shown in , respectively, reveals that electromagnetic waves propagate backwards in NIMs for the same orientation of the vectors {right arrow over (E)} and {right arrow over (H)}. Thus, NIMs are also referred to as \u201cleft-handed media\u201d or \u201cbackward media.\u201d However, as shown in , the Poynting vector {right arrow over (S)}in a metamaterial is unaffected by the change of sign of \u2208 and \u03bc, and the vectors {right arrow over (E)}, {right arrow over (H)}, and {right arrow over (S)}still form an orthogonal, right-handed system of vectors in a left-handed medium. Therefore, in NIMs, energy and wavefronts travel in opposite directions.\n","Now consider the refraction of an incident ray at the interface between ordinary and left-handed media. Based on the properties of electromagnetic waves travelling in NIMs described above, it follows that, unlike refraction observed in ordinary media, the angles-of-incidence and refraction have opposite signs. Snell's law in NIMs becomes:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"2"}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mn":"1"}}]},{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mn":"2"},{"mi":"n","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":["\u2261","<"],"mn":"0"}},"mo":","}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["1","2","2"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"n"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["404","402","406","402","408","402","410","402","402","406","408","404","402","406","410","404"],"sub":["1 ","1 ","1","2 ","3 ","2","2 ","2 ","2","2","1","2","2"]},"Tracing the paths of optical rays through conventional concave and convex lens made of left-handed media reveals that concave lenses become convergent and convex lens become divergent, thus reversing the behavior of lenses comprising ordinary media.  shows focusing properties of a slab  composed of a NIM for electromagnetic radiation emanating from a point source. For incident rays paraxial to an optical axis , Snell's law gives:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"n"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"n","mn":"2"}},"msub":{"mi":"n","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"2"}}}]},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"tan","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"tan","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"2"}}}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u2022"},{"mfrac":[{"msup":{"mi":["a","\u2032"]},"mi":"a"},{"msup":{"mi":["b","\u2032"]},"mi":"b"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":["2 ","1","1 ","2","1 ","2 ","2 "],"b":["502","502","502"],"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["a","b"],"mo":["+","+","+"],"msup":[{"mi":["a","\u2032"]},{"mi":["b","\u2032"]}]},{"mi":"d","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mi":"d","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"n"}}}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","604","602","604","602","604","604","602","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["600","702","602","604","702","704","602","604","602","604","706","708","710","712","602","604","702","602","604","714","602","704","702","604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","801","804","600","801","804","806","808","810","812","806","808","810","812","814","702","810","812","602","806","808","604","806","808","816","819","806","810","812","821","824","810","801","804","602","604","801","816","817","806","821","822","810"],"sub":["x ","y "]},"In other embodiments, the intermediate layer  may be composed of discrete portions of a material lying within each resonant element.  shows an isometric view of an enlargement  of four adjacent resonant elements - of a NIM crossbar configured in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The resonant elements - include intermediate plus-shaped layers -, respectively, disposed within the region between the fingers of nanowires  and  overlaying nanowires  and . As shown in , adjacent plus-shaped layers - are separated by gaps, and each plus-shaped layer fills the space between the nanowire of one layer and the fingers of a nanowire in another layer. For example, plus-shaped layer  is configured to fill the space between fingers  and  and nanowire  and fill the space between fingers  and  and nanowire .","Although individual nanowires shown in  have rectangular cross sections, nanowires can also have square, circular, elliptical, or more complex cross sections dictated by design of supporting a magneto-plasmon resonance and related NIM behavior over a particular wavelength or frequency range of interest of the electromagnetic spectrum. The nanowires may be configured to have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities ranging from approximately \u2155 to approximately 1\/20 of the wavelength of incident electromagnetic radiation or ranging from approximately 20 nm to approximately 200 nm. Although the fingers shown in  have clearly defined edges, in other embodiments, the fingers may have rounded edges. The term \u201cresonant element\u201d may refer to crossbars having one or more layers of sub-microscale wires, microscale wires, or wires with larger cross-sectional dimensions, in addition to nanowires. The nanowires can be comprised of silver (\u201cAg\u201d), gold (\u201cAu\u201d), copper (\u201cCu\u201d), aluminum (\u201cAl\u201d), platinum (\u201cPt\u201d), or another suitable electronically conducting metal, or the nanowires can be composed of heavily doped semiconductors depending on the frequency of incident electromagnetic radiation.","The crossbar layers can be fabricated by mechanical nanoimprinting techniques. Alternatively, nanowires can be chemically synthesized and can be deposited as layers of approximately parallel nanowires in one or more processing steps, including Langmuir-Blodgett processes with subsequent patterning. Other alternative techniques for fabricating nanowires may also be employed. Thus, a two-layer nanowire crossbar comprising first and second layers of nanowires, as shown in , can be manufactured by any of numerous relatively straightforward processes. Many different types of conductive and semi-conductive nanowires can be chemically synthesized from metallic and semiconductor substances, from combinations of these types of substances, and from other types of substances. A nanowire crossbar may be connected to microscale address-wire leads or other electronic leads, through a variety of different methods in order to electronically couple the nanowires to electronic devices.","The resonant elements can be configured with dimensions that are smaller than the wavelength \u03bb of electromagnetic radiation incident on the crossbar  enabling the crossbar  to be operated as a NIM over particular wavelength ranges of interest. In particular, the size and shape of the fingers can be selected to have an appropriate inductance, resistance, and capacitance response to a wavelength of interest. In addition, because each resonant element can be separately addressed by biasing the pair of nanowires crossing at the selected resonant element, the refractive index of the intermediate layer of each resonant element can be adjusted by applying appropriate electronic signals, such as voltages or currents, to the nanowires. The size and shape of the fingers and control over the refractive index of the intermediate layer of the resonant elements enables the crossbar  to be configured and operated as a NIM over particular wavelength ranges of interest and shift the transmission phase of electromagnetic radiation transmitted through the crossbar .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1002","1004","1002","1004","1006","1002","1004"],"i":["Computational Electrodynamics: The Finite","Difference Time","Domain Method"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE I"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Parameter","Dimension"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"w","225 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"w","\u200290 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"w","450 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"w","450 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"g","\u200245 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"g","\u200245 nm"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["1007","1010"],"sub":"2 "},"For electromagnetic radiation polarized in the y-direction and incident on the crossbar  in the z-direction, curves  and  of plot  represent the real and imaginary refractive index components, respectively, over a range of wavelengths with no electronic signal applied to resonant elements of the crossbar . A portion  of the real component  indicates that the crossbar  exhibits a negative refractive index for incident electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from approximately 1.42 \u03bcm to approximately 1.55 \u03bcm with the largest negative refractive index occurring for incident electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths of approximately 1.5 \u03bcm. Curves  and  of plot  represent the real and imaginary refractive index components with a 6% change in the refractive index when appropriate electronic signals are applied to the nanowires of the crossbar . Curve  exhibits a real negative refractive index shift for incident electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from approximately 1.32 \u03bcm to approximately 1.46 \u03bcm with the largest negative refractive index occurring for incident electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths of approximately 1.4 \u03bcm. In other words, the crossbar  can be operated to change the refractive index that incident electromagnetic radiation encounters over particular wavelength ranges. For example, incident electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength of interest, such as a wavelength of approximately 1.5 \u03bcm, encounters the strongest real negative refractive index component when no electronic signal is applied to the crossbar . However, when appropriate electronic signals are applied to the nanowires, the refractive index encountered by the wavelength of interest is shifted to a positive relatively smaller in magnitude refractive index, as indicated by directional arrow .","A change in the refractive index encountered by the wavelength of interest shifts the transmission phase of the wavelength of interest. Curves - of plot  represent the transmission phase of electromagnetic radiation over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar  for three different refractive indices. Curve  represents the transmission phase acquired by electromagnetic radiation over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar  when no electronic signal is applied to the crossbar . Curve  represents the transmission phase acquired by electromagnetic radiation over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar  when electronic signals applied to the nanowires of the crossbar  increase the refractive index of the intermediate layers - by 3%. Curve  represents the transmission phase acquired by electromagnetic radiation over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar  when electronic signals applied to the nanowires of the crossbar  decrease the refractive index of the intermediate layers - by 3%. The crossbar  can be operated to shift the phase acquired by a wavelength of interest. The transmission phase is the phase acquired by electromagnetic radiation transmitted through the crossbar . For example, when no electronic signal is applied to the crossbar , point  indicates that electromagnetic radiation with the wavelength interest, approximately 1.58 \u03bcm, transmitted through the crossbar  acquires a transmission phase of approximately \u22120.7 radians. On the other hand, when electronic signals corresponding to the curve  are applied to the crossbar , the wavelength of interest acquires a transmission phase of approximately \u22121.78 radians, which is a transmission phase shift of approximately \u22121.2 radians from the point  to the point , as indicated by directional arrow .","The refractive index of the materials selected for the intermediate layer of the resonant elements can vary according to the particular molecular configuration or electronic states of the material. The materials selected for the resonant elements exhibit an appreciable refractive index change in response to externally applied electric fields, which can be used to control the resonant behavior of the phase shift, as described above with reference to . In certain embodiments, the material may transition reversibly from one state to another and back, so that the resonant elements may be reconfigured, or programmed, by application of differential current levels or voltages, called electronic signals, to selected resonant elements. The molecules comprising the intermediate layers of the resonant elements may have various different states in which the molecules exhibit resistive, semiconductor-like, or conductive electrical properties. The states and relative energies of the states of the intermediate layer materials may be controlled by applying differential current levels or voltages to the overlapping nanowires forming the resonant element. For example, in certain embodiments, certain states of the intermediate layer materials can be set by applying electronic signals to nanowires of a resonant element. In certain embodiments, the applied electronic signals can change the oxidation or redox state of the intermediate layer material which induces a change in the refractive index of the resonant element. Additional circuit elements such as diodes, transistors, memristors, capacitors, and resistors for optimal performance can be formed at resonant elements or a part of the nanowire crossbar. A nanowire crossbar can also be integrated with CMOS circuits.","In certain embodiments, the refractive index of the resonant elements can be configured and operated as p-n junctions in order to change the refractive index of the resonant elements by carrier injection.  shows an isometric view a resonant element  configured with a p-n junction intermediate layer  in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The p-n junction  can be composed of a wide variety of semiconductor materials including various combinations of elemental and compound semiconductors. Indirect elemental semiconductors include silicon (Si) and germanium (Ge), and compound semiconductors include III-V materials, where Roman numerals III and V represent elements in the IIIa and Va columns of the Periodic Table of the Elements. Compound semiconductors can be composed of column IIIa elements, such as aluminum (Al), gallium (Ga), and indium (In), in combination with column Va elements, such as nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), arsenic (As), and antimony (Sb). Compound semiconductors can also be further classified according to the relative quantities of III and V elements. For example, binary semiconductor compounds include semiconductors with empirical formulas GaAs, InP, InAs, and GaP; ternary compound semiconductors include semiconductors with empirical formula GaAsP, where y ranges from greater than 0 to less than 1; and quaternary compound semiconductors include semiconductors with empirical formula InGaAsP, where both x and y independently range from greater than 0 to less than 1. Other types of suitable compound semiconductors include II-VI materials, where II and VI represent elements in the IIb and VIa columns of the periodic table. For example, CdSe, ZnSe, ZnS, and ZnO are empirical formulas of exemplary binary II-VI compound semiconductors.","As shown in , p-n junction  includes a p-type layer and an n-type layer, where the p-type layer is doped with electron accepting impurities and the n-type layer is doped with electron donating impurities. The impurities also called dopants can be atoms. The dopants can be p-type impurities, which are atoms that introduce vacant electronic energy levels called \u201choles\u201d to the electronic band gaps of the p-n junction . These impurities are also called \u201celectron acceptors.\u201d The dopants can be n-type impurities, which are atoms that introduce filled electronic energy levels to the electronic band gap of the p-n junction . These impurities are called \u201celectron donors.\u201d For example, boron (B), Al, and Ga are p-type impurities that introduce vacant electronic energy levels near the valence band of Si; and P, As, and Sb are n-type impurities that introduce filled electronic energy levels near the conduction band of Si. In III-V compound semiconductors, column VI impurities substitute for column V sites in the III-V lattice and serve as n-type impurities, and column II impurities substitute for column III atoms in the III-V lattice to form p-type impurities. Moderate doping of the p-type and n-type layers can have impurity concentrations in excess of about 10impurities\/cmwhile heavier doping can have impurity concentrations in excess of about 10impurities\/cm.","The refractive index of the p-n junction  can be adjusted by varying the magnitude and type of bias applied to p-n junction . For example, a forward bias injects electrons into the n-type layer and vacant electronic states called \u201choles\u201d are injected into the p-type layer. Under a reverse bias, electrons are injected into the p-type layer and holes are injecting into the n-type layer. However, once the bias is removed, the electrons and holes are swept out of the layers and the p-n junction  returns to an unbiased electronic state. The refractive index of the p-n junction  is different under the forward, reverse, and no bias.","In other embodiments, the resonant elements can be configured as memristors that can change and retain their resistance state even after the bias has been removed. Each resistance state corresponds to a different refractive index.  shows an isometric view a resonant element  configured with an intermediate memristors layer  in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The memristor layer  includes a primary active region, or layer, and a secondary active region, or layer. The primary active region comprises a thin film of a material that is electronically semiconducting or nominally electronically insulating and can also be a weakly ionic conductor. The primary active material is capable of transporting and hosting ions that act as dopants to control the flow of electrons through the resonator element . The basic mode of operation is to apply a voltage bias of an appropriate magnitude and polarity across the memristor layers at the junctions. The electrical field, also called a \u201cdrift field,\u201d enables the motion of the dopants in the primary material to drift into or out of the primary material via ionic transport. The ionic species are specifically chosen from those that act as electrical dopants for the primary material, and thereby change the rectifying state of the primary active material. The memristor layer  can be placed in one of the four different types of rectifying states: a forward rectifier, a reverse rectifier, a head-to-head rectifier, and a shunted rectifier, as shown in . Each of the rectifying states corresponds to a different refractive index.","In addition, the primary active material and the dopants are chosen such that the drift of the dopants into or out of the primary active material is possible but not too facile in order to ensure that the memristor layer  remains in a particular rectifying state for a reasonable period of time, perhaps for many years at room temperature. This ensures that the memristor layer  is nonvolatile. In other words, the memristor layer  holds its rectifying state (i.e., keeps memory of its resistive state) after the drift field has been removed. Applying a drift field with a large enough magnitude causes both electron current and dopant to drift, whereas applying biases with lower relative voltage magnitudes than the drift field causes negligible dopant drift enabling the element to hold its rectifying state.","On the other hand, the secondary active region comprises a thin film that is a source of dopants for the primary active material. These dopants may be impurity atoms such as hydrogen or some other cation, such as alkali or transition metals, that act as electron donors for the primary active material. Alternatively, the dopants can be anion vacancies, which in the primary active material are charged and therefore are also electron donors for the lattice. It is also possible to drive the anions into the primary active material, which become electron acceptors or hole donors.","The primary active material can be nanocrystalline, nanoporous, or amorphous. The mobility of the dopants in such nanostructured materials is much higher than in bulk crystalline material, since diffusion can occur through grain boundaries, pores or through local structural imperfections in an amorphous material. Also, because the primary active material film is thin, the amount of time needed for dopants to diffuse into or out of region of the film to substantially change the film's conductivity is relatively rapid. For example, the time needed for a diffusive process varies as the square of the distance covered, so the time to diffuse one nanometer is one-millionth the time to diffuse one micrometer.","The primary active and secondary active regions of the memristor layer  are contacted on either side by nanowires or one of the nanowires can be composed of a semiconductor material and the other a metal. When the memristor layer  is composed of semiconductor material, the contract between a metal electrode and the memristor layer  depletes the memristor layer  of free charge carriers. Thus, the memristor layer  has a net charge that depends on the identity of the dopant which is positive in the case of electron donors and negative in the case of electron acceptors.","Switching from one rectifying state to another can be accomplished by applying an electric field of an appropriate magnitude and polarity across the memristor layer . The electric field forces the dopants to drift into or out of the electrode\/active region interface regions thus changing the rectifying state of the memristor layer . For example, as shown in , an appropriate electric field can be used to force dopants located near the interfaces of the shunted rectifier to move to one of the interfaces thus changing the shunted rectifier into either the forward rectifier or the reverse rectifier.","The ability of the charged species to diffuse into and out of the primary active material is substantially improved if one of the interfaces connecting the memristor layer  to a metal or semiconductor electrode is non-covalently bonded. Such an interface may be caused by a void in the material or it may be the result of an interface that contains a material that does not form covalent bonds with the electrode, the primary active material, or both. This non-covalently bonded interface lowers the activation energy of the atomic rearrangements that are needed for drift of the dopants in the primary active material. This interface is essentially an extremely thin insulator, and adds very little to the total series resistance of the element.","The primary and secondary active materials of the memristor layer  can be oxides, sulfides, selenides, nitrides, phosphides, arsenides, chlorides, hydrides, and bromides of the transition and rare earth metals, with or without the alkaline earth metals being present. In addition, there are various alloys of these compounds with each other, which can have a wide range of compositions if they are mutually soluble in each other. In addition, the memristor layer  can be composed of mixed compounds, in which there are two or more metal atoms combined with some number of electronegative elements. The dopants can be anion vacancies or different valence elements doped in the memristor layer . One combination of materials is a primary active material that is undoped and stoichiometric, and thus a good insulator, combined with a secondary source\/sink of the same or related parent material that either contains a large concentration of anion vacancies or other dopants that can drift into the primary material under the application of an appropriate bias.","The memristor layer  can be composed of oxides that contain at least one oxygen atom (O) and at least one other element. In particular, the memristor layer  can be composed of silica (SiO), titania (TiO), nickel-oxide (NiO), zirconia (ZrO), and hafnia (HfO) with or without 3d impurities (e.g., Cr, Mn), or sp-impurities (e.g., Li, Be, Ca). These materials are compatible with silicon (Si) integrated circuit technology because they do not create doping in the Si. Other embodiments for the memristor layer  include alloys of these oxides in pairs or with all three of the elements Ti, Zr, and Hf present. For example, the memristor layer  can be composed of TiZrHfO, where x+y+z=1. Related compounds include titanates, zirconates, and hafnates. For example, titanates includes ATiO, where A represents one of the divalent elements strontium (Sr), barium (Ba) calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), zinc (Zn), and cadmium (Cd). In general, the memristor layer  can be composed of ABO, where A represents a divalent element (e.g., Sr, Ba) and B represents Ti, Zr, and Hf. The memristor layer  can also be composed of alloys of these various compounds, such as CaSrBaTiZrHfO, where a+b+c=1 and x+y+z=1. There are also a wide variety of other oxides of the transition and rare earth metals with different valences that may be used, both individually and as more complex compounds. In each case, the mobile dopant can be an oxygen vacancy or an aliovalent element doped into the memristor layer . The oxygen vacancies effectively act as dopants with one shallow and one deep energy level. Because even a relatively minor nonstoichiometry of about 0.1% oxygen vacancies in TiOis approximately equivalent to 10dopants\/cm, modulating oxygen vacancy profiles have strong effect on electron transport.","In other embodiments, the memristor layer  can be a sulfide or a selenide of the transition metals with some ionic bonding character, essentially the sulfide and selenide analogues of the oxides described above.","In other embodiments, the memristor layer  can be a semiconducting nitride or a semiconducting halide. For example, semiconducting nitrides include AlN, GaN, ScN, YN, LaN, rare earth nitrides, and alloys of these compounds and more complex mixed metal nitrides, and semiconducting halides include CuCl, CuBr, and AgCl. The memristor layer  can be a phosphide or an arsenide of various transition and rare earth metals. In all of these compounds, the mobile dopant can be an anion vacancy or an aliovalent element.","A variety of dopants can be used and are selected from a group consisting of hydrogen, alkali, and alkaline earth cations, transition metal cations, rare earth cations, oxygen anions or vacancies, nitrogen anions or vacancies, pnictide anions or vacancies, or halide anions or vacancies. Other suitable materials include metal hydrides, such as MgNiH, MgMnH, MgCoH, MgCoH, MgCoH, and MgFeH, and copper oxides, such as CuO and CuO, exhibit large changes in refractive indices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1402","1400","1404","1406","1404","1406","1400","1400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 7","FIG. 15"],"b":["1400","1501","1502","1503","1501","1501","1506","1502","1508","1503","1510","1501","1510","1510"]},"The effective refractive index of each phase-modulation element can be varied by applying particular voltages or currents to each element.  shows a number of phase-modulation elements having different refractive indices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Each phase-modulation element is electronically addressable as described above with reference to , and depending on the magnitude of the electronic signal applied to each element, the effective refractive index of each element can be separately adjusted. For example, shaded phase-modulation elements - of a region  each represent elements having different effective refractive indices which result from applying different voltages or currents to each of the elements -. The change in the effective refractive index can range from a few percent to approximately 10%, but coupled with a resonant negative element, the change in the effective refractive index is larger.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16","FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIG. 17","FIG. 10"],"b":["1606","1400","1602","1604","1602","1604","1602","1604","1602","1701","1703","1704","1706","1602","1602","1602","1602","1002","1004","1603","1604"],"sub":["3 ","6 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 18A","FIG. 17","FIG. 18B","FIG. 17","FIG. 18C","FIG. 17"],"b":["18","18","1602","1802","1602","18","18","1603","1803","1603","18","18","1604","1804","1604"]},"Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to phase-modulation elements comprising a square array of nine resonant elements. Because voltages can be applied to individual crossed nanowires, the number of square array resonant elements comprising a single phase-modulation element can range from as few as 4 to hundreds or even thousands of resonant elements. In addition, the individual nanowires enable phase-modulation elements to have various shapes such as square, rectangular, circular, elliptical, triangular, or any other suitable shape.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19","FIG. 17","FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["1400","1901","1903","1904","1906","1907","1909","1907","1908","1909","1901","1903","1907","1909","1904","1907","1905","1908","1906","1910","1912","1907","1909","1910","1912","1907","1909","1400","1907","1909","1907","1908","1908","1909","1907","1909","1907","1909","1907","1909","1907","1909"],"sub":["1","2","1","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIGS. 15-18"],"b":["1400","1400","2002","2009","1400","2002"]},"In operating the optical device  as a converging lens, the magnitude of the effective refractive index of the annular regions - increase from the outer most annular region  to the inner most annular region . For example, the magnitude of the effective refractive index of the annular region  is larger than the effective refractive index of the annular region . As a result, the relative rate at which electromagnetic radiation of an appropriate wavelength \u03bb passes through the optical device  relatively increases from the physical center of the optical device  toward the outer regions of the optical device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"],"b":["2102","2104","2106","2108","2002","2004","2006","2008","2110","2113","2002","2004","2006","2008","1400","1400","2110","2113","2002","2008","2008","2008"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22","FIGS. 20-21"],"b":["1400","1400","1400","2202","1400","1400","2204","2204","2202","1400","1400","1400","1400","1400","1400","2210","2206","2209","1400","2210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIGS. 20-21","FIG. 20","FIGS. 15-18","FIG. 21"],"b":["1400","1400","2002","2009","1400","1400","2002","2008","2102","2104","2106","2108","2008","2006","2004","2002","2110","2113","1400","1400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIGS. 20-21"],"b":["1400","1400","1400","2302","1400","2304","2304","2302","1400","1400","1400","1400","1400","1400","2306","2309","1400","1400"]},"The pattern of ring-shaped concentric annular regions described above with reference to  is merely one example of the possible patterns and shapes of different regions of the optical device  that can be employed in operating the optical device  as a converging or a diverging lens. In other embodiments, the pattern of regions can be concentric elliptical, square, rectangular, irregularly shaped regions, or any other suitable pattern of regions for focusing or diverging transmitted electromagnetic radiation. In addition, embodiments of the present invention are not limited to just patterns comprising eight regions in operating the optical device , the number of regions can be increased so that electromagnetic radiation passing through the optical device  experiences a nearly continuous range of effective refractive indices.","The optical element  can also be operated as a prism to refract or bend transmitted electromagnetic radiation in a selected direction.  shows the optical device  operated as a prism by electronically addressing the phase-modulation elements of a pattern of regions - with effective refractive indices that increase from the region  to the region . For example, the phase-modulation elements in region  are electronically addressed as described above with reference to  to have relatively larger effective refractive indices than the region .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["1400","1400","2502","2402","2409","2502","2504","1400","2402","1400","2409","2506","2509","1400","2506","2509","1400"]},"In other embodiments of the present invention, the optical device  can be mounted in the path of a laser beam to sharpen the transverse profile of the laser beam.  shows the optical device  in the path of a laser beam  output from a laser . The annular regions - are electronically addressed such that the effective refractive indices of the inner annular regions - substantially transmit the laser beam  and the outer annular regions - are electronically addressed to substantially block the transmission of the laser beam .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 27","FIG. 26"],"b":["2702","2702","2704","1400","1400","2602","2604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIGS. 20-26","FIGS. 20-26"],"b":["2801","1400","2802","1400","2803","1400","2802","2803","2804","1400"]},"The optical device  can be operated as described above by a hardware system that allows a user to electronically address each resonant element as described above with reference to . The hardware system can be any electronic device, including, but not limited to: a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a portable computer, a display system, a computer monitor, a navigation system, a personal digital assistant, a handheld electronic device, an embedded electronic device, or an appliance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 29","b":["1400","2902","2902","1400","2902","1400","2902","1400","2904"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 30","b":["3000","3000","3002","3004","1400","3006","3008","3010","3012","3012"]},"The computer readable medium  can be any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution and storage of data regarding electronically addressing the optical device . For example, the computer readable medium  can be non-volatile media, such as an optical or a magnetic disk; volatile media, such as memory; and transmission media, such as coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic, electromagnetic radiation, or radio frequency waves.","The computer-readable medium  also includes an operating system , such as Mac OS, Windows, Unix, and Linux; a network communications module ; and an intrinsic image application . The operating system  can be multi-user, multiprocessing, multitasking, multithreading, real-time and the like. The operating system  can also perform basic tasks such as recognizing input from input devices, such as a keyboard or a keypad; sending output to the display ; keeping track of files and directories on medium ; controlling peripheral devices, such as disk drives, printers, optical device ; and managing traffic on the one or more buses . The network applications  includes various components for establishing and maintaining network connections, such as software for implementing communication protocols including TCP\/IP, HTTP, Ethernet, USB, and FireWire. The computer readable medium  can also store other software applications, including word processors, browsers, e-mail, Instant Messaging, and media players.","The optical device application  provides various software components for enabling electronic addressing of resonant elements, as described above with reference to . In certain embodiments, some or all of the processes performed by the application  can be integrated into the operating system . In certain embodiments, the processes can be at least partially implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer hardware, firmware, software, or in any combination thereof.","The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously, many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents:"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 1B-1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A-18C","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 30"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
