---
title: Unified messaging architecture
abstract: A system and/or methodology that unifies a telephonic communication component and/or system with a data (e.g., messaging) server component and/or system. The system can facilitate telephonically accessing rich information in the server (e.g., messaging server). This rich information can include email content, calendar content, contacts information, or the like. Moreover, with access to an application programming interface, the invention can add functionality to initiate email communications as well as to accept or cancel meetings. Furthermore, the invention can synchronize messages of disparate formats. By way of example a user can set an “Out of Office” (OOF) status on both an email systems and telephone voicemail system from one location in one action. In another aspect, it will be appreciated that any message or data component can be analyzed, transformed, matched and/or communicated from one system to another (e.g., server to telephone) in accordance with the subject invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090083&OS=08090083&RS=08090083
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08090083
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090526
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a Continuation of co-pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/087,007 entitled \u201cUnified Messaging Architecture\u201d filed Mar. 22, 2005, which is incorporated herein by reference. Under provisions of 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e), Applicants claim the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/620,826 filed Oct. 20, 2004, which is also incorporated herein by reference.","This invention is related to messaging systems, and more particularly to a unified messaging system that can facilitate telephonic access to rich data information maintained in a server to enhance functionality and streamline operation.","With the technological advances in telephonic communication devices (e.g., smart phones), there is an ongoing and increasing need to maximize the benefit of these continually emerging technologies by unifying them with rich data-based communication and organization systems. Specifically, there is a need to leverage the flexibility and performance of these telephonic communication devices with respect to existing applications and systems (e.g., email, calendar organizers and fax servers). Additionally, a need exists to develop unified systems and\/or methodologies that employ voice recognition and conversion techniques thus integrating and\/or unifying these communication systems.","Today, the popularity and functionality of the exchange of information via mobile communications devices is rapidly increasing. For example, text messaging (e.g., instant messaging) and wireless Internet access via portable communication devices have become commonplace. Virtually all sectors of today's society rely upon these methods of communication.","With respect to two-way communication, telephone systems and functionality are virtually isolated from computer programs and servers. For example, a user voicemail account does not seamlessly interact with an email account or vice-versa. In a specific scenario, when an employee of a company leaves the office for an extended period of time, an \u201cout-of-office\u201d (OOF) message is frequently recorded on the employee outgoing voice message service to alert callers of the absence. Because of the lack of compatibility and synchronization functionality, the employee frequently configures a separate OOF email message to alert persons attempting to contact the employee via email of the absence.","Conventionally, unified messaging systems and\/or methodologies do not exist to enable a user to functionally interact with one system via the other system. Therefore, a substantial need exists to combine, unify and\/or integrate telephonic systems with rich data systems (e.g., email applications) to increase flexibility, functionality and versatility.","Although attempts have been made to combine text communication functionality into telephonic-type devices, a substantial need exists for a system that unifies functionality of these systems thereby permitting a user to remotely access, manage and generate rich data information. Additionally, a need exists for a system and\/or methodology that employs voice conversion mechanisms as well as text-to-speech technologies to unify and\/or synchronize these communications systems.","The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","The subject invention, in one aspect thereof, allows a user to connect to a server (e.g., messaging server) via a telephonic communications component thereby accessing the rich information therein. The invention comprises a system and\/or methodology that unifies a telephonic communications component and\/or system with a messaging server component and\/or system. For example, with access to an application programming interface, the invention can add functionality to enable telephonic generation and retrieval of email communications. The invention can further facilitate accepting or canceling calendar items (e.g., meeting requests and appointments) via a telephonic communications device.","With reference to another aspect, since both the telephone client and the email client can employ the same backend information, the system can effect synchronization of an \u201cOut of the Office\u201d (OOF) greeting status for both systems. By way of example, today, users frequently set an OOF status on both an email system and telephone voicemail system. Because the content of an extended absence email auto-reply and a voicemail extended absence OOF greeting often contain similar information, this invention can allow users to set both the email and the voicemail OOF status at the same time from one place.","Yet another aspect is directed to a message and\/or document preview system. For instance, a voicemail can be converted by a speech-to-text engine thereby generating text of the content. Thus, a user can visually see a textual rendering of the content of the original voicemail message. Other aspects are directed to employing a text-to-speech engine to convert the content of an email communication to speech thus enabling review via a telephonic communication device.","Other aspects of the invention can analyze content in a user mailbox and thereafter determine the most important messages and content in the message(s). In one example, for the important messages, an algorithm can process unread emails, consider the importance flag of the email, identify the user and corresponding organizational structure and, interrogate for key words and threads thereby returning a ranking of the message importance. For most important sentences, there can be a complex algorithm that performs pattern matching for repeated words\/phrases.","In another aspect of the subject invention, calendar appointments and entries can be maintained and managed via a telephonic communications system. Today, users have limited access to their calendar from the telephone and thus, can only read limited information concerning existing appointments. With this invention, users are able to act on appointments and initiate communications related to appointments from a telephonic communications component. Users can accept, decline, and cancel appointments and requests for appointments from the telephone. Furthermore, a user telephone session with the voicemail system can automatically be transferred to a phone of the meeting location or to a participant (e.g., organizer) of the meeting. Finally, users can initiate an email message to the meeting participants (e.g., notification of a late arrival) via the telephone.","Other aspects of the invention are directed to security and digital rights management. For example, voice messages can be encoded with restrictions (e.g., do not forward, do not print, and do not save). These restrictions can be detected by the email client and subsequently be restricted in distribution and\/or modification of the resultant message.","Still another aspect is directed toward security features of a unified messaging system. Spoken password voicemail authentication can be accomplished by having the user pre-record a phrase that is stored with the mailbox of that user. When the user calls via a telephone system to log on, the phrase can be repeated and then compared with the phrase on record. A confidence rating that both phrases came from the same person is computed. If the confidence rating meets predetermined criteria, access is granted.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention can be employed and the subject invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The subject invention is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject invention. It may be evident, however, that the subject invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject invention.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component can be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution, and a component can be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","As used herein, the term to \u201cinfer\u201d or \u201cinference\u201d refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system, environment, and\/or user from a set of observations as captured via events and\/or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action, or can generate a probability distribution over states, for example. The inference can be probabilistic\u2014that is, the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher-level events from a set of events and\/or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and\/or stored event data, whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity, and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.","Referring now to , there is illustrated a high-level architectural diagram of a system  in accordance with an aspect of the subject invention. Generally, the system  can include a unified messaging (UM) system component , a telephonic communications component  and a computer application, state machine and\/or server component .","The telephonic communications component  can include any device capable of communicating voice and\/or audible sounds and signals. By way of example, the telephonic communications component  can include a traditional wired telephone as well as wireless (e.g., cellular) telephones. Further, the telephonic communications component  can be affected via a portable wireless device and\/or computer that employs voice over Internet protocol (VOIP) or fax over Internet protocol (FOIP).","The server component  can be employed to host any communication and\/or organizational application. For example, the server component  can host communication applications including, but not limited to, voicemail, email, text messaging applications or the like in connection with aspects of the subject invention.","In one aspect, the UM system  can unite the telephonic communications system  with the server component  (e.g., mailbox server). Accordingly, the telephonic communications system  can access the rich information maintained in the server component , thereby unifying the systems. Although  illustrates a single telephonic communications system  and a single server component , it is to be understood and appreciated that the invention is extensible thereby being capable of uniting multiple telephonic and\/or server systems.","Referring now to , there is illustrated an exemplary system architecture  in accordance with an aspect of the invention. The system  generally includes the UM system , the telephonic communications system  and server component . In one aspect, as illustrated, the telephonic communications component , the server component  and a plurality of clients  can be connected to the UM system  via a wired local area network connection  (e.g., Ethernet). Although three specific clients  (e.g., smart phone, desktop, laptop) are shown, it is to be appreciated that any number of clients  (e.g., email clients) can be employed without departing from the spirit and\/or scope of the subject invention. It will be understood that, in alternate aspects, connections illustrated in  can be wired, wireless or a combination thereof.","Furthermore, it is to be appreciated that the clients  can employ disparate communication techniques in order to communicate with the server component . For example, a smart phone, pocket personal computer (PC) or other handheld device can employ specialized communications software to synchronize to a mailbox server  or an active directory server . In another example, a desktop (e.g., client ) can employ a wired (e.g., Ethernet) connection thereby gaining access to the server component . Yet another exemplary client of the three clients  (e.g., laptop) can employ a wireless network connection to access the server component .","Turning now to the UM system component , a call control component , text-to-speech (TTS) engine , speech recognition engine , a voice media processing component , a fax media processing component  and a UM application component  can be provided. Each of these components can be better understood with reference to the exemplary scenarios infra.","The telephonic communications component  can include a public telephone  connected via a public switched telephone network (PSTN) , a private (e.g., in-house company) phone  connected via a private branch exchange (PBX)  or private telephone switchboard, and a computer system  that employs VOIP or FOIP. It will be appreciated that these components are exemplary and are not intended to be an exhaustive list of the telephonic communications component . In other words, telephonic communications component  can include any mechanism (e.g., wired, wireless, cellular telephones) capable of generating and\/or transmitting audible (e.g., voice, fax) signals. The call control component  works with the voice media control component (e.g., ) to share the task of handling voice communication. The call control component  facilitates setting up signaling and answering a call. The voice media processing component  actually handles the voice that then flows through the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["220","220","302","304","306","308","302","304","306","308","220"]},"In order to provide context to the invention, the following exemplary scenarios are provided. It is to be appreciated that the following scenarios are included merely to provide context to the invention. It will also be appreciated that additional scenarios exist which are not specifically disclosed herein. To this end, the scenarios infra are not intended to limit the scope and\/or functionality of the subject invention.","A first exemplary scenario is directed to a discussion of the email integration component . More particularly, this scenario is directed to an integration of an \u201cout-of-office\u201d (OOF) voicemail greeting and email. With reference again to , conventionally, the OOF status can be separately set on both a user specific email account (e.g., via client ) or voicemail account (e.g., via telephone , ). As will be appreciated, an OOF email auto-reply generated via the server component as well as the voicemail extended absence (e.g., OOF) greeting often contain similar information. The subject invention can facilitate simultaneously setting both the email and the voicemail OOF status from a single location in a single operation.","With continued reference to , when a user sets the OOF status from the email application (e.g., client ), the unified messaging system  can integrate (e.g., synchronize) the OOF message into the telephonic communications component . Accordingly, calls to the user via the telephonic communications system  will include an audible version of the OOF extended absence greeting. Through the use of text-to-speech conversion techniques of the TTS engine , this greeting can audibly render the text contained in the email OOF auto-reply.","Similarly, in the event that a user sets the OOF from the telephonic communication component  (e.g., telephone ), through voice recognition techniques of the speech recognition engine , the unified messaging system  can automatically set an email OOF message in the mailbox server . Thereafter, a sender of an email to the user will receive a text version of the OOF auto-reply that was originated via telephonic communication mechanisms.","A second scenario is directed to the calendar integration component  and particularly to calendar or planner access and management. Today, users have limited access to their calendar from telephonic systems (e.g., , , ) and can only read the information corresponding to appointments, which is maintained within server component . In accordance with an aspect of the subject invention, users can manage appointments and initiate communications related to appointments via the telephonic communication component  (e.g., telephone , , ). It will be appreciated that full planner functionality can be facilitated via speech recognition component  of the unified messaging system . For example, via the telephonic communications device , a user can accept, decline, modify, cancel, and communicate with respect to appointments contained within the server component .","In one aspect, a telephonic session with the unified messaging system  can be automatically transferred to a telephone of a meeting location. In other words, via the telephonic communication component , a user can connect to the unified messaging system  whereby, based upon a calendar (e.g., appointment) entry in the server component , a determination can be made with respect to an appropriate transfer target location for the call. Finally, by contacting the unified messaging system  via any telephonic communication device , a user can initiate a targeted or broadcast electronic message (e.g., email) to the meeting participants. For example, a user can inform meeting participants of a delayed arrival to a meeting.","Yet another aspect is directed to remote access of contact list entries via the contact list integration component . In connection with systems today, users cannot telephonically access their personal contact list, which is frequently stored on the email system (e.g., server ). In accordance with an aspect of the invention, from the telephonic communications device  (e.g., telephone , , ), a user can search for contacts in the contact list maintained within the server . If desired, the user can immediately connect to or leave a message (e.g., voice, text, email) for the contact. If the contact is an external contact with only an email address, this invention can allow a user to communicate an audible message by creating an email with a sound file attachment (e.g., .wav) thereby forwarding the communication to the intended target.","Turning now to a discussion of the security component  functionality of the UM application component , the subject invention can be employed to reset a personal identification number (PIN) via an email or other application. By way of example, when users forget their telephone voicemail PIN (e.g., password), they frequently have to contact an information technology (IT) helpdesk or system administrator to reset it. In accordance with the UM system , this invention can allow a user to log into their email on the server component  using domain credentials and reset\/change their telephone voicemail PIN (e.g., password).","Yet another scenario involving the-security component  is directed to digital rights management for voicemail. When leaving a voicemail today on the telephone, senders do not have any way to restrict the access to and\/or management of the message. With this invention, voice messages can be sent with restricted access. For instance, a voicemail can be sent whereby a recipient can listen to the voicemail, but can be restricted from forwarding or saving the message.","Referring again to the email integration component , conventionally, in situations where listening to a sound file is not appropriate (e.g., in a meeting), users are unable find out the contents of their voicemail. The UM system  (e.g., email integration component ) of the subject invention provides for text preview of voicemails (and vice versa). In accordance with the UM system , via an email client , users can textually access voicemails on their computer, laptop or other suitable device (e.g., smart phone). Through voice recognition techniques (e.g., speech recognition engine ), the subject invention can convert the voicemail thereby transcribing it into text. Therefore, users can review the content of the voice message without playing the sound file. Similarly, the TTS engine  can be employed to convert and deliver email communications via the telephonic communications device.","Additionally, the invention can facilitate converting electronic message attachments (e.g., word processing documents) to audible files (e.g., voice). This can be accomplished via the TTS component . In accordance therewith, in addition to rendering the audible content of an electronic communication, the subject invention can render an audible file that contains the content of a textual attachment. It will be understood that the TTS conversion techniques and navigational concepts described herein can be applied to file system directories and the like. In other words, the speech recognition engine  can be employed to effect navigation within a file system directory. Accordingly, the TTS engine  can be employed to convert a target document to speech thus rendering the audible (e.g., voice) file to a user via the telephonic communications component .","Another aspect is directed to employing the email integration component  to facilitate analyzing the content of an email communication message. For example, when email messages are audibly rendered to a user via the telephonic communication device , (e.g., telephone), often the messages can be very long and difficult to follow. A novel feature of this invention employs logic and\/or reasoning techniques to identify the most important messages and\/or sentences (e.g., content) included in a communication. These logic and\/or reasoning mechanisms can employ rule-based and\/or artificial intelligence (AI) mechanisms to effect filtering and\/or sorting of the content. Once identified, a streamlined or condensed version of the content can be audibly rendered to a user.","As previously described, the unified messaging system  can limit the audible playback of email messages to include only the most important messages and\/or sentences included therein. It will be appreciated that because the content can be filtered and\/or sorted in accordance with a desired algorithm (e.g., rule-based, AI), the quantity and length of the message(s) that are read to the user can be decreased. Likewise, important voicemail messages can be handled (e.g., filtered, sorted) in the same manner. Of course, when people receive many email messages over the telephone it can be difficult to navigate to the particular messages that are important to the user. With this invention, important voicemails can be identified by the UM system  and read to the user first. As well, voice messages can be filtered whereby only portions of the voicemails are read to the user.","Another novel feature of the subject invention is directed to facsimile transmissions. By way of example, in some organizations, all inbound facsimiles are directed to one mailbox where a router looks at the facsimile and directs it, via electronic means, to the appropriate person in the organization. If the facsimile message contains sensitive information, the person who is redirecting the facsimile would have access to information that was intended to be confidential. In accordance with an aspect of this invention, the UM system  can employ the fax media processing component  to separate the cover page from the remaining pages of a facsimile transmission. Therefore, the router who is redirecting the message can only have access to the cover page of the facsimile and not the confidential contents.","In another scenario, when people call a user and are transferred to the voicemail system, but do not leave a message, the callee does not always know that someone has called. In accordance with an aspect of this invention, the unified messaging system  can generate and forward an email message to the callee thereby notifying that someone has called but did not leave a voicemail message.","Still another novel aspect of the invention is directed to policy and compliance integration with an email system. Conventionally, voice messages are stored on a server (e.g., server component ) and are retained and\/or archived according to an arbitrary or preprogrammed policy. For example, one such policy can delete messages after a specific number of days (e.g., 21). With this invention (e.g., integration with the email system), a user can control which messages are deleted or archived from the telephonic communications component . As well, logic and\/or reasoning mechanisms can be applied to automatically manage retention and\/or deletion of messages.","Yet another aspect of the invention is directed to a system and\/or methodology to permit a user to select a keystroke profile scheme. It will be appreciated that different voicemail systems can have different keys to navigate and control the telephone user interface. If users change from one system to another, they often have to learn the new keys to use the new system. With this invention, button profiles can be employed for the most commonly used systems. Accordingly, a user can choose a predetermined profile that is familiar to that particular user. As well, buttons can be programmed as desired by a specific user. In this manner, the user does not necessarily have to learn a new keystroke profile scheme to access a new system.","Another novel aspect of the security component  is directed to employing voice recognition techniques to effect voicemail authentication. Today, when users access their mailbox from the telephone, they typically key in a PIN as their password. In many cases, this is not very secure and is inconvenient to the user (e.g., accessing while driving a car). With this invention, users can audibly speak a phrase or desired PIN to gain access to their mailbox. This can be more convenient and also more secure as the voice phrase must match a previously recorded phrase by the user. As well, the system can be programmed to learn qualities (e.g., voice tonal qualities) specific to a user.","Yet another exemplary aspect is directed to end-user configuration of menus and prompts. When end-users access their mailbox via the telephone, they do not have the capability to change the buttons or the information that is played back to them during the greeting. With this invention, users can specify a location of their greeting, therefore, depending on the user role, a more detailed greeting that contains additional information may be used. For example, an IT administrator might choose to put the number of critical escalation cases in their main mailbox greeting. In alternate aspects, it is to be appreciated that prompts (e.g., audio) can be customized on a per user basis. As well, the ordering of the state machine can user customizable.","In summary, aspects of the subject invention are directed toward at least the following novel components employed in connection with the UM system .","OOF Voicemail Greeting Integration with Email Application\u2014The aspect that the email and voicemail systems OOF status can be content matched thereby enabling a user to set the OOF status from one place. For example, the auto-reply email body can be read to the user as the telephone greeting using TTS mechanisms.","Calendar Access\u2014Capability to act on and interact with calendar appointments from the telephone in a novel manner. For example, a user can accept, decline, cancel, transfer to the phone of the meeting location, and initiate an email message to the meeting participants.","Contact List Access\u2014Capability to access personal contact list, rather than just the company directory. Ability to send, via the telephone, an email and sound file attachment to an email account.","PIN Reset\u2014Allowing the user to reset a password (e.g., voicemail password) via an email client. It will be understood that the operating system security credentials can maintain security.","Digital Rights Management for Voicemail\u2014Digital rights for voicemails are a new and novel concept. In other words, the invention can be employed to control and\/or restrict access to voicemail content. For instance, a recipient can listen to a voicemail, but can be restricted from forwarding or saving the message.","Text Preview of Voicemails\u2014Using speech to text conversion techniques, the subject invention can convert recorded voicemails into a textual message. The message can then be sent to the recipient via an email client application. As well, the system contemplates text to speech conversion for text messages. Moreover, the system contemplates generating and attaching a sound file (e.g., .wav format) of a voice message to an email. Thus, the email and attachment can be forwarded to the recipient.","Secure Facsimile Handling\u2014The subject invention can extract the cover page (e.g., first page) from a received facsimile transmission thereby, retaining confidentiality of remaining pages of the transmission.","Most Importance Sentences\u2014Based upon predefined logic and\/or reasoning techniques, the invention can determine and rank sentences of a communication (e.g., email and\/or voicemail) in terms of importance. For example, ranking can occur with regard to a given an email thread and key words contained therein. It will be appreciated that the ranking of sentences and\/or keywords can generally provide a summary of the entire email without having to review it completely. Additionally, aspects are directed to using this technology for reading textual emails via the telephone, which is also a novel concept of the invention.","Important Messages\u2014The fact that users can optionally apply filtering criteria (e.g., rule-based, AI) is particularly novel with respect to email messages. The subject invention can analyze email threads and rank them accordingly. By way of example, the system can determine the sender of a message, employ a policy, logic and\/or reasoning mechanism thereby ranking and\/or categorizing the importance of the messages. In one aspect, the system can use this technology to determine an order with respect to reading the messages to the user over the telephone. As well, this technology can be employed to filter emails prior to presenting them to a user via a telephone.","Missed Call Notification\u2014This component can be integrated into the unified messaging system thereby providing third party call control by monitoring traffic. In one aspect, the system can monitor and advise a client of received calls. For example, the system can effect communicating a missed call notification after a predefined number of rings (e.g., 3).","Policy and Compliance Integration with Email System\u2014novel rule-based and\/or AI policies can be applied to voicemails and\/or emails thereby effecting management and retention of the content.","Button Profiles\u2014The subject invention provides for functionality that integrates novel button profile definition mechanisms.","Spoken Password Voicemail Authentication\u2014The invention can employ a secure spoken password to access a voicemail and\/or email mailbox through a telephone. This audible authentication is a novel use of the authentication technology.","End-User Configuration of Menus and Prompts\u2014The subject invention provides for the ability to customize end-user menus and prompts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"At , an audible OOF message is recorded. The system can identify corresponding email account(s) at . Once identified, conversion can begin. At , the audible OOF message can be converted to a text OOF message. Accordingly, at , the text OOF message can be applied to the identified email account(s). Thus, although different format (e.g., voicemail vs. email), the content of the OOF can be replicated to the disparate system. Although the methodology of  illustrates a process that can convert a voicemail OOF into an email OOF, it is to be understood that an alternate novel aspect of the subject invention can be employed to convert an email OOF into a voicemail system.","As described supra, it is to be appreciated that the aforementioned novel aspects of the invention can employ rule-based logic and\/or AI reasoning technology to effect, predict and\/or infer an action. More particularly, it will be appreciated that the subject invention (e.g., in connection with content analysis, content retention policy, synchronization, voice recognition) can employ various rule-based and\/or AI based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof.","Continuing with the above described scenarios and with reference to , a block schematic view of an alternative UM application component  is shown. As illustrated, UM application component  can include a rule-based logic engine . As will later be described with reference to , an optional AI component (not shown) can be used together with, or in place of, the rule-based logic engine  to automatically infer an action or set of actions to be employed in connection with the functionality of the UM application component  (and UM system ) described supra.","In the exemplary aspect of , the rule-based logic engine  can be programmed or configured in accordance with a predefined preference (e.g., rule). For example, a rule (e.g., logic) can be constructed to automatically prioritize emails based upon a defined hierarchy. In accordance thereto, the emails can be converted and read to a user in a prioritized order. More particularly, a rule can be established to take into consideration the subject, sender identification, recipient identification, etc. to prioritize and process emails. In another aspect, a rule can be established to predetermine or define a policy whereby emails and\/or voicemails can be managed (e.g., retained, forwarded, deleted) in accordance with the policy.","A schematic diagram of another alternative aspect of the subject invention is illustrated in . The UM application component  of this alternative aspect illustrated in  employs an optional AI component  that can automatically infer and\/or predict an action. This alternative aspect can optionally include an inference module (not shown) that facilitates automatic control and\/or operation of the UM application component .","In accordance with this aspect, the optional AI component  can facilitate automatically performing various aspects (e.g., analysis and prioritization of content, content retention policy, synchronization, voice recognition) of the subject invention as described herein. The AI component  can optionally include an inference component (not shown) that can further enhance automated aspects of the AI component utilizing, in part, inference based schemes to facilitate inferring intended actions to be performed at a given time and\/or state. The AI-based aspects of the invention can be effected via any suitable machine-learning based technique and\/or statistical-based techniques and\/or probabilistic-based techniques.","In the alternate aspect, as further illustrated by , the subject invention (e.g., in connection with content analysis, content retention policy, synchronization, voice recognition) can optionally employ various artificial intelligence based schemes for automatically carrying out various aspects thereof. Specifically, the AI component  can optionally be provided to implement aspects of the subject invention based upon AI processes (e.g., confidence, inference). For example, a process for determining the prioritization of content in an email based upon user preferences or sender identification can be facilitated via an automatic classifier system and process. Further, the optional AI component  can be employed to facilitate an automated process of rendering prioritized content to a user based upon a predicted and\/or inferred preference.","A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector, x=(x1, x2, x3, x4, xn), to a confidence that the input belongs to a class, that is, f(x)=confidence(class). Such classification can employ a probabilistic and\/or statistical-based analysis (e.g., factoring into the analysis utilities and costs) to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed.","A support vector machine (SVM) is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs, which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non-triggering events. Intuitively, this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near, but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include, e.g., naive Bayes, Bayesian networks, decision trees, and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.","As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification, the subject invention can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained (e.g., via a generic training data) as well as implicitly trained (e.g., via observing user behavior, receiving extrinsic information). For example, SVM's can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. In other words, the use of expert systems, fuzzy logic, support vector machines, greedy search algorithms, rule-based systems, Bayesian models (e.g., Bayesian networks), neural networks, other non-linear training techniques, data fusion, utility-based analytical systems, systems employing Bayesian models, etc. are contemplated and are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.","Illustrated in  are flow diagrams of an exemplary user interface (UI) of a UM system in accordance with an aspect of the invention. As described supra, this UM system can facilitate management of voicemail, email and faxes stored in a server mailbox. The subject invention facilitates access to and management of this information from a telephone UI. In accordance with the UI, users are able to access their voicemail and other useful information from the telephone in lieu of accessing a desktop computer or handheld device.","Following are exemplary scenarios that this invention can address. In the first scenario, suppose a user is headed to a meeting in a remote location, but is not sure which room in the building the meeting will be held. The user may want to quickly find this information while driving his car toward the meeting. One aspect of this invention can facilitate telephonic retrieval of this information.","In another scenario, suppose a user is actually late to a meeting and desires to call into the conference room to participate over the phone before getting there. Here, the user can telephonically access the meeting location information and subsequently be transferred to the meeting location.","In a third scenario, suppose a user is driving to work in the morning and wants to get a head start on the some of the issues that are pending in emails or voicemails. From the telephone UI, the user can quickly review the different issues, reply as desired, and follow-up with the people involved with the issues.","In a final exemplary scenario, suppose a user is in a hotel room without access to a printer and wishes to send emails as well as calendar appointments for the following day to the hotel fax so that the user can review materials and plan the day. One aspect of the invention facilitates this functionality via a telephonic connection. The procedure flow of these and other aspects will be better understood upon a review of  that follow.","Referring now to , an exemplary process task flow diagram of calling into a UM is shown. The process illustrates a flow of procedures in accordance to a call initiated by an external caller  and an internal caller . As illustrated, the process flow of the exemplary aspect is dependent upon the type of caller (e.g., external  or internal ) as well as the contact number dialed at . An external caller will be prompted with the company information at  whereby an internal caller with internal information at .","In each scenario, a caller can contact a user located on the system by spelling the name and employing the directory search at  or by connecting directly to the extension () by entering the numeric extension. If the user does not answer, at , the system can play the appropriate greeting (e.g., external, internal, OOF) in accordance with the type of caller. Accordingly, a voicemail message can be recorded at . If a pre-designated key (e.g., \u201c*\u201d) is pressed, the system can enter the callee mailbox at .","It is to be appreciated that the callee can access the mailbox directly from  by choosing a pre-designated key (e.g., \u201c#\u201d) from the company and\/or internal greeting menu (, ). This direct access will prompt the callee for necessary information at . In each case, once the appropriate security credential information is entered at , access to the UM is gained at .  illustrates a continued procedure flow diagram once access is granted.","Referring now to , once access to the UM is granted at , the user can be prompted with a main menu at . By way of example, the user can be prompted to press \u201c1\u201d for voicemail, \u201c2\u201d for calendar options, \u201c3\u201d for contacts, \u201c4\u201d for email and so on. Option numbers \u201c2\u201d and \u201c3\u201d, e.g., calendar options and contacts, will be discussed in greater detail with reference to  respectfully. By way of further example, a user can choose \u201c5\u201d to send a message (e.g., voicemail, email) or \u201c7\u201d to set an OOF. Additional exemplary menu choices are illustrated in block .","As shown, if voicemail or email is chosen the system proceeds to  whereby content can be presented to the user. In other words, the user can be presented with voicemail, email and\/or meeting request content. It is to be appreciated that logic and reasoning mechanisms can be employed to manage, organize, filter and\/or sort the content as described supra. As illustrated, once the content is presented, the user can be presented with an \u201cafter message\u201d menu thereby presenting additional options. By way of example, by pressing \u201c4\u201d a user can send a facsimile of a desired message. In other words, once a user listens to a voicemail and\/or TTS converted email, the user can opt to send a facsimile of the message to a desired location. As well, by pressing \u201c3\u201d, the user can reply to the message or accept a meeting appointment request. By choosing option \u201c2\u201d, a user can call the sender of a particular message at . This \u201ccall\u201d option will be discussed in greater detail with reference to . It is to be appreciated that the options shown in the UI process flow of  are exemplary and are not intended to be an exhaustive list of options available to a user.","At , a list of exemplary play commands, which are presented during playback of a message, are shown. Again, this list is not intended to be exhaustive in view of the functionality described herein. As illustrated, it will be appreciated that the system can affect a pause, undelete, repeat, etc. task in accordance with options shown at .","Turning now to , an exemplary flow diagram of calendar access is shown. At , the system can play the number of pending meetings. As well, as illustrated at , the user can manage the meeting appointments and\/or requests by selecting any of various options. For example, the user can select option \u201c2\u201d to call the meeting location, \u201c2,2\u201d to call the meeting organizer or \u201c3\u201d to indicate a late arrival to the subject meeting. As well, additional navigational options can be presented to the user as illustrated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["712","1002","1002"]},"Illustrated in  is a process flow diagram to record a message. The message is recorded at . At , the user is presented with a variety of options to manage the recording. For example, the user can mark the message with high priority by depressing \u201c1,1\u201d or restrict access by depressing \u201c5\u201d. Once complete, the user can exit the system at .","Referring now to , there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject invention,  and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable computing environment  in which the various aspects of the subject invention can be implemented. While the invention has been described above in the general context of computer-executable instructions that may run on one or more computers, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and\/or as a combination of hardware and software.","Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations, including single-processor or multiprocessor computer systems, minicomputers, mainframe computers, as well as personal computers, hand-held computing devices, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, and the like, each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.","The illustrated aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","A computer typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital video disk (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.","Communication media typically embodies computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","With reference again to , there is illustrated an exemplary environment  for implementing various aspects of the invention that includes a computer , the computer  including a processing unit , a system memory  and a system bus . The system bus  couples system components including, but not limited to, the system memory  to the processing unit . The processing unit  can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi-processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .","The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus (with or without a memory controller), a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory  includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) is stored in a non-volatile memory  such as ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up. The RAM  can also include a high-speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.","The computer  further includes an internal hard disk drive (HDD)  (e.g., EIDE, SATA), which internal hard disk drive  may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis (not shown), a magnetic floppy disk drive (FDD) , (e.g., to read from or write to a removable diskette ) and an optical disk drive , (e.g., reading a CD-ROM disk  or, to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD). The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  can be connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface  and an optical drive interface , respectively. The interface  for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus (USB) and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.","The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data, data structures, computer-executable instructions, and so forth. For the computer , the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer-readable media above refers to a HDD, a removable magnetic diskette, and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer, such as zip drives, magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, cartridges, and the like, may also be used in the exemplary operating environment, and further, that any such media may contain computer-executable instructions for performing the methods of the subject invention.","A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules  and program data . All or portions of the operating system, applications, modules, and\/or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the subject invention can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.","A user can enter commands and information into the computer  through one or more wired\/wireless input devices; e.g., a keyboard  and a pointing device, such as a mouse . Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, an IR remote control, a joystick, a game pad, a stylus pen, touch screen, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through an input device interface  that is coupled to the system bus , but can be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, an IEEE 1394 serial port, a game port, a USB port, an IR interface, etc.","A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor , a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as speakers, printers, etc.","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and\/or wireless communications to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer(s) . The remote computer(s)  can be a workstation, a server computer, a router, a personal computer, portable computer, microprocessor-based entertainment appliance, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer , although, for purposes of brevity, only a memory storage device  is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired\/wireless connectivity to a local area network (LAN)  and\/or larger networks, e.g., a wide area network (WAN) . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices, and companies, and facilitate enterprise-wide computer networks, such as intranets, all of which may connect to a global communication network, e.g., the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the local network  through a wired and\/or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor  may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN , which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  can include a modem , or is connected to a communications server on the WAN , or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as by way of the Internet. The modem , which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device, is connected to the system bus  via the serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, can be stored in the remote memory\/storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.","The computer  is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication, e.g., a printer, scanner, desktop and\/or portable computer, portable data assistant, communications satellite, any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag (e.g., a kiosk, news stand, restroom), and telephone. This includes at least Wi-Fi and Bluetooth\u2122 wireless technologies. Thus, the communication can be a predefined structure as with conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.","Wi-Fi, or Wireless Fidelity, allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home, a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work, without wires. Wi-Fi is a wireless technology like a cell phone that enables such devices, e.g., computers, to send and receive data indoors and out; anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi-Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 (a, b, g, etc.) to provide secure, reliable, fast wireless connectivity. A Wi-Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other, to the Internet, and to wired networks (which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet). Wi-Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands, at an 11 Mbps (802.11a) or 54 Mbps (802.11b) data rate, for example, or with products that contain both bands (dual band), so the networks can provide real-world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.","Referring now to , there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment  in accordance with the subject invention. The system  includes one or more client(s) . The client(s)  can be hardware and\/or software (e.g., threads, processes, computing devices). The client(s)  can house cookie(s) and\/or associated contextual information by employing the subject invention, for example. The system  also includes one or more server(s) . The server(s)  can also be hardware and\/or software (e.g., threads, processes, computing devices). The servers  can house threads to perform transformations by employing the subject invention, for example. One possible communication between a client  and a server  can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and\/or associated contextual information, for example. The system  includes a communication framework  (e.g., a global communication network such as the Internet) that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client(s)  and the server(s) .","Communications can be facilitated via a wired (including optical fiber) and\/or wireless technology. The client(s)  are operatively connected to one or more client data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the client(s)  (e.g., cookie(s) and\/or associated contextual information). Similarly, the server(s)  are operatively connected to one or more server data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the servers .","What has been described above includes examples of the subject invention. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject invention, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject invention are possible. Accordingly, the subject invention is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the detailed description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A","b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A","b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
