---
title: Reliable communications in on-chip networks
abstract: Techniques for reliable communication in an on-chip network of a multi-core processor are provided. Packets are tagged with tags that define reliability requirements for the packets. The packets are routed in accordance with the reliability requirements. The reliability requirements and routing using them can ensure reliable communication in the on-chip network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08473818&OS=08473818&RS=08473818
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08473818
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091012
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The design and architecture of very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuits such as processors are quite complicated. It is generally recognized that performance is often sacrificed in order to ensure reliable operation of the processor. With the development of multi-core processors, the ability to reliably deliver data becomes a bigger concern.","The development of multi-core processors leads to additional connections and structural complexity. Links between cores may lengthen and the propagation time for voltage levels typically increases. In addition, the proliferation of components in multi-core processors, the smaller size and increased density of transistors makes it likely, for example, that on-chip switches and links will fail either intermittently or permanently. As a result, the ability to deliver data in the on-chip network of the multi-core processor becomes less reliable.","At the same time, there are many applications where reliable communication is a requirement. Parallelized applications, which are distributed to and performed by multiple cores, often rely on the tasks being performed by those cores to finish before moving forward. When communication fails in the on-chip network, the system or application may hang or otherwise fail.","The ability to reliably communicate between cores is an important concern in multi-core processor design. As previously stated, however, the development of a highly reliable processor likely sacrifices performance and likely increases cost. In order to improve performance, applications operating on multi-core processors face the prospect of achieving reliable communication on a relatively unreliable on-chip network.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof. In the drawings, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, drawings, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein, and illustrated in the Figures, can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.","Embodiments described herein relate to providing reliable communications in on-chip networks. Reliable communication can be achieved by associating reliability requirements with packets transmitted in the on-chip network. Reliability requirements can be associated with packets, for example, using tags that define reliability requirements for the packets. The reliability requirements associated with the tag can be interpreted before, during, and\/or after transmission and implemented before, during, and\/or after transmission.","Alternatively or in addition to the tag, reliability requirements can also include settings of the cores or other components in the on-chip network of a multi-core processor. The settings can be altered, dynamically in some instances, in accordance with the reliability requirement of a packet or set to achieve the reliability requirement. The performance of on-chip communications can be dynamically adapted as packets are transmitted in the on-chip network using the tag and\/or the settings to achieve a desired level of performance for packet delivery.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The multi-core processor  illustrated in  is a multi-core processor and includes processor cores . The processor cores  execute instructions, perform calculations, and otherwise provide the computing and processing capability a computer or computer system. The processor cores  can communicate with other modules or components in a computer via an input\/output module . The input\/output modules  can receive\/transmit data that is often carried out over a system bus  and connect to other components of a computing system. The input\/output modules  can be configured or are capable of operating in accordance with multiple protocols including, but not limited to, Gigabit Ethernet, XAUI, PCIe, JTAG, TWI, or the like and may provide serializing\/deserializing of a data stream, asynchronous transmission, or the like.","The input\/output modules  may include separate modules, which may be configurable, for each protocol. The input\/output modules  may enable the multi-core processor  or the computer to communicate with other computers over networks such as a local area network, the Internet, or the like. For example, a server computer having the multi-core processor  may communicate with a client computer over a network. In the preceding example, the client computer may or may not have the multi-core processor .","The multi-core processor  also includes controllers . The controllers , which may include multiple controllers , may provide access to system memory such as various cache levels, RAM, or the like or any combination thereof. Of course, each of the processor cores  may include its own cache as well. One of skill in the art can appreciate that the multi-core processor  may include other modules (e.g., instruction decoders, bus interface unit, address generator, floating point units, integer execution units, registers, etc.).","Further, the multi-core processor  may be integrated into a single chip. Alternatively, some of the modules or components of the multi-core processor  may be in separate chips that interact with each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["140","100","140","130","140","130","150","150","150","150","150","150","150","150","150","150","150","150"],"i":["a","b","c","a","b","c","a","b","c "]},"Each core  is generally the same, although there may be instances where some of the cores  differ structurally from other cores. For example, some of the cores  may interface with the input\/output modules  or the controller , directly while some of the cores may communicate with these modules through other cores. Some of the cores may have more processing capabilities or power than others. The core , which is included in the cores  and located in the interior of the processor cores  in this example, may communicate with modules or components through other cores , although one of skill in the art can appreciate that direct communication may also be possible.","The cores  can be arranged in different configurations or topologies. Mesh topologies, torus topologies, or fat tree topologies are examples of core topologies that may be used in the multi-core processor .","Each core  includes a processor that can function independently of other cores in the processor cores . Each core  can typically execute computer program on its own if necessary. One advantage of the multi-core processor  is that the cores  can work collectively to perform an application or execute instructions, etc.","When collectively executing an application, the cores  may have different responsibilities within the application being executed. As a result, the multi-core processor  is able to execute an application more quickly than when processing the same application with a single core or compared to a single-core processor. In addition, the cores  can operate on different applications or processes in a computing system at the same time. This allows, for example, some of the cores  to perform one application, while other cores  perform or execute other applications or processes. In addition, the cores  can also switch between application processes. Thus, a specific core such as the core may perform multiple processes for one or more applications.","When executing a process or application in the multi-core environment such as illustrated by the processor cores , there is often a need for data (e.g., application data, addresses, instructions, etc.) to be transferred from one of the cores  to another of the cores  (e.g., from the core to the core ). This may often be achieved using the on-chip network , which includes the connections .","In , the connections  are used to connect the cores  to each other. While all of the cores  may not be directly connected to each other (e.g., the core may not be directly connected to the core ), the connections  ensure that any of the cores  can communicate with any other of the cores .","For example, when the cores  are arranged in a grid configuration, the cores  may have connections  in up, right, left, and down directions. In this example, each connection  may include multiple channels . The channels  may include the physical connections between the cores . In this example, multiple channels may exist between directly connected cores .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["150","100","150","140","152","150","200","200","150","150","220","222","200","200","202","204","206","208","152","152","202","204","206","208","150","150"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a ","a "]},"The network switch  interfaces with the connections , , , and  through ports . More specifically, the channels represented by each of the connections , , , and  are connected to specific ports included in the ports . In the illustrated example, the core has direct connections to four other cores. Each connection may include, by way of example only, five channels. Each of the connections , , , and  may include more or fewer channels as well. In addition, the network switch  may be connected to the processor  via channels . The channels  may be used for communication between the processor  and the network switch . For example, packets to be processed by the core may be transferred to the core via the channels .","The core also includes the cache . The cache  may be specific to the core (e.g., the cache  may be L1 and L2 cache for the processor ) or may be shared with other ports . Alternatively, the cache  may be included in the network switch  or accessible to the network switch  as well. Alternatively, the network switch  may have a controller and a cache that enable the network switch  to perform routing functions.","The network switch  also includes settings . The settings  may be used to control some of the operational aspects of the network switch . For example, the settings  may be used to control voltage levels of the network switch , clock speeds of the network switch , pipeline controls, or the like. The settings  may also be used to control operational aspects of the processor  in some instances.","The desired performance of the core or of the network switch  can be achieved by dynamically adjusting the settings . For example, increasing the clock speed can increase throughput, while lowering voltage levels can conserve power. The settings  can be used to adjust voltage levels, clock speed, or the like to dynamically change the performance of the network switch , or of the core ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["306","310","302","304","100","302","150","310","304","150","310","306","302","304","150","100","310","310","310"]},"The path  can be determined dynamically while the packet  is in transit where the path  is unknown and where the next node or hop in the path  is determined at each core . The next node of hop in the path  may be determined at the current network switch  in real-time or in quasi real-time. The destination core may be known, but the path  to the destination core may not be known and is determined while the packet  is in transit.","Alternatively, the path  may be predetermined and established as a virtual path prior to transmission of the packet .","The packet  includes a tag . The tag  can be added to the packet  as a way to identify at least one reliability requirement for the packet . Alternatively, the tag  can be separate from (i.e., not included as part of) the packet . For example, if the packet  must be delivered to the destination core , the tag  indicates this requirement (e.g., delivery confirmation) for the packet . The tag  can be used to insure that the delivery of the packet  is reliable even when the underlying on-chip network may be less reliable.","In another example, the tag  may specify that the packet  should be delivered in a specified time period. The transit time of the packet  can be updated and evaluated at each node. If the specified time period expires before the packet  is delivered, then it may be dropped or a failure message may be returned to the originating core.","In another example, the tag  may specify that a copy of the packet is to be cached or buffered at one of the cores  until the packet  is delivered. The tag  may also specify the settings  that may be used by the network switch . The tag  can be used to enhance the reliability of the network switch  by slowing the clock rate or increasing voltage and thus improve the reliability of the transfer of packet .","In another example, the tag  may request that each core in the path  confirm to the preceding core the successful delivery of the packet  to the next or succeeding core in the path . Alternatively, this may be achieved by causing the destination core  to send a received notice back to the originating core  or to another core in the path . Also, the tag in  can be used to set up a circuit in the network that the packet should flow through in order to avid unreliable links and routers in the network.","These examples illustrate that the tag  can specify a desired level of reliability that can overcome instances where the on-chip network  or cores  are unreliable.","The reliability requirement specified or defined in the tag  of the packet  can be expressed in various ways. For example, the tag  may indicate that the packet  should be delivered within a predetermined time period. The tag  can be evaluated at any core in the path . If the reliability requirement in the tag  cannot be satisfied, then transmission may be abandoned (or aborted) and\/or another action or operation, which may also be identified in the tag  can be performed. For instance, the originating core  may be advised that the packet  was not delivered to the destination core  or that it was dropped. Other actions that may occur when the reliability requirement is not or cannot be satisfied include cancelling delivery of the packet, replacing the packet with an updated packet, or the like.","In another example, the reliability requirements in the tag  may simply require notification of delivery to the destination node  without regard to the path  or time elements. The tag  may indicate that the packet  follow a predetermined path\u2014such as a virtual path that has been previously established. The tag  may also be used to identify reliability requirements for subsequent packets. In a stream of packets, for example, the reliability requirements for all of the packets in the stream can be specified or defined in the tag , which may be attached to a subset of the packets in the stream of packets. In this case, the tag  can be applied to multiple packets without actually including the tag  in all of the packets.","In another example, the tag  may specify an acceptable error rate for transmission of the packet  (or a group of packets). Video data, for example, can be successfully delivered even when some of the packets are not delivered. Audio data, on the other hand is more noticeably affected by data loss. As a result, the reliability requirements for audio data may differ from the reliability requirements for video data.","The tag  may also express the reliability requirement in terms of time. The tag  may express that the packet  should be delivered within a certain time period. This can be checked at each core in the path  and\/or updated in each core.","These examples illustrate that the tag  can define the reliability requirements in terms of data type, request type, error percentage rate, acceptable error rate, delivery time periods, path identification, actions taken on delivery time period expiration, application priority, user input, or the like or any combination thereof.","The tag  can be represented by a bit or a set of bits in the packet , or included in a header of the packet , or other schema. The bit or header, for example, can indicate whether reliable transport of the packet  is required. The set of bits can be used to identify specific levels or to identify specific reliability requirements for the packet . In addition, the tag  can be set by an application, by an operating system, by a core, or by a virtual machine monitor. The origination of the reliability requirements defined by the tag  can thus vary according to circumstance. For example, there may be instances where the operating system can set the reliability requirements independently of the application or contrary to the application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["150","150","150","130","100","150","200","212"],"i":["a ","a ","a","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["212","210","402","404","406","408"]},"Because the core is currently set up for the virtual paths , , , , and  the settings  may be determined according to the path whose reliability requirements may be the highest or may indicate the most reliability. For example, packets transmitted in the virtual path  may be able to tolerate a certain percentage of data loss while the virtual path  may not be able to tolerate data loss or may tolerate a lower percentage of data loss. As a result, the settings  of the core may be set to accommodate the reliability requirements for the virtual path .","The settings  can be set to alter the performance of the multi-core processor . The settings  may also be used to select switching speeds of the network switch , clock rate, voltage levels, or the like. For example, while increasing the clock rate may lead to an error rate in data transmission, the error rate may be acceptable in certain circumstances. Similarly, altering the voltage level may have an impact on the error rate. In exchange for a slight increase in transient failures, the settings  can be adjusted to increase the clock rate or to reduce operating voltage to conserve power. The reliability requirements associated with the tag  can be used to set the settings  or set other delivery requirements on the packet  in order to provide a desired level of reliability even when the on-chip network may experience transient failures or otherwise be unreliable. The tag  can identify or specify certain settings  in accordance with the reliability requirements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","506"]},"Thus, the packet may be routed with a desired level of reliability that is reflected in the tag. As previously described, the desired level of reliability can be achieved in accordance with the tag.","One skilled in the art will appreciate that, for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein, the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore, the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples, and some of the steps and operations may be optional, combined into fewer steps and operations, or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","604","606"]},"Additionally, responding to a delivery failure can be managed using an application programming interface (API). This can allow the application to manage the delivery failure of the packet. For example, an application may determine that the packet is too old and cancel the delivery according to the age of the packet or according to an expiration time or expiration period of the packet. Alternatively, the application may send out a replacement packet or resend the packet. The application itself can determine when the replacement or resend packet is sent.","The API may also have access to a record of packet delivery failures that happened in the past. This record can be accessed over time, for a specific application, or the like. This record may allow the application, or the processing core or the operating system, to determine the reliability requirements of future packets. The record can also be used to adjust the mapping of different tasks to different switches or cores in the on-chip network. This may allow the performance to be improved using different settings. For example, the record may determine that certain switches can operate at higher clock rates while complying with the reliability requirement than other switches or cores. Mapping tasks or requesting that packet routing use certain cores and\/or switches can thus improve performance. These tasks can be implemented in the memory of the multi-core processor , in the application or in the operating system.","The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application, which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure, in addition to those enumerated herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods, reagents, compounds compositions or biological systems, which can, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","700","704","706","708","704","706"]},"Depending on the desired configuration, each of the cores  may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor (\u03bcP), a microcontroller (\u03bcC), a digital signal processor (DSP), or any combination thereof. Cores  may include one more levels of caching, such as a level one cache  and a level two cache , a processor , and registers . An example processor  may include an arithmetic logic unit (ALU), a floating point unit (FPU), a digital signal processing core (DSP Core), or any combination thereof. An example memory controller  may also be used with cores , or in some implementations memory controller  may be an internal part of cores .","Depending on the desired configuration, system memory  may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory (such as RAM), non-volatile memory (such as ROM, flash memory, etc.) or any combination thereof. System memory  may include an operating system , one or more applications , and program data . Application  may include algorithms  that are arranged to reliably route and deliver packets in the on-chip network of a multi-core processor. Program data  may include or define reliability requirements  that may be useful for reliably transmitting packets in the on-chip network as will be further described below. In some embodiments, application  may be arranged to operate with program data  on operating system  such that the packets are delivered in accordance with the reliability requirements even when the underlying on-chip network may be unreliable. This described basic configuration  is illustrated in  by those components within the inner dashed line.","Computing device  may have additional features or functionality, and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration  and any required devices and interfaces. For example, a bus\/interface controller  may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration  and one or more data storage devices  via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices  may be removable storage devices , non-removable storage devices , or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non-removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard-disk drives (HDD), optical disk drives such as compact disk (CD) drives or digital versatile disk (DVD) drives, solid state drives (SSD), and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data.","System memory , removable storage devices  and non-removable storage devices  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .","Computing device  may also include an interface bus  for facilitating communication from various interface devices (e.g., output devices , peripheral interfaces , and communication devices ) to basic configuration  via bus\/interface controller . Example output devices  include a graphics multi-core processor  and an audio multi-core processor , which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A\/V ports . Example peripheral interfaces  include a serial interface controller  or a parallel interface controller , which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc.) or other peripheral devices (e.g., printer, scanner, etc.) via one or more I\/O ports . An example communication device  includes a network controller , which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices  over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .","The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and may include any information delivery media. A \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), microwave, infrared (IR) and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.","Computing device  may be implemented as a portion of a small-form factor portable (or mobile) electronic device such as a cell phone, a personal data assistant (PDA), a personal media player device, a wireless web-watch device, a personal headset device, an application specific device, or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device  may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non-laptop computer configurations.","With respect to the use of substantially any plural and\/or singular terms herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and\/or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and\/or application. The various singular\/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.","It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as \u201copen\u201d terms (e.g., the term \u201cincluding\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincluding but not limited to,\u201d the term \u201chaving\u201d should be interpreted as \u201chaving at least,\u201d the term \u201cincludes\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincludes but is not limited to,\u201d etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d (e.g., \u201ca\u201d and\/or \u201can\u201d should be interpreted to mean \u201cat least one\u201d or \u201cone or more\u201d); the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of \u201ctwo recitations,\u201d without other modifiers, means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations). Furthermore, in those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, and C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, and C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). In those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, or C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, or C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and\/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase \u201cA or B\u201d will be understood to include the possibilities of \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d or \u201cA and B.\u201d","In addition, where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.","As will be understood by one skilled in the art, for any and all purposes, such as in terms of providing a written description, all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves, thirds, quarters, fifths, tenths, etc. As a non-limiting example, each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third, middle third and upper third, etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as \u201cup to,\u201d \u201cat least,\u201d and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally, as will be understood by one skilled in the art, a range includes each individual member. Thus, for example, a group having 1-3 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, or 3 cells. Similarly, a group having 1-5 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 cells, and so forth.","From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration, and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly, the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting, with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
