---
title: Methods and systems utilizing behavioral data models with variants
abstract: Embodiments include computer systems, methods, and program code for developing and utilizing behavioral data models. The model can comprise a property and a behavior of the modeled component, with the property defining a data element of the modeled component and the behavior defining a variably applicable portion of the model. The behavior can comprise a programmatic expression of an operation to be performed when the model is consumed, such as a function for determining when the variably applicable portion of the model is to be used based on a condition. Consuming the model can comprise generating an in-memory representation of the modeled component comprising a data structure corresponding to the property and code configured to evaluate the condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08302069&OS=08302069&RS=08302069
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08302069
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090210
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61\/114,560, filed Nov. 14, 2008, and entitled \u201cBehavioral Data Model Driven Systems,\u201d which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","Each of the following U.S. Patent Applications filed on the same day as the present application and naming Basil Hosmer as inventor is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/368,447, entitled \u201cMethods and Systems Utilizing Behavioral Data Models\u201d; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/368,523, entitled \u201cMethods and Systems Utilizing Behavioral Data Models with Derived Properties\u201d; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/368,575, entitled \u201cMethods and Systems Utilizing Behavioral Data Models with Views\u201d.","In software engineering, a model comprises an abstract description of the software component(s) used by a software system of one or more applications, processes, or other functional units. A model can be defined using a modeling language that typically comprises a consistent set of rules used to interpret the syntax used to express the model. The model can formally define the structure and meaning of data.","For example, a modeled component can comprise a collection of information referred to as a \u201cclass\u201d in object-oriented programming, and an \u201cemployee\u201d object may comprise a collection of properties (data elements) for a particular instance of an \u201cemployee\u201d class. The properties can include, for example, a character parameter \u201cname,\u201d an integer parameter \u201cempID,\u201d and an integer parameter \u201cdob\u201d that is defined in code as:\n\n","Other programming languages may express the information represented by the \u201cemployee\u201d grouping and its properties differently. A data model for the information represented by the \u201cemployee\u201d class may be expressed more generally in a modeling language. For example, the model may reflect that on a more abstract level an \u201cemployee\u201d component can include an employee's first name, last name, employee number, and date of birth.","Various modeling languages exist that allow for modeling of data and processes of an application. For example, Unified Modeling Language (UML) provides a graphical language for modeling various aspects of a software system. Code generation based on models, such as UML, can allow a skeleton or framework of source code to be produced based on model specifications. For example, the \u201cemployee model\u201d may be used to generate the \u201cEmployee\u201d class noted above or another logical expression of the employee component.","Although useful in certain situations, existing modeling languages and implementations are not ideal. For example, a given unit of a software system can include data elements (e.g., properties) and functional components (e.g., methods, processes, etc.) that operate on data elements to process input and\/or to provide output.","Existing modeling solutions may not be able to fully express the nature of such a software system in an extensible and flexible manner. For instance, even if a model is used to generate a skeleton or framework, developers may still need to tie the framework together manually, such as by adding operations to support user interfaces, evaluation of classes or other parameter groups, and customizing the framework for different situations.","Embodiments include a computer system comprising a processor with access to a computer-readable medium embodying program components comprising a model of a modeled component and a computer application. The model can comprise a property and a behavior of the modeled component, with the property defining a data element of the modeled component and the behavior defining a variably applicable portion of the model. The behavior can comprise a programmatic expression of an operation to be performed when the model is used, such as a function for determining when the variably applicable portion of the model is to be used based on a condition. The computer application can be configured to consume the model by generating an in-memory representation of the modeled component comprising a data structure corresponding to the property and code configured to evaluate the condition. Embodiments also include computer-implemented methods and program code embodied in a computer-readable medium for accessing a model and consuming the model.","These illustrative embodiments are mentioned not to limit or define the limits of the present subject matter, but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Illustrative embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description, and further description is provided there. Advantages offered by various embodiments may be further understood by examining this specification and\/or by practicing one or more embodiments through use of the teachings herein.","Reference will now be made in detail to various and alternative exemplary embodiments and to the accompanying drawings, with like numerals representing substantially identical structural elements. Each example is provided by way of explanation, and not as a limitation. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications and variations can be made. For instance, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that this disclosure includes modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.","In accordance with aspects of the present subject matter, a modeling language can support a model that describes a software component in terms of properties and behaviors, explained further below. A model can be consumed (i.e., used) to yield an in-memory representation of the properties and behaviors. The model can be consumed by any suitable number of type of software systems or units of a software system. Thus, the term consumed can refer to any use of the model by a software component, including (but not limited to) use of the model in generating code and\/or in imparting meaning to data.","A property can refer to a model element that defines a data element of the modeled component and results in a data structure when the model is consumed. Examples of data structures include, but are not limited to, an object, a class, or other logical unit used by a program component (whether generated from the model or from another source) to refer to data that is accessed and\/or stored during course of operation of the program component.","A behavior can refer to a model element that defines an aspect of the modeled program component beyond the identity or structure of a data property. A behavior can define an evaluation to be made and\/or an operation to be performed in conjunction with one or more aspects of the modeled component when the model is used. As used herein, a behavior defines an operation by way of a programmatic expression using a modeling language. For example, a programmatic expression can comprise mathematical, logical, or another operation on one or more input parameters. A behavior can result in a functional component when the model is consumed\u2014i.e. one or more code segments that operate on one or more inputs to provide output. Examples of functional components include, but are not limited to, a method, subroutine, routine, or process.","For example, a behavior may comprise a programmatic expression for determining a derived property from an input parameter, with the input parameter referring to a property of the modeled component and\/or a component other than the modeled component. In some embodiments, the model may include constraints specifying conditions for testing the data values of instances of derived properties. For example, a constraint may be used to validate data provided via a modeled component when the modeled component is used.","As another example, a model can specify variants, which are variably-applicable portions of the model for use under specified conditions. For example, a model may define a first variant for a component and a second variant for the component, with choice of a first or second variant made when the model is used based on property values and\/or other conditions.","In some embodiments, a model can specify one or more views that abstractly represent a user interface calculated over a particular model. For example, a particular modeled component may include properties and behaviors that will be expressed using different functionality. Views can be used to define how elements of the model can be handled by different consuming software components.","As noted above, a model can be consumed to generate an in-memory representation of the modeled component. As used herein, an in-memory representation can comprise one or more data structures that are generated based on modeled properties and one or more functional components comprising code segment(s) that implement the behavior. The in-memory representation can feature data structures and code segments specified using a syntax so that the data structures and code segments can be manipulated and\/or used by the consuming application.","Consuming a model need not result in a separate computer application. Rather, in some embodiments, an application might load a model and use it to drive application behavior directly for a runtime or dynamic use of the model. For example, one or more data structures and functional components may be accessed by the application that consumes the model to process data by using the model to receive, evaluate, and\/or analyze data for input or output. For instance, the behaviors may result in subroutines or processes expressed as code segments accessed by the application that consumes the model. The data structures may be used to handle data for input, provide data for output, and\/or to store data by the generating application.","However, a model can be consumed to generate program components. At a general level, a program component can comprise a set of data that can be used in the operation of a computer system, and the term can include data structures and\/or code. The program components may be expressed as source code and\/or object code (i.e., executable code).","For example, an application development tool may consume modeled components to generate code specifying objects or classes based on the modeled components. Behaviors, when consumed, can result in code that accesses the properties and function(s) specified in the model to operate over the properties. If a model defines variants, then the portion(s) of the model that are used to generate code can vary according to conditions specified by the consuming software component.","As another example, the program components may comprise a configuration file used for a database, with the data structure(s) used to determine how data is stored in the database. The functional component(s) can be used to provide output to determine additional data items to store based on other input, and\/or to validate input.","In some embodiments, an architecture is used to allow models to be consumed by different types of components by specifying one or more libraries that allow for consumption of models. Specifically, a code library can be referenced by a consuming software component to define functions that are used to evaluate model syntax and provide output in a form that is meaningful to the consuming software component. For example, if the consuming software component is a JAVA-based application development tool, the library can comprise JAVA code for parsing the syntax of a model and compiling the model into JAVA code for use in the application development tool or into other code for other purposes. For example, although JAVA-based, the application development tool may be used to develop applications using other languages or may be used to generate object code based on the model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"In this example, a server  is used to provide access to a database  by a client . For example, server  may be implemented on one computing platform that may utilize a separate computing platform for managing and providing database ; alternatively, the same hardware may be used. Client  may comprise a separate computing platform, such as a personal computer, PDA, telephone, or the like that accesses server  via an appropriate network connection.","Several applications and other functional units are used in software system  to relay information between client platform  and database . In this example, a database table definition  is used to define and manage how employee data  is stored and retrieved. Server application  is used to access employee data  via database table definition  and to receive requests from client  and provide appropriate responses to client . Client application  is used to provide a suitable user interface for receiving user input, providing output, and interfacing with server application .","Each functional unit of software system  is handling a collection of information constituting an \u201cemployee\u201d component in this example. For example, database table definition  interacts with raw employee data . Server application  represents the employee data as an employee object . Client application  represents the employee data as a UI employee object  (e.g., data specifying how data received from server  will be rendered by the user interface of client ).","The \u201cemployee\u201d information may be represented in different ways for different components. In this example, the components that represent employee information are raw employee data , database table definition , employee object , and UI employee object . For example, employee data  may represent the employee data as one or more tables having rows and columns specified in database table definition . Employee object  may represent a nested structure of properties for one or more employee records accessed from database . A UI employee object may represent particular portions of data provided to client  based on employee object  along with particular properties for rendering the data for consumption by an end user (e.g., different properties may be provided for display in different portions of a screen).","Despite the different manner in which the components of various functional units of software system  represent \u201cemployee\u201d information, the \u201cemployee\u201d information can be abstracted into a model  that symbolically represents the \u201cemployee\u201d information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","206","200","120","212","214","216","200"]},"A library  can comprise program code that allows an application to recognize the syntax of a model. For example, a library  may define a plurality of functions for parsing model language and translating the model language into recognizable units for the application referencing the model. Multiple libraries can be used in some embodiments.","For example, development application  may rely on a library  to parse model  and generate code . Code  may comprise one or more program components based on model . Additionally or alternatively, development application  may utilize an in-memory representation of the model to facilitate the coding process. As another example, runtime application  may rely on a library  to parse model  and determine conditions for evaluating data  in order to provide output . For instance, model  may be used to generate subroutines and related data structures accessible by runtime application . Modeling application  may rely on a library  to determine the proper syntax for expressing a model  based on evaluating the structure and\/or content of data .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","301","302","300","300","304","206","308","310"]},"Variant  features a property  and variant  features a property . However, properties  and  in this example do not appear outside their respective variant. As will be discussed later below, variants may be used to provide flexibility when defining a model that will represent a component whose constituent elements differ depending on circumstances at the time the modeled component is rendered. As another example, a variant may be used to provide an in-memory representation that includes constituent elements for multiple scenarios and suitable functional components to evaluate which elements to use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","402","404","406","402","404"]},"In this example, a development application  consumes model  (and model ) using library  to provide program components expressed as code for an application . Library  allows development application  to translate the model specifications into appropriate source code elements. For example, development application may use models \/ to create corresponding objects for handling \u201ccompany\u201d and \u201cemployees\u201d in application . Based on the syntax of model  specifying that \u201cnumber of employees\u201d is derived from the collection property \u201cemployees\u201d , application  can include code corresponding to a function (e.g., a counting function) that determines the number of \u201cemployee\u201d objects and a property of the \u201ccompany\u201d object referencing the result of the counting function.","As another example, consider the (pseudocode) model for an object representing a \u201cperson\u201d:","object Person is","property firstName: String,","property lastName: String","property dateOfBirth: Date;","property fullName=lastName+\u201c,\u201d+firstName,","property age=years(today( )\u2212dateOfBirth);","In this example, the model library can specify how the particular syntax is to be translated into code or other expressions; for purposes of this discussion, the modeling language includes a string-concatenation operator name \u2018+\u2019 and the ability to specify constant strings using double quotes (\u201c). The library also recognizes a function today( ) that returns the current date, a subtraction operator (\u201c\u2212\u201d) and a function called \u201cyears( )\u201d that extracts the number of years from a time value.","The representation of a modeled object in a running application can have the derived properties without the need for hand-coding the functions to determine the derived properties. Instead, by recognizing references to the functions, when the model is \u201crendered,\u201d appropriate functions can be evaluated to provide the derived properties. In the example of , the model is \u201crendered\u201d by generating source code, but other examples include runtime interpretation of models and\/or hybrid approaches of generating code for certain portions\/models and runtime interpretation for other portions\/models. For example, when the model is consumed, a data structure for the derived property and code for evaluating the derived property may be generated and maintained in memory. The consuming application can access the input parameter and use the code for evaluating the derived property to populate the data structure for the derived property.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502","504","504","508","510","512"]},"The following pseudocode represents an example of an \u201cadult\u201d object:","object Adult is","property firstName: String,","property lastName: String","property dateOfBirth: Date;","property fullName=lastName+\u201c,\u201d+firstName,","property age=years(today( )\u2212dateOfBirth);","constraint is Adult=age>=18;","In the example of , model  is consumed by several consuming applications via library . For example, development application  may be used to author a FLEX(R) application for use with ADOBE(R) FLASH (R) or ADOBE(R) AIR\u2122 (all available from Adobe Systems Inc. of San Jose, Calif.) that uses an object representing an Adult. For example, an object in application  may be used to receive user input for a web-based service to update a voter registration database, with the object comprising a data structure based on the properties specified by model . The constraint may be used to generate code that prevents uploading a record corresponding to a non-adult. Development application  may be used to generate code for a server application  that validates incoming records to ensure that the record refers to an adult.","A development application may include appropriate user interface elements (e.g., wizards, dialogs, etc.) to receive user input specifying how the constraint is to be expressed in code. For example, a user may provide input specifying use of the \u201cAdult\u201d model and the development application can generate software code representing an \u201cadult\u201d object and functions for generating the derived properties and evaluating the constraint. The user may select actions to be taken when the constraint is not met and appropriate code may be generated to implement the desired action(s). In some embodiments, actions are automatically selected for handling when the constraint is not met and appropriate code is then generated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["520","520","514","500","522","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","524","526","528","524","500","524","524","500","510","512"]},"For instance, server application  may have access to library  to generate the code used for evaluating model  at runtime. Validation results  may comprise, for example, an indication as to whether the record should be used to update the database and\/or an error or confirmation message relayed to the provider of data . The data structure(s) used for providing validation results  may be specified in model  or a separate \u201cresult\u201d model.","The flexibility provided by use of a modeling language with properties and behaviors consumable via a common library is apparent when considering a change to the underlying context in which data is used. For instance, if the voting age is lowered or raised, in the absence of a model, then applications , , , and  would be recoded separately by hand. Instead, model  can be edited and then appropriate development tools can automatically update applications , , and . As another example, consider if an additional requirement were added for validating the voter registration database\u2014e.g., a residency requirement setting forth that a valid \u201cAdult\u201d must be a California resident. Model  could be updated to include a residency property or a property derived from reference to an external source. A constraint could be added to model  representing how particular residencies were to be excluded (e.g., constraint2 is Adult=state=\u201cCalifornia\u201d). Appropriate code could then be generated based on the updated model  to evaluate the new constraint when the model is consumed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","604","600","600"]},"A view can be used to provide sufficient information for providing a user interface for viewing some or all data of a modeled component, with the view capable of comprising more than a simple reflection of the stored structure of the modeled object. Put another way, a view is an abstract definition derived from a modeled component which specifies a structural transformation of the elements of the modeled object, including grouping, reordering, or flattening the elements. A view can, but does not necessarily need to, provide \u201ccomponent hints\u201d used by model consumers to control choices made in the course of generating or rendering interface functionality. For example, a hint may specify a particular version or arrangement of interface features that are preferred, but not necessary for the view. If the consuming application does not support the choices specified in the hint(s), the view can nonetheless be rendered. Additionally, a view can specify user interface behavior such as prompts, error messages, and other types of messages.","For example, model  may represent a relatively complex object used to store information about an employee. The object may comprise tens or hundreds of interrelated data items. A database may store the object as a \u201cflat\u201d row. Similarly, the object may be represented in memory of an application as a \u201cflat\u201d container of items. For display to a user, though, the data may be represented in an object having sections, pages, groupings, shortcuts, and other organizationally meaningful structural elements. A view can allow for integrated support of such structural elements. Other elements that may be specified via views include wizards, tab navigators, accordions, drop-down menus, etc. Essentially, any visual user interface paradigm can be associated with appropriate syntax in the modeling language and used to indicate how particular elements of a model should be rendered. Libraries, such as library , can be used to translate the view specifications into appropriate code and\/or to interpret the view for rendering elements of a modeled component.","In this example, a consuming application  relies on model , view , view , and a library  to produce code . Code  includes code segment A supporting a view of data specified by model  in a form set forth in view . Code segment B supports a view of data specified by model  in a form as set forth in view . A second application  relies only on view  and library  and is provided to illustrate using model  at runtime to determine how to provide output  based on data  that corresponds to information represented in model .","Consider, for example, a modeled \u201cEmployee\u201d object:","object EmployeeInfo is","property name,","property id","property age","property department",". . .","property phone 1,","property phone 2,",". . .","A user interface for data entry on this object may split the data entry task into two separate sub-tasks. For example, a wizard may be provided with a first page that contains personal information fields and a second page that contains contact information fields.","Rather than hand-coding the wizard for multiple implementations, one or more views of the Employee object can be defined to split the items into two groups, specify a \u201ccomponent hint\u201d indicating that a wizard-style interface is the preferred choice paradigm for data capture on the object, and to enumerate the items in each page alongside annotations for prompts to use in displaying the items.","view EmployeeDataCapture on EmployeeInfo is:","component \u201cwizard\u201d,","subview PersonalInfo","item name with prompt \u201cName\u201d,","item id with prompt \u201cEmployee ID\u201d,",". . . ;","subview ContactInfo","item phone1 with prompt \u201cPrimary Phone Number\u201d,","item phone2 with prompt \u201cSecondary Phone Number\u201d,",". . . ;","This example presumes a modeling syntax that recognizes the \u201cwizard\u201d component and next looks for subviews to be defined for the wizard. If, instead of \u201ccomponent wizard,\u201d the view specified \u201ccomponent tabs,\u201d then the different subviews could correspond to different tabs. In the example above, the view was defined over properties. However, a view may be defined over any elements of a modeled component, including derived properties.","Views may be selected based on user input and\/or by evaluating conditions tested against data values. For example, a property may be evaluated to determine if a particular part of a form is to be provided based on data entered in another portion of the form. For instance, an insurance form may include a data element for entry of a state. Different states may have different requirements, and so different parts of the form may be specified as views conditioned on the value for the \u201cstate\u201d property.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","704","708","710","700","706","712","700","706","716","714"]},"In abstracting a particular component into a model, certain decisions are made when grouping elements into particular components. In some instances, two groups of elements may share multiple common elements but have certain differences. In some embodiments of the present subject matter, applications can support the use of models that have \u201cvariants\u201d to allow for close, but inexact, matches to be considered under the same component umbrella.","As a specific example, consider a data object representing an address and comprising a data item containing a country code (e.g., \u201cUS\u201d or \u201cUK\u201d), a data item holding a US ZIP code, and a data item holding a UK postal code. Abstractly, an \u201caddress\u201d component will only have a US zip code when the country code is \u201cUS\u201d and will only have a UK postal code when the country code is \u201cUK\u201d (for this example, assume only a single address is represented by each instance of the modeled component). Although a \u201cUK Address\u201d object and a \u201cUS Address\u201d object could be separately defined, this could lead to complex and less flexible code.","Instead, a single \u201cAddress\u201d component can be modeled, with the model specifying a \u201cUK\u201d variant and a \u201cUS\u201d variant. When the model is consumed, the variants can be expressed in a manner that accommodates both possibilities or data can be used to select a single variant for rendering. Consider, for example, the following model of \u201cAddress\u201d:","object Address is","property addressee,","property streetAddress,","property countryCode,","variant(countryCode)","case \u2018US\u2019:","property usZipCode,","case \u2018UK\u2019:","property ukPostalCode;","This example is simplified for purposes of explanation. In practice, more complex selector expressions may be supported. For example, \u201cvariant(countryCode=\u2018US\u2019)\u201d would be a variant with two cases: \u201ctrue\u201d, when the country code is US and another case, \u201cfalse,\u201d for any other countryCode. Each case could support subdefinitions. For instance, case \u2018US\u2019 could support further definitions based on the usZipcode. Variants could be nested, and a default case can be provided. Additionally, although this example illustrates only properties, cases may additionally or alternatively be determined based on constraints and\/or derived properties.","Turning back to , the use of variants in model  can provide flexibility for users of application  and\/or . For example, application  can generate code  including code segments A and B representing the variants of the modeled component. If the language of code  itself supports variants, then the variants may be defined using the proper syntax of the language. However, code  may be rendered in a language that does not readily support defining objects with variants. Instead, code segments A and B may represent different classes specified in code  for addressing whether the data handled by the application resulting from code  encounters data for use in variant A or B, with code  comprising functions or other appropriate elements for selecting one of the classes depending on data being handled.","For example, code segment A may represent a \u201cUSAddress\u201d class while code segment B represents a \u201cUKAddress\u201d class. Additional code may be generated to evaluate the country code and select an instance of the proper class to handle data having the corresponding country code.","Application  may rely on model  to provide output at runtime based on incoming data . One of output A or output B may be provided depending on which variant of model  is invoked for a particular set of data . For example, application  may represent a process that evaluates incoming data  to determine whether to output a \u201cUSAddress\u201d object or a \u201cUKAddress\u201d object by evaluating a country code specified in the incoming data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","802","804","802","806","808","803","808","810","806","812","814","816"]},"The one or more processors  execute instructions in order to perform whatever software routines the computing system implements. The instructions frequently involve some sort of operation performed upon data. Memory  is deliberately made available to other components within the computing platform. For example, the data received from various interfaces to the computing system (e.g., keyboard and mouse, printer port, LAN port, modem port, etc.) or retrieved from an internal storage element of the computing system (e.g., hard disk drive) are often temporarily queued into memory  prior to their being operated upon by the one or more processor(s)  in the implementation of a software program. Similarly, data that a software program determines should be sent from the computing system to an outside entity through one of the computing system interfaces, or stored into an internal storage element, is often temporarily queued in memory  prior to its being transmitted or stored.","The ICH  is responsible for ensuring that such data is properly passed between the memory  and its appropriate corresponding computing system interface (and internal storage device if the computing system is so designed).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["820","822","824","804","820","824","822","824","822","822","804","824","820","822","824"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","902","904"]},"Block  represents making a library available for model-consuming units such as applications, processes, components, and other functional software units. Different model consumers may use different versions of the library to enable meaningful consumption of models. For example, a library may be specified to allow JAVA-based applications to access models while another library specifies how to access models for C++-based applications. Another library may allow for a model to be converted directly into executable code at runtime. In some embodiments, a library may be expressed in one language (e.g. JAVA) but allow rendering of models into a different language (e.g., C++, ACTIONSCRIPT\u2122).","Essentially, the core library provides a programmatic representation of the object that is the model; put another way, the library abstractly defines what a \u2018model\u2019 is in terms of a specific programming (or execution) language and how elements of a \u2018model\u2019 are to be expressed in the programming language. The library can comprise appropriate representations for different languages. Through use of the library, the model can be exposed as a useful structure to other software. Since the model includes properties and behaviors for the modeled component, the software with access to the module can provide a wide variety of output, including entire applications with user interface components defined by reference to the model and view(s).","For example, the libraries may be implemented in Java for use as a plug-in component for ADOBE(R) FLEX (R) BUILDER\u2122 so that MXML and ActionScript code can be used to develop a project using one or more behavioral data models.","A library may be accessed when defining a model and\/or view. For example, a model may be \u201cresolved\u201d by reference to the library to ensure that the model is consistent, uses proper types and expressions, etc. In some embodiments, a tool may support user interaction for defining a model based on evaluating other data as noted above. Once a valid model is available, it is usable via a programmatic API (application programming interface).","Block  represents rendering output from a model based on the model and library (and view(s) as appropriate). A wide variety of model consumption can be supported, as any software with knowledge of the API and access to the corresponding library can utilize models developed based on the API.","For example, if the model is loaded into a development application such as FLEX (R) BUILDER\u2122 noted above, the model may be present in memory as a collection of linked Java objects hosted by the core (target-independent) part the plug-in. The developer may invoke a code-generation function, provided by the non-core (target-specific) part of the plug-in. In some embodiments, this code generation may produce both code for client-side and server-side program components based on the model. On the client side, generated Flex code components will provide the application runtime functionality for requesting, modifying and saving the data objects defined in the model. On the server side, generated code will vary depending on the kind of server used in the project, but may include generated scripts for handling client requests for data objects defined by the model.","As another example, the developer may deploy the model to a J2EE server running one or more data services applications containing or having access to the core libraries described above and can be configured to perform model-driven operations directly based on a model. The model is deployed by sending its XML definition over the network to the running server. The server examines the model and creates remote destinations, available to clients, for requesting and saving model-defined data objects.","As a further example, models may also be used by development applications to provide a simpler, more guided development experience for less technical users. In this case, application information is collected by wizards and\/or silent database introspection (i.e. by sampling and analyzing data from the database), and stored in a model \u201cbehind the scenes.\u201d Subsequent modification of the model is presented to the user in a way which insulates them from model details. In such cases, the program component(s) generated from the model are accessed by other program components of the development application to provide output and\/or handle input from the developer.","As another example, models can be used as service descriptors to be consumed by an open set of applications. The scenarios above have a model being created as part of a project that includes a specific client. However, models may also be created to describe data services for use by clients that don't yet exist. In this case, the model is created in a tool as above, and then stored in a repository or on a server, in a way that allows future clients to request it.","These requests may come at client development time, in which case code may be generated from the model as described above. Or the requests may come at client runtime, in the case of a completely dynamic client. Here, models are being used as a rich (behavioral) description of a service.","Several examples above featured models stored in a computer-readable medium and created for use by human developers. However, in some embodiments, models may be created for in-memory use only by other software, rather than human developers. Such synthetic models may be completely transient, and never saved to disk, in which case they would only live as Java objects embodied in memory or another computer-readable medium while used without being explicitly defined in XML.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1002","1004"]},"Block  represents identifying the properties and behaviors specified in a model. This can be accomplished by recognizing the model syntax via reference to the library while parsing the model. For example, the portions of the model that identify the modeled component, its properties, its derived properties, its constraints, its variants, and the like can be represented in memory of the software application that is to consume the model.","Block  represents evaluating the behaviors specified in the model. For example, if derived properties are specified via functions using a model-specific syntax, then at block  those functions can be made available as an in-memory data structure (i.e., in a form that does not use the model-specific syntax) by the library APIs. By use of these APIs, the functions can be converted into a form suitable for evaluation, such as executable code in the target language, by the software application consuming the model.","If \u201clive\u201d values for the properties are available to the software consuming the model, then the constraints can be evaluated and variants selected based on evaluating the properties and other elements that depend on \u201clive\u201d values. The \u201clive\u201d values may correspond to data values for the properties that are used in specifying the constraints, variants, or other behaviors.","Block  represents generating one or more components based on the model. In view of the wide applicability of modeling as set forth herein, it will be understood that the particulars of block  will depend on the underlying purpose for consuming the model. For example, if the model is consumed for code generation, the particular components that are generated may depend on what type of code is to be generated and the purpose of the code. Thus, the consuming software application can rely on user input to determine what type(s) of output are to be generated based on the model.","For instance, a user may indicate that an application is to generate code representing an object corresponding to the model for use in an application under development. As another example, a user may indicate that a validation process is being coded. For instance, a sub-process or routine for validating an \u201cAdult\u201d object may be generated based on the \u201cAdult\u201d model with its constraint. A different model consuming application may be used to design a database by specifying table definitions. The \u201cAdult\u201d model may be used to determine which columns to include in the database.","Not all portions of a model need be used for an output scenario. For example, the constraints of the \u201cAdult\u201d model may not be expressed as columns in a database schema, but may be used in generating a client process or server back-end process. As another database-related example, variants such as the US zip code and UK postal code example above, may or may not be expressed in the same way\u2014for instance, the database may include a column for both values rather than selecting a single value as was suggested for other types of output. When designing a database based on a model that includes derived properties, the derived properties may be omitted from the database since including the derived properties may be duplicative.","As another example, block  may represent generating instructions for execution by a computing platform\u2014that is, the model may be used to control operation of a computing device by evaluating one or more input values without source code being generated.","As was noted above, in some embodiments, a code generating application can produce source code to render a model. The model may be used to define an object or class in a source code for an application under development along with functions and methods for populating properties of the object or class. As another example, the model may be used to define a database table or tables or to otherwise organize a set of data that is represented by the model. As another example, a model may be used to generate code for providing a data capture screen or to provide the data capture screen through direct execution of the model.","In some embodiments, block  can be omitted\u2014for instance, once an in-memory representation of the modeled component is available, the representation may be used directly by consuming applications as noted above.","The various systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provide a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor-based computer systems accessing stored software, but also application-specific integrated circuits and other programmable logic, and combinations thereof. Any suitable programming, scripting, or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software.","Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be executed by one or more suitable computing systems. Such system(s) may comprise one or more computing devices adapted or configured to perform one or more embodiments of the methods disclosed herein. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied\u2014for example, blocks can be re-ordered, combined, and\/or broken into sub-blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.","As noted above, such devices may access one or more computer-readable media that embody computer-readable instructions which, when executed by at least one computer, cause the at least one computer to implement one or more embodiments of the methods of the present subject matter. When software is utilized, the software may comprise one or more components, processes, and\/or applications. Additionally or alternatively to software, the computing device(s) may comprise circuitry that renders the device(s) operative to implement one or more of the methods of the present subject matter.","Examples of computing devices include, but are not limited to, servers, personal computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), cellular telephones, and portable music players. Computing devices may be integrated into other devices, e.g. \u201csmart\u201d appliances, automobiles, kiosks, and the like.","The inherent flexibility of computer-based systems allows for a great variety of possible configurations, combinations, and divisions of tasks and functionality between and among components. For instance, processes discussed herein may be implemented using a single computing device or multiple computing devices working in combination. Databases and applications may be implemented on a single system or distributed across multiple systems. Distributed components may operate sequentially or in parallel.","When data is obtained or accessed as between a first and second computer system or components thereof, the actual data may travel between the systems directly or indirectly. For example, if a first computer accesses data from a second computer, the access may involve one or more intermediary computers, proxies, and the like. The actual data may move between the first and second computers, or the first computer may provide a pointer or metafile that the second computer uses to access the actual data from a computer other than the first computer, for instance. Data may be \u201cpulled\u201d via a request, or \u201cpushed\u201d without a request in various embodiments.","The technology referenced herein also makes reference to communicating data between components, including communication over a network. It should be appreciated that such network communications may occur over any suitable number or type of networks, including, but not limited to, a dial-in network, a local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), public switched telephone network (PSTN), the Internet, an intranet or any combination of hard-wired and\/or wireless communication links.","Any suitable computer-readable medium or media may be used to implement or practice the presently-disclosed subject matter, including, but not limited to, diskettes, drives, magnetic-based storage media, optical storage media, including disks (including CD-ROMS, DVD-ROMS, and variants thereof), flash, RAM, ROM, and other memory devices, and the like.","The use of \u201cadapted to\u201d or \u201cconfigured to\u201d herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally, the use of \u201cbased on\u201d is meant to be open and inclusive, in that a process, step, calculation, or other action \u201cbased on\u201d one or more recited conditions or values may, in practice, be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings, lists, and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.","Some portions of the foregoing detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms, discussions, or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification, the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.","An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self-consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context, operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically, although not necessarily, such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to such signals as bits, data, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, numerals or the like. It should be understood, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels.","Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the foregoing discussion, it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as \u201cprocessing,\u201d \u201ccomputing,\u201d \u201ccalculating,\u201d \u201cdetermining\u201d or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus, such as a special purpose computer or a special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification, therefore, a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals, typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories, registers, or other information storage devices, transmission devices, or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.","In the foregoing detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, methods, apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.","While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof, it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art, upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to, variations of, and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly, it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation, and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications, variations and\/or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A full and enabling disclosure is set forth more particularly in the remainder of the specification. The specification makes reference to the following appended figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
