---
title: Device for imaging scenes with very large ranges of intensity
abstract: A device for imaging scenes with a very large range of intensity having a pair of polarizers, a primary lens, an attenuating mask, and an imaging device optically connected along an optical axis. Preferably, a secondary lens, positioned between the attenuating mask and the imaging device is used to focus light on the imaging device. The angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction is adjustable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08058608&OS=08058608&RS=08058608
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of Energy
number: 08058608
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090911
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","First Polarizer and Second Polarizer","Primary Lens","Attenuating Mask","Imaging Device","Additional Filters","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. and FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. "],"p":["The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE-AC07-05ID14517, between the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Battelle Energy Alliance, LLC.","A high-dynamic-range imaging system, preferably used with large dynamic ranges of intensity, more preferably for imaging welding scenes.","Various imaging devices, such as charge-coupled devices (CCD), charge-injection devices (CID), and complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) imaging devices have been extensively used for imaging scenes in many situations. In some situations, for example, when imaging welding scenes involving bright arcs and molten pools, imaging military activities having ammunition flashes or vehicle headlights, or imaging extra-solar planets having a vastly brighter parent star, the dynamic range of the intensity of light from the scenes can greatly exceed the dynamic range of the imaging device used.","To prevent the imaging device used from being partially or fully saturated, various methods have been used to attenuate the intensity and thereby increase the contrast of the bright areas of the scenes. Such methods comprise shuttering or filtering which globally reduce the intensity of light from the scenes, irrespective of bright areas or dimmer areas of the scenes.","Shuttering is a method for reducing light globally by reducing the exposure time of the imaging devices to the light from the scenes. By mechanically shuttering the light from the scenes to the imaging devices periodically, or by electronically discharging the imaging devices periodically, shuttering globally reduces the total amount of light. Filtering also globally reduces light from the scenes by attenuating light using one or more filters.","Another method of preventing the imaging device from being partially or fully saturated is high intensity light illumination. In high intensity light illumination, dimmer areas of the scenes are illuminated using flashlamps or lasers to provide a more uniform illumination throughout the scene. Shuttering synchronized with the external illumination or other global means of intensity reduction can then be used to bring the dynamic range of the entire scenes into conformity with the dynamic range of the imaging device. However, high intensity light illumination requires high energy consumption. Furthermore, in some situations, for example, imaging extra-solar planets having a vastly brighter parent star, the scenes to be imaged cannot be illuminated using flashlamps or lasers.","A device for imaging scenes with a very large range of intensity comprising a first polarizer, a second polarizer, a primary lens, an attenuating mask, and a imaging device. The first polarizer polarizes light in a first polarization direction. The second polarizer polarizes light in a second polarization direction. Along an optical axis, the second polarizer is positioned between the first polarizer and the primary lens, the attenuating mask is positioned between the primary lens and the imaging device. The first polarizer, the second polarizer, the primary lens, the attenuating mask, and the imaging device are optically connected passing at least some light from the scenes through the first polarizer, the second polarizer, the primary lens, and the attenuating mask to the imaging device. The angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction is adjustable. In one embodiment, one or more additional filters are added along the optical axis path for additional attenuation.","A device for imaging scenes with a very large range of intensity comprising a first polarizer, a second polarizer, a primary lens, an attenuating mask, and a imaging device. The first polarizer polarizes light in a first polarization direction. The second polarizer polarizes light in a second polarization direction. Along an optical axis, the second polarizer is positioned between the first polarizer and the primary lens, the attenuating mask is positioned between the primary lens and the imaging device. The first polarizer, the second polarizer, the primary lens, the attenuating mask, and the imaging device are optically connected passing at least some light from the scenes through the first polarizer, the second polarizer, the primary lens, and the attenuating mask to the imaging device. The angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction is adjustable. In one embodiment, one or more additional filters are added along the optical axis path for additional attenuation.","The first polarizer polarizes light into the first polarization direction. The second polarizer polarizes light into the second polarization direction. The first polarizer and the second polarizer are optically connected so that at least some light from the scenes to be imaged by the imaging device passes through the first polarizer and the second polarizer along an optical axis. The first polarizer is preferably a linear polarizer selected from a group including, but is not limited to, wire-grid polarizers, Polaroid films, elongated silver nanoparticle polarizers, quartz crystal polarizers, Glan-type polarizers, other absorptive, beam-splitting, birefringent or thin-film polarizers, or the combination thereof. The second polarizer is preferably a linear polarizer selected from a group including, but is not limited to, wire-grid polarizers, Polaroid films, elongated silver nanoparticle polarizers, quartz crystal polarizers, Glan-type polarizers, other absorptive, beam-splitting, birefringent or thin-film polarizers, or the combination thereof.","An alternative embodiment of the first polarizer is a combination of a variable wave retarder and a linear polarizer selected from a group enumerated above. An alternative embodiment of the second polarizer is a combination of a variable wave retarder and a linear polarizer selected from a group enumerated above.","Depending on the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction, light going through the first polarizer and the second polarizer is attenuated. The attenuation of light passing through the first polarizer and the second polarizer is minimized when the first polarization direction is parallel with the second polarization direction. The attenuation of light passing through the first polarizer and the second polarizer is maximized when the first polarization direction is perpendicular to the second polarization direction. The attenuation of light is variable from the minimum to the maximum attenuation as the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction change from being parallel to perpendicular to each other. Preferably, a linear polarizer is used for the first polarizer, and another linear polarizer is used for the second polarizer, as they will provide a simpler attenuating adjustment than other types (e.g. using a variable wave retarder).","One preferred embodiment of the first polarizer is a silver impregnated glass polarizer, and one preferred embodiment of the second polarizer is a silver impregnated glass polarizer, where the surface of the first polarizer and the surface of the second polarizer are perpendicular to the optical axis.","Preferably, the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction is adjustable either manually or using a motorized or electronic means. One embodiment of manually adjusting the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction is manually rotating the first polarizer, the second polarizer, or the combination thereof around the optical axis, where a rotation stage houses the first polarizer and another rotation stage houses the second polarizer.","One embodiment of using a motorized means for adjusting the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction uses a motorized gear box attached to the first polarizer, the second polarizer, or the combination thereof, whereby the motorized gear box rotates the first polarizer, the second polarizer, or the combination thereof around the optical axis. Exemplary embodiments are shown in and .","One embodiment of using an electronic means for adjusting the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction uses a combination of a linear polarizer and a variable liquid crystal retarder (VLCR) as the first polarizer, and a linear polarizer as the second polarizer. In this embodiment, light passes through the linear polarizer of the first polarizer, the VLCR, and the second polarizer in the stated order, where the fast axis of the FLCR is at about 45 degrees with the polarization direction of the linear polarizer of the first polarizer. The VLCR changes the retardation between zero and half-wave depending on the voltage applied to the VLCR, thereby varying the first polarization direction by up to 90 degrees. See for an exemplary embodiment.","The primary lens focuses light from the scenes along the optical axis onto the attenuating mask. Preferably, the primary lens has adequate image forming ability and freedom from aberrations to match the image quality requirements of the final application. Furthermore, the primary lens should be free of birefringence effects or other defects that could alter the polarization of the light passing through them.","The attenuating mask is positioned along the optical axis and in or substantially near where light from the scenes to be imaged by the imaging device is focused to an image plane by the primary lens. The attenuating mask attenuates light from a part of the scenes, but not the entire area of the scenes, while transmitting light from the other areas of the scenes without substantial attenuation. One embodiment of the attenuating mask is a static, i.e. non-dynamic attenuating mask having an attenuating pattern fixed on the mask. Preferably, the size and shape of the mask is designed to match the size and shape of the image of the area of maximum intensity. See or for two examples of embodiments of static attenuating masks.","An alternative embodiment of the attenuating mask is a dynamically attenuating mask including a pixelated liquid crystal light valve (LCLV) and a control system, where the control system dynamically changes the transmission through each pixel of the LCLV, thereby changing the area and the level of attenuation. See  for an exemplary embodiment.","Another embodiment of the attenuating mask is a dynamically attenuating mask including a micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) mirror device and a control system, where the MEMS mirror device selectively reduces the amount of light from the bright areas of the scenes by deflecting such light away from the angle going into the imaging device. See  for an exemplary embodiment.","In yet another embodiment, the attenuating mask is a polarizer. In this embodiment, the first polarizer and the second polarizer are preferably rotatable both relative to each other and as a pair relative to the mask polarization angle allowing the polarization outputted at the second polarizer to be adjusted without changing the global attenuation (from the first polarizer and the second polarizer). In this embodiment, the attenuating mask polarizes light from part of the scenes, therefore attenuating light from only a part of the scene. This is contrary to the first polarizer and second polarizer which both polarizes the entire scene, and therefore globally attenuate (attenuate the entire scene.) See  for an exemplary embodiment.","Light passing through the first polarizer, the second polarizer, the primary lens, and the attenuating mask is preferably focused by the secondary lens onto an active area of the imaging device, whereby the information regarding the intensity of the light within the active area of the primary device is obtained. Preferably, the imaging device is a film camera, charge-injection device (CID), charge-coupled device (CCD), complementary metal oxide silicon (CMOS) imaging device, or other imaging device. In one embodiment, the imaging device captures light outside the visible spectrum (i.e. in the IR or UV, etc.).","In a preferred embodiment, the imaging device obtains light intensity information on a pixel-by-pixel basis (e.g. CID, CCD, and CMOS imaging device) and sends the light intensity information to the control system for dynamically attenuating the light from the scenes to the imaging device. The CID is a preferred embodiment of the imaging device when in a radioactive environment, as it is resistant to interference from radioactive radiation.","One or more additional filters (e.g. spectral or neutral density filters) may be added along the optical axis. Preferably, any additional filters are designed to be moveable in or out of the optical axis allowing viewing of the scenes with or without the one or more additional filters.","In one embodiment, fixed, global neutral density filters or spectral filters that reject light intensities or spectral content outside the limits of performance of other optical components are positioned along the optical axis, preferably before the first polarizer. As many of the components, including the first polarizer and second polarizer may have limited spectral ranges, it may be necessary to introduce a spectral bandwidth filter to prevent out of spec light from leaking through the other components. Such leakage would degrade image contrast and perhaps resolution, as well.","In another embodiment, neutral density filters are used to reduce the maximum light intensity (after being attenuated by the system) to a level suitable for the imaging device. This embodiment is preferable for scenes having extreme light intensity either sustained or temporary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","a","a"],"b":["33","21","23","25","27","31","35","21","22","35","23","24","35","27","31","31"]},"Although, the embodiment shown in  has a first rotatable polarizer holder  and a second rotatable polarizer holder . either one of the first rotatable polarizer holder  or the second rotatable polarizer holder , may be omitted, since the rotation of only one polarizer will adjust the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction, thereby attenuating light.","Exemplary light paths  from the scene  to a imaging device  are shown. The attenuating mask  is positioned along the optical axis  and in or substantially near an aerial image  of the scene . The aerial image  is the focused image of light from the scene  after the light passes through the first polarizer , the second polarizer , and the primary lens . The attenuating mask  attenuates light from a partial area of the scene  coming through the first polarizer , the second polarizer , and the primary lens , thereby keeping the entire area of the scene  within the dynamic range for light intensity of the imaging device . The partial area of the scene  is preferably a bright area of the scene , whereby the light intensity focused on the imaging device  saturates all pixels of the imaging device  in the area, and the mask is designed to match the bright area.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","a. "],"b":["29","33","21","23","25","27","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","31"]},"The secondary lens  collects the transmitted light through the attenuating mask and focuses the scenes onto the imaging device. Preferably, both the primary lens  and the secondary lens  have adequate image forming ability and freedom from aberrations to match the image quality requirements of the final application. Furthermore, the primary lens  and the secondary lens  are preferably free of birefringence effects or other defects that could alter the polarization of the light passing through them.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a ","b":["41","35","21","33","41","21","23","25","27","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","29","31"]},"The hot mirror  substantially reflects heat (e.g. infrared light) or other unwanted radiation from the scenes , mostly allowing the transmission of visible light to pass through the first polarizer , the second polarizer , the primary lens , the attenuating mask , the secondary lens , and the imaging device . Preferably, the hot mirror  is made of a glass plate, one of whose surface is coated with multiple stacks of layers of thin film. In one embodiment, the index of refraction of the glass plate is 1.52, and each stack of five consists of a 75.3 nm-thick SiOlayer, a 91.7 nm-thick TiOlayer, and a 75.3 nm-thick SiOlayer stacked in the above-mentioned order, where the indices of refraction are 1.46 at 550 nm for SiOand 2.4 at 550 nm for TiO.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b ","b":["43","33","41","21","23","25","27","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","29","31"]},"This embodiment has the same first polarizer , second polarizer , primary lens , an attenuating mask , secondary lens , and imaging device  as described in the above discussed embodiments. In this embodiment, substantial amount of the heat (e.g. infrared light) from the scenes  is transmitted through the cold mirror , while the cold mirror  mostly reflects visible light to the first polarizer , the second polarizer , the primary lens , the attenuating mask , the secondary lens , and the imaging device . This arrangement provides a means of rejecting excess Infrared radiation from the scenes before it enters the optical system and potentially damages the optical components. Alternatively, one could choose a mirror designed to selectively pass or reflect one spectral region into the primary system, while sending unwanted portions of the spectrum (i.e. gamma or x-rays) to a dump.","Preferably, the cold mirror  is made of a glass plate, one of whose surfaces is coated with multiple stacks of layers of thin film. In one embodiment, the index of refraction of the glass plate is 1.52, and four different set of stacks are coated on the glass plate. In a preferred embodiment, the first set of stacks, closest to the glass plate, consists of five stacks of a 34.4 nm-thick TiOlayer, a 113.0 nm-thick SiOlayer, and a 34.4 nm-thick TiOlayer stacked in the above-mentioned order; the second set of stacks consists of five stacks of a 28.6 nm-thick TiOlayer, a 94.2 nm-thick SiOlayer, and a 28.6 nm-thick TiOlayer stacked in the above-mentioned order; the third set of stacks consists of five stacks of a 22.9 nm-thick TiOlayer, a 75.3 nm-thick SiOlayer, and a 22.9 nm-thick TiOlayer stacked in the above-mentioned order; and the last set of stacks consists of a 188.4 nm-thick SiOlayer, where the indices of refraction are 1.46 at 550 nm for SiOand 2.4 at 550 nm for TiO.","Preferably, for imaging welding scenes involving high power illumination on the optics and the imaging device , the hot mirror , the cold mirror  or a combination thereof is positioned between the welding or other high temperature scenes and the first polarizer , thereby reducing the heat load on the first polarizer , the second polarizer , the primary lens , the attenuating mask , the secondary lens , and the imaging device .","Preferably, for imaging scenes  in highly radioactive environments, the cold mirror  is used and a radiation shield  covers the first polarizer , the second polarizer , the primary lens , the attenuating mask , the secondary lens , and the imaging device  from outside radiation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","b ","a "],"b":["27","61","63","61","61"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"b ","b":["65","67","65","65"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a ","b":["33","21","23","25","27","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","29","31","22","21","85","22","81","83","85"]},"Preferably, the first motor and gear set  has a motor and two or more gears which transfer force from the motor to the first rotatable polarizer holder  for the first polarizer . In one embodiment, the motor in the first motor and gear set  is a stepping motor, where the control system  sends pulses to the motor in the first motor and gear set , thereby controlling the rotation of the first polarizer  about the optical axis .","In an alternative embodiment, the motor in the first motor and gear set  is a DC motor, where the control system  sends DC voltages to the motor in the first motor and gear set , thereby controlling the rotation of the first polarizer  about the optical axis . Preferably, in the first motor and gear set , a worm gear is attached to the motor's rod, and the worm gear is meshed with a wheel gear attached to the first rotatable polarizer holder  around the aperture for the first polarizer .","The control system  sends electrical pulses or applies DC voltages to the first motor in the motor and gear set . One embodiment of the control system  has a microcontroller, a central processing unit (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a digital-to-analog converter (DAC), a memory, an input device such as a keyboard, a motor driver, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the control system  receives a keyboard input specifying the direction and the amount of angle by which the first rotatable polarizer holder  will be turned. The CPU in the control system  processes the input data to calculate the number of pulses to give to the stepping motor in the first motor and gear set  or the voltage and time duration to give to the DC motor in the first motor and gear set . The CPU then sends the processed information to the DAC. The DAC converts digital signals into analog voltages to the motor driver, which drives the motor in the first motor and gear set  connected with the control system  via the one or ore wires . The CPU might adjust the angle in response to average brightness signals from the imaging device so as to reduce the number of saturated pixels to a minimum. Alternatively, the angle could be adjusted manually using a joystick or other input device.","One alternative embodiment of the control system  for driving a DC motor is a regulated DC power supply capable of variable voltage output between 0V and 5V. Still another embodiment of the control system  for driving a stepping motor uses a stepping motor controller which preferably drives a stepping motor. In this embodiment, according to the TTL input signals, the stepper motor controller drives the stepping motor in clockwise or counterclockwise direction.","The one or more wires  are one or more electrically conductive conductors which electrically connect the various components in the system. In one embodiment, the one or more wires  are a pair of electrically conductive connectors, which connects the control system  to the motor in the first motor and gear set , where the motor is a DC motor. In another embodiment, the one or more wires  are a bundle of four or more electrically conductive connectors, which connects the control system  to the first motor and gear set , where the motor is a stepping motor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b ","b":["21","91","93","97","99","95","91","93","97","99","81"]},"In this embodiment, light passing through the first linear polarizer  has the first linear polarization . When the variable wave retarder  changes the phase difference between the fast axis  and the slow axis  from zero to a half-wave according to an applied voltage from the control system  connected via the one or more wires , the polarization of the light is further rotated by up to 90\u00b0 as it passes through the variable wave retarder , thereby resulting in the change in the first polarization direction by up to 90\u00b0.","In one embodiment of , the control system  is a regulated DC power supply capable of variable voltage output between 0V and 10V, controllable with a potentiometer and an on\/off switch. Preferably, the control system  is a microcontroller or application-specific integrated circuit capable of (or connected to an integrated circuit having a means for) producing a DC signal.","The one or more wires  are one or more electrically conductive conductors which electrically connect the various components in the system. One embodiment of the one or more wires  is a pair of electrically conductive connectors, which connect the control system  to the VLCR .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["33","21","23","25","101","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","31"]},"Preferably, the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  is a pixelated liquid crystal light valve (LCLV) or a spatial light modulator (SLM). A control system  is connected to the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  via a one or more wires  and to the imaging device . The one or more wires  are one or more electrically conductive conductors. One exemplary embodiment of the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  is a liquid crystal display panel sold by Micron Technology under the trademark Displaytech.","In this embodiment, the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  is positioned at or substantially near the aerial image  of the scenes  focused by the primary lens . The pixel-by-pixel values of light intensity focused onto the imaging device  is sent from the imaging device  to the control system  via one or more wires , where an exemplary embodiment of the one or more wires  is a DVI-D cable.","In one embodiment, the control system  has a microcontroller, a central processing unit (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a digital signal processor (DSP), a digital-to-analog converter (DAC), a memory, or a combination thereof. In another embodiment, the control system  receives light intensity data from the imaging device , processes the light intensity data, and sends controlling signals to the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  via one or more wires , preferably a DVI-I cable.","In a preferable embodiment, the control system  is a DSP sold by Texas Instruments under the model number TMS320DM365-300, programmed with development software provided by the manufacturer, to receive light intensity data from the imaging device  in digital visual interface (DVI) format, where the pixelated data is encoded using a standard 8b\/10b encoding. The DSP then processes the light intensity data by locating the area of saturated pixels by high intensity of light and calculating the amount of attenuation needed for the pixels in the partial area. A DAC in the control system  then converts the calculated attenuation for each pixel and selectively sends attenuating signals to the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  via one or more wires , whereby the transmission of light from the scenes  through each pixel of the dynamically adjusted spatial light modulator  is dynamically controlled to fall within the dynamic range of intensity of the imaging device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["121","33","21","23","25","123","121","123","29","103","81","31","83","121","83","83","123","33","25"]},"The MEMS mirror device  has a plurality of small mirrors, preferably each controlled by a voltage. Each small mirror of the MEMS mirror device  can be adjusted whereby the optical path of light passing through each small mirror can be redirected. Therefore, one or more mirrors can be temporarily moved whereby reflected light does not pass along the optical axis to the imaging device , thereby reducing its intensity. The MEMS mirror device  is preferably a Micromirror, digital micromirror device such as the devices used in DLP video projections, Deformable Mirror Device, or any other light deflection control device. Preferably, each mirror of the MEMS mirror device  has a surface area between about 1 to 10,000 microns.","Although other embodiments having a MEMS mirror device  may be used, this embodiment is preferable as the depth of field of the primary lens  may be rather small (i.e. the image rapidly blurs with distance from the prime focus), and therefore it may be necessary to introduce the reflector . Preferably, the reflector  has a first mirror  and a second mirror . The first mirror  directs the optical path  to the MEMS device  so that the angle of incidence (and of reflection) is nearly perpendicular to the plane of the MEMS device . The second mirror  reflects the MEMS device  reflected beam back onto the original optical path . This embodiment should provide superior resolution of the intensity pattern in the scenes .","The pixel-by-pixel values of light intensity focused onto the imaging device  is sent from the imaging device  to the control system  via one or more wires , where an exemplary embodiment of the one or more wires  is a DVI-D cable. An exemplary embodiment of the MEMS mirror device  is sold by Texas Instruments under the trademark Digital Micromirror Device (DMD), preferably driven by a digital controller sold by Texas Instruments under the model number DDC4000.","The control system  preferably has a microcontroller, a central processing unit (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a digital signal processor (DSP), a digital-to-analog converter (DAC), a memory, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the control system  receives light intensity data from the imaging device , processes the light intensity data, and sends controlling signals to the MEMS mirror device  via the one or more wires , preferably a DVI-I cable.","In a preferred embodiment of the control system , DSP sold by Texas Instruments under the model number TMS320DM365-300 is programmed with a development software provided by the manufacturer to receive light intensity data from the digital output port of the imaging device  in digital visual interface (DVI) format, where the pixelated data is encoded using a standard 8b\/10b encoding. The DSP then processes the light intensity data by locating the area of saturated pixels by high intensity of light and calculating the amount of attenuation needed for the pixels in the partial area. A driver for the MEMS mirror device  (e.g. DDC4000) of the control system  further converts the calculated attenuation for each pixel and selectively sends attenuating signals to the MEMS mirror device  via the one or more wires , whereby the pixels in the MEMS mirror device  periodically reflect part of the excessively bright away from the second mirror  and therefore away from the imaging device .","In an alternate embodiment, other reflective dynamically adjusted spatial light modulators may be used in-place of or in addition to the MEMS mirror device . For example, a Hammamatsu liquid crystal on Silicon spatial light modulators that operate in a reflective mode may be used in place of the MEMS mirror device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["33","21","23","25","27","29","31","35","21","23","25","27","31","22","21","24","23"]},"A first motor and gear set  is attached to the first rotatable polarizer holder . Likewise, a motorized means comprises a second motor and gear set  is attached to the second rotatable polarizer holder . The control system  is electrically connected via one or more wires  to the first motor and gear set  and the second motor and gear set . The one or more wires  are one or more electrically conductive conductors.","Preferably, the attenuating mask  uses a third polarizer to polarize light in a third direction, whereby the attenuation of light by the attenuation mask  is dependent upon the rotational position of the attenuating mask  and the second polarization direction, produced by the second polarizer . In this embodiment, both the first motor and gear set  and the second motor and gear set  are preferably used so that adjustments may be made to the amount of global attenuation performed between the first polarizer  and the second polarizer  and the attenuation of only a partial are of the scenes  between the second polarizer  and the attenuating mask . In the alternative, either one of the first motor and gear set  or the second motor and gear set  may be omitted and the attenuation mask  may be rotated. As the attenuation mask  may have a shape that will change the attenuated area of the scenes  upon rotation, it is preferable to rotate both the first polarizer  and the second polarizer  instead of rotating the attenuating mask .","Therefore, one can globally change light passing to the imaging device  by changing the angle between the first polarization direction (from the first polarizer ) and the second polarization direction (from the second polarizer ). This can be done by rotating either the first polarizer  or the second polarizer . In the alternative, both the first polarizer  and the second polarizer  may be rotated in opposite directions as well.","Additionally, one can attenuate a partial area by changing the angle between the second polarization direction (from the second polarization mask ) and the third polarization direction (from the attenuating mask ). Preferably, a partial area is attenuated using the attenuation mask  (preferably made of a polarizing material) by rotating both the first polarizer  and the second polarizer  in the same direction. By rotating both first polarization direction (from the first polarizer ) and the second polarization direction (from the second polarizer ) in the same direction, the angle between the first polarization direction and the second polarization direction will remain the same and therefore the global attenuation will not be changed. However, the angle between the second polarization direction (from the second polarization mask ) and the third polarization direction (from the attenuating mask ) will be changed thereby changing the amount of attenuation to a partial area of the scene  by the attenuating mask . In the alternative, the attenuating mask  can also be rotated in lieu of or in addition to, however this may alter the shape of the attenuated area of actual attenuating mask , which may or may not be desirable depending on the situation.","Each motor and gear set (the first motor and gear set  and the second motor and gear set ) can be any method of rotating the polarizers, for example as discussed above for the first the first motor and gear set  in ","It is to be understood that the above-described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.","All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.","Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state \u201cmeans for\u201d performing a specified function, or \u201cstep for\u201d performing a specific function, is not to be interpreted as a \u201cmeans\u201d or \u201cstep\u201d clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112, \u00b6 6."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
