---
title: Online meeting systems and methods for handheld machines
abstract: Systems, methods, and apparatuses are described for providing a customized interface to a handheld collaboration machine. Some exemplary methods described include receiving sign-in information from the handheld collaboration machine. The sign-in information may correspond to an unmodified online meeting environment comprising a plurality of components. One or more customization factors of the handheld collaboration machine may be identified. The unmodified online meeting environment may be modified by removing at least one component of the plurality of components based on the customization features to generate the modified online meeting environment. The modified online meeting environment is then provided to the handheld collaboration machine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08589806&OS=08589806&RS=08589806
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08589806
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090828
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["In an online meeting environment, participants (i.e., users of the meeting environment) may interact using a variety of components, such as a video feed from a web camera, a whiteboard, a chat room, a document reader, a list of participants, a shared notepad, a form-filling tool, file-sharing tools, as well as audio input from each participant. The components actually used in any given meeting may be determined by the user who organized the meeting. An example of an online meeting environment is provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/864,631 filed Sep. 28, 2007 and entitled, \u201cDeclarative Specification of Collaboration Client Functionality.\u201d","Participants in an online meeting may use multiple components of an online meeting environment to express thoughts and ideas. In addition to voice and video data, the components may communicate visual data including, but not limited to, chat room conversations, shared notes, screenshots, document or slideshow viewers, whiteboards, and the like. Further, other resources associated with the meeting, such as a list of participants, downloadable documents, and\/or forms, may also be made available to the participants via the components. The processing, memory, and display space required to support each component may require that the participants each participate using a non-handheld machine such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer.","To allow participants to join an online meeting using a handheld mobile machine, such as a smart phone, the online meeting environment may be modified to use, for example, less bandwidth, less memory, less processing power, and\/or less components. The online meeting environment is typically modified by a central server in response to a communication from a handheld machine of a participant. The communication may include a mode selection, an inventory of requested components, and\/or data collected from the handheld machine such as a geographic location.","The modified online meeting environment may include fewer components or more components than the online meeting environment accessed by users of non-handheld machines. Some components may be replaced by modified versions of the component to accommodate lower bandwidths or other factors. In some instances, some features may not be available at the handheld machines that are otherwise available when accessing the online meeting environment via a non-handheld machine.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100"]},"In the online meeting architecture , a collaboration server  is communicatively coupled to a first handheld collaboration machine A, a second handheld collaboration machine B, and a non-handheld collaboration machine  via a network . The network  may comprise a private network or a public network, this such as the Internet. In some instances, the network  may additionally include the public switched telephone network (PSTN) or a cellular network (e.g., CDMA, GSM, etc.) to communicate voice signals.","The collaboration server  operatively controls communications between participants in an online meeting environment. The collaboration server  provides a graphical user interface (GUI) to each of the (handheld and non-handheld) collaboration machines  and  associated with an online meeting. During the online meeting, the collaboration server  updates the online meeting environment based on communications received from each of the collaboration machines  and . The collaboration server  may coordinate multiple simultaneous online meeting environments each associated with a distinct set of collaboration machines.","The handheld collaboration machines A and B comprise handheld devices that are used by meeting participants to access the online meeting environment. The respective handheld collaboration machines A and B may have different features and\/or be able to access different sets of online meeting components. The collaboration server  may provide a modified or customized version of the online meeting environment to each of that the handheld collaboration machines A and B based on one or more hardware, software, or networking specifications of the respective machines.","The handheld collaboration machine A host a browser  to present content to the user accessed via the network . The browser  comprises a handheld browser (e.g., a mini browser) that resides on the handheld collaboration machine A. One example of a handheld browser is the INTERNET EXPLORER MOBILE\u00ae browser developed by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond, Wash. The meeting participant, using the handheld collaboration machine A, may navigate to a designated network location (e.g., website) using the browser . At least a portion of the content within the online meeting environment may be presented to the participant via the browser . In alternate embodiments, the handheld collaboration machine may host a dedicated client application for accessing the online meeting environment.","The handheld collaboration machine B, in example embodiment, is shown to host a dedicated online meeting mobile application . The mobile application  is a software application that is directed to participation in the online meeting environment. The mobile application  may be provided based on the specific capabilities of the handheld collaboration machine B. In some instances, the mobile application  may comprise a widget or plug-in application accessed via a browser such as browser . The mobile application  may, for example, be authored using JavaScript\u00ae scripting language licensed by Sun Microsystems of Santa Clara, Calif., Ajax web development techniques, ADOBE\u00ae FLASH\u00ae multimedia web platform by Adobe Microsystems, Inc. of San Jose, Calif., ADOBE\u00ae FLEX\u00ae software development kit by Adobe Microsystems, Inc. of San Jose, Calif., and may execute within the Adobe\u00ae Integrated Runtime (AIR\u2122) cross-platform environment by Adobe Microsystems, Inc. of San Jose, Calif.","The non-handheld collaboration machine  is a non-handheld computing device such as a laptop computer or a desktop computer. In some instances, the non-handheld collaboration machine  may be communicatively coupled to a telephone or may otherwise provide telephony capabilities (e.g., by hosting a voice over IP (VoIP) application that facilitates telephonic communications over a broadband Internet connection). Alternatively, a user may participate in the online meeting environment using a telephone. In other instances, the non-handheld collaboration machine  may include a microphone and a speaker. The non-handheld collaboration machine  may host a browser and\/or an online meeting application. The online meeting application, which may run within the context of a browser or as an independent application, may itself provide telephony capabilities (e.g., VoIP functionality) to enable telephonic participation by users within an online meeting. The non-handheld collaboration machine  may be able to access and display a full complement of components of the online meeting environment. Certain non-handheld machines may have restrictions or capability limitations that may prevent, or it least make it undesirable to, display a full set of components of an online meeting environment on a display device of such a non-handheld machine. For such non-handheld machines, the example methods discussed below may be applied to modify or customized to the online meeting environment based on the restrictions or limitations of non-handheld machine. It should also be s noted that the online meeting architecture  need not include the non-handheld collaboration machine  to perform the described embodiments.","Referring to , a block diagram of an example of a collaboration server  according to various embodiments is shown. The collaboration server  comprises one or more modules in electronic communication with one another for implementing an online meeting environment . The collaboration server  comprises a component selector , a authorization module , a customization module , an alternative components module , and a communication module .","The component selector  may be accessed by a meeting organizer (not shown) to instantiate an online meeting in the online meeting environment . To instantiate the online meeting, the meeting organizer may access the component selector  using a collaboration machine (e.g., handheld collaboration machines A and B, or non-handheld collaboration machine ) by signing in to the online meeting environment using, for example, a username and password combination. The component selector  may generate and\/or transmit a graphical user interface (GUI) to the collaboration machine. Using the collaboration machine, the meeting organizer may select one or more components to be included in the online meeting. In some instances, the meeting organizer is able to provide participant information, and a date and time of the online meeting via the component selector .","During an online meeting, the collaboration machines , A and B may, for each component associated with an online meeting, access one or more sub-components (not shown). Sub-components may include, for example, a user interface sub-component and other subcomponents to analyze data associated with the component to modify the user interface in response to an action by a meeting participant. For example, a text chat component may comprise one or more sub-components that receive a chat \u201cmessage\u201d and cause the sender, time and text to be display on a user interface. Another sub-component may provide the ability to display notifications when an event occurs on a specific component. (e.g., if a new chat message arrives and the chat component is not currently visible, a notification like a sound, popup or highlighted button will make the user aware of the new chat message). Examples of components include, but are not limited to, playback of audio recordings, substantially real-time audio transmission, audio reception, audio recording, document viewer, document editor, form-filler, image previewer, image editor, whiteboard, text chat, file downloading, video viewer, video editor, participant list, timer, etc. The embodiments disclosed herein are not limited by way of the components actually available in a specific online meeting environment  or that are provided by the collaboration server .","The collaboration server  may send the meeting information to the participants who may, in turn, join the online meeting via the collaboration machines at the specified date and time. The online meeting may be initiated when one or more participants sign-in to the online meeting via the authorization module . The authorization module  may provide a sign-in GUI for handheld collaboration machines that is distinct from a sign-in GUI for non-handheld collaboration machines in response to an indication that a handheld machine is being used. For example, the sign-in GUI for a handheld machine may use less bandwidth, have a text input interface that does not require a full keyboard, and\/or require less display area. For example, the mobile application  may send a unique device identification code (like phone number and\/or phone-unique I.D.) that the collaboration server will use to identify the owner.","Upon receiving sign-in information from a handheld collaboration machine, the customization module  communicates with the handheld collaboration machine to customize the online meeting. The customization of the online meeting may include removing, adding, or substituting components.","In some embodiments, the customization is based on one or more customization factors. The term, \u201ccustomization factors\u201d as used herein, is intended to broadly encompass data communicated between the collaboration server and the collaboration machine for providing one or more user interfaces of the online meeting. While customization factors are typically communicated where the collaboration machine is a handheld machine, the customization factors (or a portion thereof) may also be communicated where the collaboration machine is not a handheld machine. Notably, the customization factors are distinct from changes to the user interfaces caused by the communications between participants during the online meeting. The customization factors may be communicated before, during, or subsequent to the online meeting. Customization factors may indicate the hardware, software, and\/or networking capabilities of the handheld machine. Some customization factors are based on one or more user-specific attributes such as preferences, default settings, location, etc. In some instances, at least a portion of the customization factors are provided in response to a communication from the collaboration server indicating one or more components or characteristics of the components included within the online meeting. In these instances, the customization factors may or may not include a mode indicator that provides customization data based on a predetermined mode. Customization factors, such as mode information, may be communicated as part of a sign-in process, based on, for example, a selected username (e.g., \u201cJohn_Smith_Handheld\u201d vs. \u201cJohn_Smith_Office\u201d) or a dial-in number used by the user to access the online meeting. Examples of customization factors include, but are not limited to, available bandwidth, roaming status, available software applications, geographic location, processing power, screen size, camera, time zone, etc.","To remove a component, the customization module  determines that the component cannot or may not process the component correctly. For example, a whiteboard component may require the FLASH\u00ae player distributed by Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose, Calif. Some handheld collaboration machines may not support the player. For these handheld machines, the whiteboard component may be removed from the online meeting for the handheld machine. It is noted that the whiteboard component (or any other component using the FLASH\u00ae player) is still part of the online meeting and that other participants are able to interact using the whiteboard via other handheld collaboration machines and\/or non-handheld collaboration machines.","In some instances, a component may be added to the presentation of the online meeting. The added component may or may not be added to replace one or more functionalities of a removed component. For example, a component for displaying a list of participants may be provided to the handheld collaboration machine that might not otherwise be included in the online meeting as it is presented to other users. The list of participants may, in some instances, be added to replace a web camera display of the other participant in the online meeting. The additional component may be selected based on various customization factors such as geographical location, time zone, or the like.","In some instances, a component is modified by the customization module  based on one or more customization factors specific to the collaboration machine. Examples of customization factor include, but are not limited to, bandwidth, available memory, display size, geographic location, and software installed on the collaboration machine. Alternatively or additionally, a dial-in number or a network address to access the online meeting (e.g., an international dial-in number) may be changed.","The alternative component module  may receive a request for an alternative component from the customization module . The request may include one or more customization factors. The alternative components module  may also interrogate the customization module  and\/or from the handheld collaboration machine for at least a portion of the customization factors. Based on the customization factors, the alternative components module  may select an existing alternative component and\/or may generate a new alternative component. In some instances, the generation of a new alternative component may comprise modification of an existing alternative component based on the customization factors.","A video feed to be received or transmit by the handheld machine may be replaced by one or more still images. Where more bandwidth is available, a video feed may be down sampled, instead of replaced with still images. For online meeting using components having interactive or non-interactive visuals, the visuals may be reformatted as one or more still images in a less bandwidth-expensive format such as JPEG, MPEG, or the like. In some instances, the images are down sampled or cropped to, among other things, display properly on a smaller display. These visuals may be generated using components such as a whiteboard, form-filler, document editor, and\/or a document or slideshow viewer. For online meetings including a text chat component, a short message service (SMS) may be used to receive or transmit messages.","The alternative components module  may determine the alternative components based on heuristics, tables, or artificial intelligence engines (e.g., neural networks). The alternative components module  may provide the alternative components, or access to the alternative components, to the customization module .","The communication module  coordinates communication in the online meeting environment . The communication module  may receive input from each collaboration machine in an online meeting environment that is signed-in to an online meeting. The communication module  may route the components of the online meeting to each collaboration machine and\/or to a subset of the collaboration machines. During an online meeting, the communication module  may communicate changes to each of the components made by the participants between the collaboration machines.","Referring now to , a flow diagram of example data communicated between a collaboration server  and a handheld collaboration machine  is provided.","Upon signing-in to an online meeting, the collaboration server  may send an initial inventory  of the components selected by the meeting organizer for the online meeting. The initial inventory may be sent to both handheld collaboration machines and to non-handheld collaboration machines. The initial inventory may or may not include one or more base components that are required to participate in the online meeting regardless of the capabilities of the collaboration machine. The collaboration server  may additionally or alternately communicate to the collaboration machines which alternative components are available for the online meeting.","When the initial inventory is received, the handheld collaboration machine  may identify, select, and\/or determine one or more customization factors . The customization factors may be specific to the hardware, software, and\/or networking capabilities of the handheld collaboration machine. Some of the customization factors  may be provided by the user of the handheld collaboration machine. Non-limiting examples of customization factors  shown in  include mode definitions, bandwidth, roaming status, permissions, user preferences, location, and sensor data.","Mode definitions describe modes of operation of the handheld collaboration machine during an online meeting. The mode definitions may include pre-existing instructions for customization module  and\/or the alternative components module . The mode definitions may be provided in part by the user via, for example, a GUI for receiving the mode definitions. In some instances, the handheld collaboration machine includes more than one mode definition. In these instances, the mode definition actually implemented by the handheld collaboration machine  are determined based on conditions that affect the ability of the handheld machine to communicate with the collaboration server  such as bandwidth availability, roaming status, and the like. The mode definitions may alternatively or additionally be provided by the collaboration server .","Based on the customization factors , the handheld collaboration machine  communicates one or more capabilities  back to the collaboration server . In some instances, the handheld collaboration machine  may provide its capabilities to the collaboration server  without first receiving an initial inventory . The capabilities  may comprise a mode indicator, a desired inventory of components, and\/or one or more customization factors. The mode indicator may indicate that the handheld collaboration machine is operating, or will operate, in a specific mode. The collaboration server  may access one or more mode definitions to customize the components in the online meeting environment. The desired inventory may include a portion of the initial inventory of components that the handheld collaboration machine operates. The desired inventory may or may not include alternative components or replacement components.","In response to receiving the capabilities , the collaboration server  is configured to contribute to the customization of the interface  of the online meeting for the handheld collaboration machine. A portion of the customization of the interface may alternatively or additionally be performed by the handheld collaboration machine. The customized interface  may be generated by selecting components using the customization module  and\/or the alternative component module . Communications received during the online meeting from other participants may be modified by the alternative components and\/or the replacement components prior to transmission to the handheld collaboration machine. If no capabilities  are received by the collaboration serve , the collaboration server  may assume that the collaboration machine is a non-handheld collaboration machine and provide all of the components included in the initial inventory having been selected for the online meeting by the meeting organizer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","104","112","104"]},"In an operation , a selection of one or more components is received from a meeting organizer. The meeting organizer may select the components using a handheld collaboration machine  (i.e., handheld collaboration machines A and B) and\/or a non-handheld collaboration machine . The selection of components may be made independently of the collaboration machine(s) to be used by the participants to access the online meeting.","In an operation , sign-in information is provided to one or more invited users of the online meeting. The sign-in information may include a date and time of the online meeting, a meeting identifier, a user identifier, etc. The sign-in information may or may not include the component selection or capability requirements such as hardware requirements, software requirements and\/or bandwidth requirements.","In an operation , at least one invited user may provide sign-on information to the collaboration server  using the handheld collaboration machine . In response, the collaboration server  sends an initial inventory of selected components. The initial inventory may be accompanied by further component metadata data such as anticipated bandwidth use, hardware and software requirements, display requirements, etc. The initial inventory may or may not be identical to the components selected by the meeting organizer.","In some instances, the sign-on information may indicate that a handheld collaboration machine is used and the collaboration server  may modify the selected components to generate an initial inventory separate from the components selected by the meeting organizer. The collaboration machine can send a set of capabilities to the server, like screen dimensions, type of controls (touch-screen, keys\/keyboard, trackball, etc.), network connection (wireless, 3G, 2G, etc.), audio\/video support, etc. In handheld collaboration machines , a FlashPlayer application may include a set of application programming interfaces (APIs) to retrieve these capabilities. On other handheld collaboration machine (e.g., handheld collaboration machine B), these capabilities can be hardcoded in the mobile application . A different implementation may send an application identifier such as a version number of an installed FlashPlayer or a version number of a mini browser to the collaboration server . In this implementation, the server may access a table that maps the application identifier to the capabilities or supported components of the handheld collaboration device.","In an operation , the handheld collaboration machine  may select one or more components from the initial inventory. The components may be selected as described above based on one or more customization factors. In embodiments where the handheld collaboration machine  has access to data about available alternative components, the handheld collaboration machine  may determine whether to request alternative components, in an operation .","The handheld collaboration machine  sends a desired inventory in an operation . The desired inventory may include a selection of a portion of the selected components and\/or one or more alternative components. Alternatively or additionally, the handheld collaboration machine  provides the customization factors to the collaboration server .","In an operation , the collaboration server , and more specifically, the customization module , customizes the meeting interface based on data received via the communications from the handheld collaboration machine . The customized meeting interface is then provided in operation . The customized interface is provided to the handheld collaboration machine . Other participants in the online meeting may simultaneously be provided with an interface provided based solely on the selected components. Further, other handheld collaboration machines  may be provided other customized interfaces generated separately from the interface provided in operation .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","104","110","104"]},"Similar to approach , sign-in information is provided to a participant in an operation , and the participant signs-in to the meeting in an operation . The collaboration server  sends the initial inventory in operation .","At an operation , in response to the initial inventory, the mobile collaboration machine  may determine a mode. The mode may be based at least in part on the components in the initial inventory and the customization factors of the mobile collaboration machine . Once the mode is determined, the mobile collaboration machine  may send a mode indicator to the collaboration server  in operation .","Upon receipt of the mode indicator, the collaboration server  provides a customized meeting interface in operation . The collaboration server  may access a table or other data structure that defines the mode corresponding to the mode indicator. The definition of the mode may include a portion of components selectable by the meeting organizer, one or more alternative components, and\/or hardware, software, or networking specifications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","604","606","608","610"]},"Reviewing each example component in turn, some may be selected while others may be alternative components. The document viewer , for example, may be a selected component by the meeting organizer or may be an alternative component added to replace another, more expensive, component such as a document editor. The participant list  may include a listing of the other participants in the meeting and may or may not include images of the other participants. In some instances, the participant list  may be used as a replacement list for another component, such as a web camera. The chat component  may be used by a participant to exchange messages with other participants without interrupting a speaker. The whiteboard  may comprise an interactive display where each participant may \u201cdraw\u201d on a single image. The notes component, as shown, may be used to show an online meeting agenda and may or may not be modifiable by a participant. Some components, such as the whiteboard  may be the same as components available to the participants on the non-handheld collaboration machines . The components, as shown, are displayed one at a time. The user of the handheld collaboration machine  may determine which component to display during the online meeting. However, other participants or GUIs may display more than one component or all available components at a single time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","600","104","700","600","702","704","606","706","610"]},"The documents editor may be included in the user interface  but not in the user interface  based on one or more of the customization factors. The screen share  may be an alternative component for another component, such as the whiteboard . The web camera  may be included instead of a participant list .","In the example interfaces as shown, a display associated with a single component comprises a significant portion of the display. If, for example, another participant in the online meeting performs an action using a component other than the one currently displayed, the user of the handheld collaboration device may be notified by a sound or by a change in the display. The change in display may include a visual indicator such as a pop-up window or a change or addition to an icon representing the component where the action was performed.","In some instances, the display may automatically switch to another component when the action is performed. In instances where other participants are performing actions using more than one component at a time, e.g., if a portion of the participants leave the online meeting (causing a change in a participant list) and another portion continues to act in a whiteboard module, the handheld collaboration machine and\/or the collaboration server may actively determine which component to show. For example, the whiteboard may be shown instead of the participant list if the user of the handheld collaboration device is also performing actions using the whiteboard. If, however, the user of the handheld collaboration device is a moderator of to online meeting, the participant list may be displayed instead. The determination may be made based on, for example, a most recent activity, a time-out period, a set of heuristics, a priority ranking of the components, or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","104","800","800","802","804","804","800","806","808","810","800","810"]},"In some instances, the systems and operations described herein in connection with handheld collaboration devices may be implemented using a non-handheld device such as, but not limited to any of various types of devices, including, a personal computer system, desktop computer, laptop, notebook, or netbook computer, mainframe computer system, workstation, network computer, application server, storage device, a consumer electronics device such as a set top box, video game console, a peripheral device such as a switch, modem, router, or in general any type of computing or electronic device.","Certain example embodiments may facilitate presenting online meeting environments on a handheld device. The presentation may be modified from an online meeting environment that is typically accessed using a larger, non-handheld device to allow participants who do not have immediate access to the non-handheld device to access the online meeting environment using a handheld device.","In the foregoing detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural, logical, and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter.","The foregoing description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limited sense, and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.","The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware, software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further, described functions may correspond to modules and\/or engines, which may include software, hardware, firmware, or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules and\/or engines as desired, and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor, ASIC, microprocessor, or other type of processor operating on a system, such as a personal computer, server, a router, or other device capable of processing data in the network interconnection devices.","Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware-implemented (e.g., processor-implemented) modules, engines, or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or engines, or as portions of an application-specific integrated circuit. Thus, the exemplary process flows are applicable to software, firmware, and hardware implementations.","Embodiments may, for example, be implemented as a stand-alone application (e.g., without any network capabilities), a client-server application or a peer-to-peer (or distributed) application. Embodiments may also, for example, be deployed by Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Application Service Provider (ASP), or utility computing providers, in addition to being sold or licensed via traditional channels.","It is emphasized that the abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. \u00a71.72 (b) requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret the scope or meaning of the claims.","In the foregoing Detailed Description, various features are together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus, the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.","In the above Detailed Description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, methods, apparatuses, or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter. Some portions of the detailed description which follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals stored within a computing system memory, such as a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions or representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, is considered to be a self-consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context, operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically, although not necessarily, such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to such signals as bits, data, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, numerals or the like. It should be understood, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as \u201cprocessing,\u201d \u201ccomputing,\u201d \u201ccalculating,\u201d \u201cdetermining\u201d or the like, refer to actions or processes of a computing platform, such as a computer or a similar electronic computing device, that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories, registers, or other information storage devices, transmission devices, or display devices of the computing platform.","It will be readily understood by those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details, material, and arrangements of the present method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to a explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0003","num":"0002"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
