---
title: Method and system for storing and presenting program messages
abstract: An approach is provided for a messaging interface between applications and a user. A plurality of messages associated respectively with a plurality of programs is stored in a common message database according to timing information corresponding to the messages. A subset of the messages is retrieved based on the timing information. The subset of messages is filtered based on message type. The filtered messages are output to a non-visual communication program for presentation of the filtered messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738712&OS=08738712&RS=08738712
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08738712
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091231
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The advent of the World Wide Web and advances in technology have served as a catalyst for the ubiquity of computing devices, as well as the introduction of increasingly more complex applications and services. For example, such services may utilize complex, multimodal interfaces to input and output information. Moreover, these computing devices continue to gain ever increasing processing capability such that multitasking is now commonplace. Consequently, a host of applications and associated interfaces are activated concurrently. Because of the multiplicity of applications, the users can easily be inundated with messages from these applications, thereby potentially reducing the user's productivity or efficiency with respect to utilizing the applications. Thus, management of these messages, which may be voluminous, poses a challenge for traditional operating systems.","The above issue is exacerbated in the case of users with vision impairment; such users may typically rely on a screen reader to convey the information provided by the many applications. Unfortunately, the lack of management of the messages from these applications can easily render the output of the screen reader incoherent or incomprehensible.","Therefore, there is a need for an approach that can effectively manage application messages for coherent presentation to users.","A preferred apparatus, method, and software for providing a messaging interface are disclosed. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent, however, that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.","Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to interfacing with vision impaired individuals, it is contemplated that various exemplary embodiments are applicable to other use cases.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Software for providing interfaces to users with visual impairments may include, for example, screen-readers. In certain embodiments, a screen-reader is a software and\/or hardware application that may identify and interpret what is displayed on a screen (e.g., via a standard output). Then, the screen-reader can present the display via another mode of communication (e.g., a text-to-speech engine, sound icons, a Braille output device, etc.). The use of screen-readers to present information on computing devices to users generates compatibility issues between applications and output via the screen-reader.","Therefore, the approach of utilizing a messaging interface organize information stemming from programs of the computer system  is provided. As shown, computing hardware (e.g., computer system)  includes a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor  coupled to the bus  for processing information. The computer system  also includes main memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to the bus  for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor .","Messages associated with applications and other software (e.g., the operating system, drivers, etc.) may be stored in a message aggregation database . In certain embodiments, messages are system communication, events, program (e.g., application, operating system, process, etc.) outputs, program communications, etc. that are monitored by a messaging system and\/or framework and are output to the message aggregation database . Although various embodiments are described with respect to applications, it is contemplated that the approaches described herein may be used with other programs (e.g., other processes, the operating system, drivers, etc.).","Main memory  can also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processor . The computer system  may further include a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, is coupled to the bus  for persistently storing information and instructions. The computing system  is any type of fixed terminal, mobile terminal, or portable terminal including a desktop computer, laptop computer, Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), communicator, internet node, device, mobile device, or any combination thereof.","The computer system  may be coupled via the bus  to an output , such as a display (e.g., cathode ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display, active matrix display, or plasma display, for displaying information to a computer user), an audio output, a Braille output, etc. In certain embodiments, the audio output may be implemented using an amplifier and a speaker. Moreover, the Braille output may be implemented via a refreshable Braille display or Braille terminal. A refreshable Braille display may include electro-mechanical devices that include means for raising dots through holes of a flat surface to allow for Braille characters to be recognized. In certain embodiments, the audio output may receive instructions from a text-to-speech engine, while the Braille terminal may receive output instructions a Braille output engine. An input device , such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys, for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor  and for controlling cursor movement on the display of the output .","The messaging interface  may be utilized to present textual messages of an application to the user and\/or to provide input from a user to the application. As such, in certain embodiments, the output , the input device , and the cursor control  may communicate with the bus via the messaging interface . In other embodiments, the output , the input device , and the cursor control  may be directly coupled to the bus .","As noted above, in certain embodiments, the message aggregation database  may be utilized to collect messages from programs, e.g., applications, operating systems, and other software, executing on the processor . These messages may be formatted and stored in the message aggregation database . These messages may be generated and sorted as further detailed in the description of . Examples of messages include e-mails, web page information, log file information, screen scraper output, alerts to the operating system, input information, or the like.","According to one embodiment, the messages may be formatted into a screen-reader compatible format that may be utilized for outputting to a non-visual output (e.g., an audio output, a Braille output, etc.). In other words, the messages may be formatted in a standard format that may be output in a non-visual manner. In certain embodiments, all messages are formatted to be screen-reader compatible. Further, the message aggregation database  may be utilized to output messages to a messaging user interface  to allow the user to navigate and communicate with applications using messages. The messaging user interface , detailed further in , may additionally be utilized as a simple navigation interface that can be effortlessly sorted and presented to the user. Thus, the messaging user interface  may be utilized to navigate and utilize programs. Further, messages may be viewed by the user using a message scrolling user interface. As such, the user may be alerted to new messages using push technology, where the messaging system provides a notification to the user when a new message meeting the user's criteria is available. By way of example, the criteria may include certain types of messages, messages associated with a particular application, importance of messages, etc.","Under certain scenarios, the messaging user interface  may be presented to the user as a home screen navigation menu system. As such, the messaging user interface  may be viewed as a message explorer used to navigate the functionality of applications and operating system functions. Moreover, the message explorer may be utilized to present a view of the messages stored in the message aggregation database . Additionally or alternatively, the message explorer may include a universal notification window that provides the user with all of the messages available in the message aggregation database . Some or all of the messages may be restricted by size (e.g., only a certain amount of messages of a particular type, such as system input\/output notification messages, may be stored at a time). The message explorer may thus provide access to a log of the messages and\/or other operating system or application data.","According to one embodiment, the processes described herein are performed by the computer system , in response to the processor  executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory  causes the processor  to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement certain embodiments. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network. For example, the communication interface  may be a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or modem, an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, a cable modem, a telephone modem, or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card (e.g. for Ethernet\u2122 or an Asynchronous Transfer Model (ATM) network) to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further, the communication interface  can include peripheral interface devices, such as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, a PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) interface, etc. Although a single communication interface  is depicted in , multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.","The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer, which has connectivity to a network (e.g. a wide area network (WAN) or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d) or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface , which communicate digital data with the computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.","The computer system  can send message data and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), the network link, and the communication interface . In the Internet example, a server (not shown) might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing certain embodiments through the network, the local network and the communication interface . The processor  may execute the transmitted code while being received and\/or store the code in the storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, the computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to computer-readable storage media ((or non-transitory media)\u2014i.e., non-volatile media and volatile media), and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic, optical, or electromagnetic waves, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer-readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example, the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario, the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA) or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory, from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.","The processes described herein for providing a messaging interface between applications and users may be implemented via software, hardware (e.g., general processor, Digital Signal Processing (DSP) chip, an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), etc.), firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","201","203","205","207","209","205","100","203","209","205","207","201","207","209","209","203","205","203","205","209","203","205","201"]},"As previously noted, the message aggregation database  is populated using the operating system kernel  and\/or other programs  (e.g., applications) using the processes detailed in . In certain embodiments, a screen-reader application  is a non-visual communication program that is utilized to convert application messages (e.g., an application output) into a format (e.g., textual messages) that may be interpreted and presented by a non-visual output device (e.g., a text-to-speech output device or a Braille output device). Additionally, in some embodiments, a screen-reader compatible output is an output device that may interpret textual information into a sense (e.g., a touch, a sound, etc.) that may be utilized to communicate the textual information. As such, the content of messages stored in the message aggregation database  may be utilized to provide input to the screen-reader  for outputting information to a user. Messages stored in the message aggregation database  can be associated with applications using a message application identifier  (e.g., a name) and\/or a message application source identifier. A message application source identifier may be a memory address identifying the location of the program  that may be updated or changed by the operating system kernel . Further, messages stored in the message aggregation database  may be associated with a message type . The message type  may include a message type identifier and\/or a message type name. Moreover, the message type name may include a descriptive message type (e.g., an application output message to be output to a user, an identifier message identifying a program , a status message updating the status of the computer system , etc.). Further, the messages may be associated with a message identifier  and\/or a payload . In certain embodiments, the message identifier  is descriptive of the payload  (e.g., a summary). In other embodiments, the message identifier  may include a unique identifier used to uniquely specify the message. Moreover, the message identifier  may be both descriptive and unique (e.g., include a descriptive identifier as well as a unique identifier such as a time stamp). Further, the message may be associated with timing information (not shown) that may be utilized to filter and\/or sort messages.","In certain embodiments, the message type identifier includes an identifier that is utilized in sorting the messages in the message aggregation database . For example, a message type identifier can be associated with one or more levels of messages. A level may be utilized to identify the frequency of update of the message type and\/or importance of the message (e.g., via a priority level). By way of example, the messaging system  may be utilized to configure the levels of messages stored in the message aggregation database  using parameters. For example, the level of a particular message can be provide that the message is less important if the message type of the message is a message type that is frequently updated (e.g., the message is associated with a continuous stream of information that is not outputted). In another example, the level of another message may indicate a higher priority because the other message is meant to be presented to the user. Thus, the message aggregation database  may be sorted using priority levels. In certain scenarios, the message priority level of messages may be utilized to filter out lower priority messages. By way of example, the messaging system  may include, for example, multiple levels (e.g., 20) that may be associated with messages in the message aggregation database . The messaging system  can be configured to filter out all messages other than levels 1, 2, 3, and 5 from being displayed to the user. Further, the remaining messages may be sorted based on additional parameters (e.g., date of the message).","Moreover, the messaging system  may configure the presentation of the message aggregation database  and output information contained within the message aggregation database  via the messaging UI  as further detailed in the processes of  and user interfaces in . As such, the messaging UI  may be utilized to present menus of messages associated with programs . The messages may be formatted so that functions and sub-functions are broken up into menus of a limited number of menu items (e.g., 3-5 menu items, 5-7 menu items, etc.) for interaction with a program . In this manner, the menus may be quickly provided to the user for input selecting the functions and\/or sub-functions. Moreover, the menus and\/or menu navigation may additionally include next, back, and\/or previous navigation options. In certain embodiments, these navigation options are forced on all applications running on the operating system kernel . Further, the messaging UI  may additionally force an associated application to disable backgrounds, font size customization, and haptic feedback control. In this manner, the computer system  may be more suited for visually impaired individuals. Additionally or alternatively, the messaging UI  may be sorted based on parameters (e.g., based on a most recent date\/time, another database column, etc.). Moreover, the messaging UI  can be presented to the user via a screen-reader compatible output.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIGS. 3 and 4"],"b":["209","100","103","105","221","209","207","207","100","207"]},"Then, at step , the messaging system  retrieves a subset of the messages based, at least in part, on the timing information. As noted, the timing information may be utilized to determine which messages are most recent and consequently least stale. Further, the timing information may be utilized to select a group of messages. This may be reflected in selecting a group of messages surrounding a particular message. In other scenarios, the timing information may be utilized to retrieve older messages. This subset may be utilized as a working copy of the message aggregation database . Further, in certain scenarios, the subset may include a pointer to the location of payload information in the message aggregation database  to save memory space and increase processing efficiency.","The messaging system  filters the subset of messages based on the message type (step ). As previously noted, the message type may be associated with priority levels and\/or be used to select which messages can be eligible candidates for presentation. One or more message types can be selected as candidates for presentation and\/or one or more message types may be selected to be filtered out of possible candidates for presentation. Thus, the subset of messages may be filtered based on message type and timing information rules. Then, the filtered message subset is sorted (step ). Further, the sorting may be executed according to sorting criteria. The sorting criteria may include sorting the filtered messages via one of the associated fields associated with the messages. The messaging system  may receive input from a selectable user interface to receive input to select sorting criteria. In one example, the application identifier field may be utilized to sort the messages. In this example, a user may utilize selection menu of the selectable user interface to sort messages so that messages for a particular application may be presented. Selectable user interfaces are further detailed in description of .","Next, at step , the messaging system  outputs filtered messages to a non-visual communication program for presentation of the filtered messages. The non-visual communication program may include a screen-reader  and generate data that can be transmitted via an output signal to output . As previously noted, the output  may include an auditory system or a touch-based system to communicate the payload  of messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["209","100","103","301","209","205","209","209"]},"Once the messaging system  receives the application message, the messaging system  associates the application message with an application hook (step ). The application hook may associate the application with the message and handle the message in a manner provided by the application hook. The manner provided by the application hook may depend on configuration parameters associated with the application. For example, the application hook associated with an e-mail message or other messaging system message may include different information than the application message associated with the content of a web browser or other application (e.g., an application with a GUI or an application with output to a log file). In certain embodiments, the application hooks may be associated with a software framework associated with the application. In this manner, applications created using the framework will be known to be compatible with the messaging system and application hooks. Then, at step , the messaging system  formats the application message into a textual message based on the application hook as further detailed in the processes of . In certain embodiments, the textual message is a message that can be interpreted by a screen-reader compatible output device.","Next, at step , the application hook is used to determine a message level and\/or message type for the textual message. The message type can be provided in the application message. Examples of message types include an e-mail message, a text message (e.g., Short Message Service (SMS), Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS)), a message containing textual web browser information, a message containing updated GUI information, a message containing internal system alerts (e.g., an alert associated with the hook or an alert associated with other events), internal system log and\/or error update messages, etc. For example, messages associated with new content information may be associated with a higher priority level than a message associated with an internal system log update or other information that is frequently updated and\/or may not be useful to the user. Thus, the message types may be associated with message priority levels. These message priority levels may be utilized to filter content to be displayed to a user via a menu system as further detailed in , , , and . For example, a user may configure the messaging system  to only display and\/or alert the user to messages associated with certain priority levels and\/or message types.","Further, the messaging system  may be utilized to store the formatted message and associated message type in the message aggregation database  (step ). In certain embodiments, the message aggregation database  may store a message identifier, a message application identifier, a message type identifier and\/or message priority level, message payload  (e.g., text), timing information (e.g., a timestamp, a date added, etc.), or a combination thereof associated with each message. Further, the message information may be customized based on the message type. Moreover, the application message may be determined to have emphasis (e.g., bold, quotes, underline, italics, etc.) based on textual information in the payload  that may be stored in the message aggregation database . The textual information may include one or more tags that may be utilized to produce the emphasis on a screen-reader. Moreover, an application message that is associated with web content may include HyperText Markup Language (HTML) text with emphasis information that may be utilized by an output (e.g., a text-to-speech mechanism, a Braille output device, display, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["209","100","103","401","209","205","209","209"]},"Then, at step , the messaging system  processes the display information message to determine a payload  (e.g., textual information) associated with the display information message. The display information message may be processed using various rules that may be based on the type of message and\/or an application hook associated with the message. Then, at step , the textual information is formatted into a message that can be stored in the message aggregation database .","In one embodiment, the display information message is associated with an electronic message or mail. The payload  may be directly extracted from the electronic message or mail. Further, fields associated with the electronic message or mail may be formatted to be included in the textual information (e.g., fields for timing information associated with the message or mail, subject information, summary information, preview information, contact information (e.g., of a contact sending the message or mail), a combination thereof, etc.).","In another embodiment, the display information message is associated with web browser content. In this embodiment, the HTML text content may be extracted from the HTML document by removing associated tags. Additionally or alternatively, the web browser may utilize a Really Simple Syndication (RSS) web feed to retrieve web browser content. With this approach, the RSS textual web content may be extracted. In both the web page content and RSS feed content, the textual information may be separated into sections (e.g., web URLs, sections based on a Document Object Model (DOM), sections of metadata associated with the RSS feed (e.g., publishing dates, authorship, summary, full text, other fields, etc.), a combination thereof, etc.). Each of these sections may correspond to messages that can be presented to the user (e.g., via a screen-reader compatible output).","In yet another embodiment, the display information message may be included as a portion of an output log including the textual information, time information, an identifier (e.g., a name, title, heading, etc.), or a combination thereof. The output log may be set up according to rules provided by the messaging system  (e.g., the application may be based on a framework associated with the messaging system ). In this manner, the messaging system  has control of how the updates in the log are performed and\/or the format of the textual information (e.g., headings, summary information, full text information, etc.). The rules may include formatting rules, text size rules, etc. Additionally or alternatively, the output log may be set up according to rules provided by or compatible with the messaging system  (e.g., using a standard output format or an output format known to the messaging system ).","In a further embodiment, the display information message may be associated with a GUI. The messaging system  may utilize a screen scraper and\/or optical character recognition (OCR) to recognize textual information output to a display of the computer system . As noted above, the screen scraper may additionally determine an emphasis of textual information included in the display information. Moreover, the display information may be formatted according to rules (e.g., a recognized bold font with a certain font size is associated with a heading; recognized text may be grouped into sections based on placement, etc.).","Then, at step , the messaging system  stores the formatted message in the message aggregation database . As mentioned above, in certain embodiments, the database may include a message identifier, an application identifier, a message type, message text, and timing information. Further, as described above, the message text may include one or more subcategories or fields of information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["209","100","103","501","209","207","209","207"]},"At step , the messaging system  receives an output request specifying an output message. The request may be specified using an input device . As further detailed in , the input device  may specify the output message using arrow keys to navigate a menu of a selectable user interface. Based on the request, the output message is located in the message aggregation database  (step ). The output message may include one or more fields of textual information. Further, the textual information can be compatible with a screen-reader. Then, at step , the messaging system  presents the output message via one or more output interface (e.g., audio, video, Braille, a combination thereof, etc.). In certain embodiments, at least one of the output interfaces includes a non-visual output (e.g., an audio or touch-based output).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["209","100","103","601","209","100","209","207","207","209","205","100"]},"Then, at step , the messaging system  receives input highlighting a submenu of the selectable user interface. As noted above, the submenu may include additional submenus and\/or commands that may be utilized to navigate the application menus. The menus and submenus may be broken up and nested in groups of a certain number of menu items (e.g., 1-7 menu items). In certain embodiments, the menu items can be structured in a manner that is easily recognizable by the user so the user can quickly navigate the menu items without need for receiving screen-reader compatible output from the computer system . In certain embodiments, each of the menu items may include messages that are screen-reader compatible. For example, menu items may be dynamic based on messages and\/or static and associated with information that may be easily interpreted by a non-visual output (e.g., a text-to-speech engine or a Braille output application). Each of the menu items may be selectable and\/or able to be highlighted using a scroll and click interface (e.g., scrolling using arrow keys). As submenus and\/or commands are highlighted, the submenus and\/or commands are presented to the user via a screen-reader compatible output to notify the user of the highlighted selection. When a submenu is selected, the messaging system  initiates presentation of the submenu (step ). As such, one or more menu items may be presented via a screen-reader compatible output. Further, the user may select a menu item associated with a command. When selected, the messaging system  initiates execution of the command (step ). The command may be one or more functions and\/or sub-functions associated with the application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["209","100","103","701","209","209","703","209","209","705","209","209","707"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 1 and 2A"],"b":["209","100","103","105","801","209"]},"The messages may be converted into a format compatible with non-visual communication using parts or all of the processes detailed in . In one example, a message is associated with a web page and includes web page content. As noted in the discussion of , the web page content may include sections that may include textual information. The sections may additionally have titles (e.g., headers) associated with the textual information. The web page content can be parsed into the sections and portions of each section may be converted into messages, including the message. The message may additionally be associated with additional fields (e.g., a message identifier) that can be associated with the header or title of the web page. Each of the messages may then be stored in the message aggregation database  (step ) as detailed in the discussion of . As noted above, the textual message information may be associated with other information (e.g., message type, message identifier, application identifier, etc.) when stored in the message aggregation database .","Next at step , the messaging system  sorts the messages based on a rule. In certain embodiments, the rule involves filtering the messages on message types associated with the messages. As noted above in the discussion of , the message types may include priority levels associated with the message. As such, only selected messages may be displayed in one view of a display of the message aggregation database . Non-filtered information may additionally be viewed in other views of the message aggregation database . Further, the filters may be selected via configuration settings of the messaging system . In this manner, the user may choose to view only messages associated with certain message types (e.g., priority levels). Further, at noted above in the discussions of , the filtered message aggregation database  may be sorted for presentation based on timing information and\/or other categories of information associated with messages stored in the message aggregation database . In certain embodiments, the sorting creates an additional instance of the message aggregation database  and\/or a portion of the message aggregation database  as a working copy of the information to present. In other embodiments, an index of the message aggregation database  is utilized for sorting.","The messaging system  may also be utilized to select and present one of the sorted messages as detailed in  (step ). Further, the user may select and menu items, submenu items, and commands via the messaging system . Moreover, the selection may be based on a notification generated by the messaging system . As previously noted, the messaging system  may generate and present a notification that a new message is available. This notification may be based on a set of rules such as a rule specifying that notifications are only presented to the user for messages associated with a certain priority level, one or more message types, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"],"b":["900","207","901","903","905","907","909","905","920","209","920","940","207","209"]},"Additionally or alternatively, the user may select to view messages  from the message aggregation database . The selection of the message view may be utilized to select a user interface view  into the message aggregation database . The user interface view  may be sorted using a reverse date order or via other categories (e.g., message type, message application, etc.). As such, the user is able to navigate messages to receive additional message information. Further, in certain embodiments, the each message may be associated with a message heading or summary. As such, when a message is highlighted, a screen-reader may be utilized to present the message heading or summary to the user. Then, the user may select one or more of the messages to retrieve additional textual content information associated with the messages. As noted above, the messages may be 100 percent screen-reader compatible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 7"],"b":["1000","201","209","1000","1020","1040","209"]},"With the above approaches, a messaging system  is used to interface a user with one or more applications via a message aggregation database . The application may be use an application programming interface provided by the messaging system  to update the message aggregation database  and to allow communications with a user. As such, applications with complex user interfaces may be simplified to messages that are screen-reader compatible to provide application messages that be interpreted in a non-visual output (e.g., Braille or text-to-speech) and services to the user. In this manner, a visually impaired user may utilize the services of complex applications.","While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein, other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly, the invention is not limited to such embodiments, but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 9 and 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
