---
title: Estimating influence of subjects based on a subject graph
abstract: Estimating influence includes receiving a subject graph, in which the subject graph includes two or more subject nodes, in which each subject node corresponds to a subject; and determining an objective influence measure for each first subject node of the subject graph, in which the determination is based at least on part on a function of inward scores and outward scores, in which inward scores are computed from one or more paths leading to the first subject of a length of at least one, and outward scores are computed from one or more paths leading from the first subject of a length of at least one.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244664&OS=08244664&RS=08244664
owner: Topsy Labs, Inc.
number: 08244664
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091201
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/200,638 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF ESTIMATING INFLUENCE filed Dec. 1, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","Knowledge is increasingly more germane to our exponentially expanding information-based society. Perfect knowledge is the ideal that participants seek to assist in decision making and for determining preferences, affinities, and dislikes. Practically, perfect knowledge about a given topic is virtually impossible to obtain unless the inquirer is the source of all of information about such topic (e.g., autobiographer). Armed with more information, decision makers are generally best positioned to select a choice that will lead to a desired outcome\/result (e.g., which restaurant to go to for dinner). However, as more information is becoming readily available through various electronic communications modalities (e.g., the Internet), one is left to sift through what is amounting to a myriad of data to obtain relevant and, more importantly, trust worthy information to assist in decision making activities. Although there are various tools (e.g., search engines, community boards with various ratings), there lacks any indicia of personal trustworthiness (e.g., measure of the source's reputation and\/or influence) with located data.","The invention can be implemented in numerous ways, including as a process; an apparatus; a system; a composition of matter; a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium; and\/or a processor, such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and\/or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification, these implementations, or any other form that the invention may take, may be referred to as techniques. In general, the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise, a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein, the term \u2018processor\u2019 refers to one or more devices, circuits, and\/or processing cores configured to process data, such as computer program instructions.","A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments, but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.","Currently, a person seeking to locate information to assist in a decision, to determine an affinity, and\/or identify a dislike can leverage traditional non-electronic data sources (e.g., personal recommendations\u2014which can be few and can be biased) and\/or electronic data sources such as web sites, bulletin boards, blogs, and other sources to locate (sometimes rated) data about a particular topic\/subject (e.g., where to stay when visiting San Francisco). Such an approach is time consuming and often unreliable as with most of the electronic data there lacks an indicia of trustworthiness of the source of the information. Failing to find a plethora (or spot on) information from immediate non-electronic and\/or electronic data source(s), the person making the inquiry is left to make the decision using limited information, which can lead to less than perfect predictions of outcomes, results, and can lead to low levels of satisfaction undertaking one or more activities for which information was sought.","Current practices also do not leverage trustworthiness of information or, stated differently, attribute a value to the reputation of the source of data (e.g., referral). With current practices, the entity seeking the data must make a value judgment on the reputation of the data source. Such value judgment is generally based on previous experiences with the data source (e.g., rely on Mike's restaurant recommendations as he is a chef and Laura's hotel recommendations in Europe as she lived and worked in Europe for 5 years). Unless the person making the inquiry has an extensive network of references from which to rely to obtain desired data needed to make a decision, most often, the person making the decision is left to take a risk or \u201croll the dice\u201d based on best available non-attributed (non-reputed) data. Such a prospect often leads certain participants from not engaging in a contemplated activity.","Reputation accrued by persons in such a network of references is subjective. In other words, reputation accrued by persons in such a network of references appear differently to each other person in the network, as each person's opinion is formed by their own individual networks of trust.","Real world trust networks follow a small-world pattern, that is, where everyone is not connected to everyone else directly, but most people are connected to most other people through a relatively small number of intermediaries or \u201cconnectors\u201d. Accordingly, this means that some individuals within the network may disproportionately influence the opinion held by other individuals. In other words, some people's opinions may be more influential than other people's opinions.","In some embodiments, influence is provided for augmenting reputation, which may be subjective. In some embodiments, influence can be an objective measure. For example, influence can be useful in filtering opinions, information, and data.","From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that there exists a need for systems and methods that are aimed to ameliorate the shortcomings of existing practices.","Accordingly, estimating influence is provided. For example, estimating influence includes determining an objective influence measure, which can be applied to various applications (e.g., search using objective influence) is provided. In some embodiments, estimating influence includes receiving a subject graph, in which the subject graph includes two or more subject nodes, in which each subject node corresponds to a subject; in which the subject graph is a directed graph, or if the subject graph is an undirected graph, then each undirected edge is interpreted as two directed edges in opposite directions; and determining an objective influence measure based on the subject graph for each first subject node of the subject graph, in which the determination is based at least on part on a function of inward scores and outward scores, in which inward scores are based on a count (e.g., and weights) of one or more paths leading to the first subject of a length of at least one, and outward scores are based on a count (e.g., and weights) of one or more paths leading from the first subject of a length of at least one, in which a path is a sequence of contiguous edges with a length equal to its number of edges, in which at least one of the inward paths or outward paths is of length greater than one.","In some embodiments, subjects correspond to one or more of the following: representations of a person, web log, and entities representing Internet authors or users of social media services including one or more of the following: blogs, Twitter, or reviews on Internet web sites. In some embodiments, objects correspond to one or more of the following: books, films, music, documents, websites, objects for sale, objects that are reviewed or recommended or cited, or any entities that are or may be associated with a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).","In some embodiments, systems and methods are provided allowing for the attribution of influence to data sources (e.g., sources of opinions, data, or referrals). In some embodiments, scores (e.g., influence scores) are determined for each entity within a network on a given dimension. In some embodiments, an entity is directly linked to any number of other entities on any number of dimensions, with each link possibly having an associated score. For example, a path on a given dimension between two entities, such as a source and a target, includes a directed or an undirected link from the source entity to an intermediate entity, prefixed to a directed or undirected path from the intermediate entity to the target entity in the same or possibly a different dimension.","In some embodiments, each entity with undirected or inward directed links from other entities is provided with a measure of influence on any dimension that indicates the relevant importance of such entities in parts between other entities.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","180","180","100","100","100","110","100","110","115","110","110","110","115","112","110"]},"In operation, the CPU  fetches, decodes, and executes instructions, and transfers information to and from other resources via the computer's main data-transfer path, system bus . Such a system bus connects the components in the computing system  and defines the medium for data exchange. Memory devices coupled to the system bus  include random access memory (RAM)  and read only memory (ROM) . Such memories include circuitry that allows information to be stored and retrieved. The ROM  generally includes stored data that cannot be modified. Data stored in the RAM  can be read or changed by CPU  or other hardware devices. Access to the RAM  and\/or ROM  can be controlled by memory controller . For example, the memory controller  can provide an address translation function that translates virtual addresses into physical addresses as instructions are executed.","In addition, the computing system  includes peripherals controller  responsible for communicating instructions from the CPU  to peripherals, such as, printer , keyboard , mouse , and data storage drive . Display , which is controlled by a display controller , is used to display visual output generated by the computing system . For example, such visual output can include text, graphics, animated graphics, and video. The display controller  includes electronic components required to generate a video signal that is sent to display . Further, the computing system  can include network adaptor , which can be used to connect the computing system  to an external communication network .","Computing system , described above, can be deployed as part of a computer network in accordance with some embodiments. In general, the above description for computing environments applies to both server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","205","160","210","215","220","100","225","160","160","205","100","210","215","220","225","200","100","210","215","220","225","180","205"]},"In some embodiments, in operation, a user (not shown) interacts with a computing application running on a client computing environments to obtain desired data and\/or computing applications. For example, the data and\/or computing applications can be stored on server computing environment  and communicated to cooperating users through client computing environments , , , , and , over exemplary communications network . A participating user can request access to specific data and applications housed in whole or in part on server computing environment . The data can be communicated between client computing environments , , , , and  and server computing environments for processing and storage. Server computing environment  can host computing applications, processes and applets for the generation, authentication, encryption, and communication data and applications and can cooperate with other server computing environments (not shown), third party service providers (not shown), network attached storage (NAS) and storage area networks (SAN) to realize application\/data transactions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","320","325","330","335","360","350","340","342","345","347","300","305","310","315","320","325","330"]},"In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation, client computing environments , , and  can communicate and cooperate with server computing environment  over communications network  to provide requests for and receive reputation data , , and . In the illustrative operation, intelligent reputation engine  can operate on server computing environment  to provide one or more instructions to server computing environment  to process requests for reputation data , , and  and to electronically communicate reputation data , , and  to the requesting client computing environment (e.g., client computing environment , client computing environment , or client computing environment ). As part of processing requests for reputation data , , and , intelligent reputation engine  can utilize a plurality of data comprising verification date , community data , reputation guidelines , and\/or reputation histories data . Also, as is shown in , client computing environments , , and  are capable of processing content production\/sharing data , , and  for display and interaction to one or more participating users (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","420","415","410","405","407","425","430","440","445","400","450","425","440"]},"In some embodiments, in an illustrative implementation, intelligent reputation platform  can be electronically coupled to user computing environment  and community computing environment  via communications network . For example, in the illustrative implementation, communications network can include fixed-wire and\/or wireless intranets, extranets, and the Internet.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation, users  interact with a reputation data interface (not shown) operating on user computing environment  to provide requests to initiate a reputation session that are passed across communications network  to intelligent reputation platform . In the illustrative operation, intelligent reputation platform  processes requests for a reputation session and cooperates with interactive verification data store , reputation guidelines data store , reputation histories data store , and community data store  to generate a reputation session for use by users  and community .","In some embodiments, in an illustrative implementation, verification data store  includes data representative of connections between users  and community members . For example, such data can include but is not limited to connections between users to identify a degree of association for use in generation of reputation data. In the illustrative implementation, reputation guideline data store  can include data representative of one or more rules for attributing reputations amongst users  and community . Reputation histories data store  can include one or more generated reputation attributions for use as part of reputation data processing. Community data store  can include data representative of community feedback for generated reputation data. For example, the data representative of connections can be provided through user input or generated from any number of methods including but not limited to automated or computer-assisted processing of data available on computer networks, links expressed or implied between entities on social networking websites, user commentary or \u201cblogging\u201d websites, or any other form of document available on the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","500","505","510","515","505","510","515","505","510","515"]},"In an illustrative implementation, sub-environments , , or  can represent one or more facets of a reputation target's experience, such as work, home, school, club(s), and\/or church\/temple\/commune. For example, in the illustrative implementation, an exemplary reputation target Q can inquire about the reputation of other reputation targets (e.g., obtain trusted data for use to assist in making a decision, determine an affinity, and\/or identify a dislike). The individual reputations of each of the target participants can be derived according to the herein described techniques so that each reputation target is attributed one or more reputation indicators (e.g., a reputation score associated for restaurant referrals, another reputation score associated for movie referrals, another reputation score associated for match-making, etc.). For example, the reputation indicators can be calculated based on the degree and number of relationships between reputation targets in a given sub-environment and\/or outside of a sub-environment. Once calculated, an exemplary reputation target Q can query other reputation targets for trusted data (e.g., recommendations and\/or referrals) and can process such trusted data according to reputation score of the data source (e.g., reputation target).","For example, sub-environment  can represent a place of business, sub-environment  can represent home, and sub-environment can represent a country club. In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation, each of the reputation targets of reputation attribution environment  can be attributed one or more reputation scores (e.g., reputation score for business data, reputation score for family data, etc.). In the illustrative operation, the reputation score for each reputation target for each category (e.g., business, family, social, religious, etc.) can be calculated according to the degree of relationship with other reputation targets and\/or the number of connections with other relationship targets.","In some embodiments, in the illustrative operation, reputation target Q can request data regarding a business problem (e.g., how to broker a transaction). Responsive to the request, the reputation targets of sub-environment  (e.g., reputation target can act as data sources for reputation target Q) providing data which can satisfy reputation target Q\u2032s request. Additionally, other reputation targets, who are not directly part of sub-environment , can also act as data sources to reputation target Q. In this context, the reputation score for reputation targets A, B, C, and\/or D) can have a higher reputation score than other reputation targets not part of sub-environment  as such reputation targets are within sub-environment , which is focused on business. In the illustrative operation, other reputation targets not part of sub-environment  can have equal or near level reputation scores to reputation targets (A, B, C, and\/or D) of sub-environment  based on the connections with reputation targets A, B, C, and\/or D and reputation target Q. For example, as shown in , reputation target I can have a relatively high reputation score as it pertains to business as reputation target I has a number of direct and indirect connections (I-A, I-G-B, I-H-D, I-G-E-D) to reputation targets (e.g., A, B, C, and\/or D) of sub-environment  and to inquiring reputation target Q.","It is appreciated that although exemplary reputation attribution environment  of  is shown with a configuration of sub-environments having various participants, that such description is merely illustrative of the contemplated reputation attribution environment of the herein described techniques, which can have numerous sub-environments with various participants in various other configurations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","605","610","615","620","625","600","630","635","645","650","660","670","605","610","615","640","665","670","680","620","625"]},"In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation, scores for one or more entities , , , ,  and\/or  can be determined on a network (not shown) on a given dimension ,  and\/or . In the illustrative operation, an entity , , , ,  and\/or  can be directly linked to any number of other entities , , , ,  and\/or  on any number of dimensions , , and\/or  (e.g., such that each link\u2014direct\/indirect can be associated with a score). For example, one or more dimension , , and\/or  can have an associated one or more transitive dimension  and\/or .","In some embodiments, in the illustrative operation, a directed path  on a given dimension  between two entities  and , such as a source and a target, includes a directed link from the source entity  (e.g., illustratively  as all entities , , , , , and\/or  can be source and\/or target entities depending on the perspective of the scoring attribution platform as described herein in accordance with various embodiments) to an intermediate entity , prefixed to a directed path from the intermediate entity  to the target entity .","In some embodiments, in an illustrative implementation, links on the path can be on one or more transitive dimensions  and\/or  associated with a given dimension , , and\/or . Illustratively, to determine a score on a given dimension , , and\/or  between a source entity  and a target entity , directed paths  on the given dimension , , and\/or  are determined through any kind of graph search (not shown). In the illustrative operation, the individual scores on the one or more links on the one or more paths can be combined to produce one or more resulting scores with a one or more available techniques for propagating scores and generally available techniques for resolving conflicts between different scores. Illustratively, one or more intermediate entities , , , and\/or  can also be provided with a measure of influence on the dimensions ,  and\/or  based on the universe of source entities (e.g., , , , , , ), the universe of target entities (, , , , , ) and the links between them.","It is appreciated that although reputation scoring environment  is shown to have a particular configuration operating to an illustrative operation with a particular number of dimensions, transitive dimensions, entities, direct connections and indirect connections that such description is merely illustrative as the influence calculation within the herein described embodiments can employ various dimensions, transitive dimensions, entities, direct, and\/or indirect connections having various configurations and assemblages operating according to other illustrative operations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","705","710","715","720"]},"In some embodiments, in an illustrative implementation, the processing of  can be performed such that for a population of entities, a method of determining scores, each within the range R which can be mapped to the values \u22121 . . . +1, for a target entity connected to a source entity on a network that can be conceptually represented as a directed graph on each given dimension, such that an entity can be directly, uni-directionally linked to any number of other entities on any number of dimensions, with each direct link having an associated score within the range R. Further, each dimension can have an associated transitive dimension and such that a directed path on a given dimension between two entities, a source entity and a target entity, can be defined as a direct link from the source entity to an intermediate entity, prefixed to a directed path from the intermediate entity to the target entity, subject to the selected constraints including but not limited to: 1) a direct link from any entity to the target entity must be on the given dimension, and 2) a direct link on the path from any entity to an intermediate entity that is not the target entity must be either on the transitive dimension associated with the given dimension, or on the given dimension itself if the given dimension is itself is a transitive dimension.","In some embodiments, in the illustrative operation, the processing of  can include but is not limited to: (A) performing a graph search (e.g., using generally available graph search techniques) to identify directed paths from a source entity to a target entity on a given dimension subject to the above definition of a directed path, which optimally results in a directed graph combining all such identified directed paths. For example, the resulting directed graph can be defined as a scoring graph that can be stored separately. In the illustrative operation, individual scores can be combined (B) on each direct link on each path on the scoring graph to produce one or more final scores, with or without an associated set of confidence values in the range C=0 . . . 1 for each resulting score, for the target entity from the perspective of the source entity. For example, in the illustrative operation, the acts (A) and (B) can be performed in sequence, or performed simultaneously; when performed simultaneously, the combination of individual scores described in act (B) being performed during the graph search described in act (A) without the creation of separately stored scoring graph; and in which the graph search performed in act (A) can be optimized by some combination of scores identified through act (B) such that the optimization may result in the exclusion of certain paths between the source entity and the target entity.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated as the count of other entities with direct links to the entity or with a path, possibly with a predefined maximum length, to the entity; with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link, the length of each path, and the level of each entity on each path.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated with the adjusted count calculated through the operations described herein (e.g., estimated as the count of other entities with direct links to the entity or with a path, possibly with a predefined maximum length, to the entity; with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link, the length of each path, and the level of each entity on each path), transformed into a rank or percentile relative to the similarly measured influence of all other entities.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated as the count of actual requests for data, opinion, or searches relating to or originating from other entities, entities with direct links to the entity or with a path, possibly with a predefined maximum length, to the entity; such actual requests being counted if they result in the use of the paths originating from the entity (e.g., representing opinions, reviews, citations or other forms of expression) with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link, the length of each path, and the level of each entity on each path.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated with the adjusted count calculated through the operations described herein, transformed into a rank or percentile relative to the similarly measured influence of all other entities.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated as the count of actual requests for data, opinion, or searches relating to or originating from other entities, entities with direct links to the entity or with a path, possibly with a predefined maximum length, to the entity; such actual requests being counted if they occur within a predefined period of time and result in the use of the paths originating from the entity (e.g., representing opinions, reviews, citations or other forms of expression) with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link, the length of each path, and the level of each entity on each path.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated with the adjusted count calculated through the operations described herein, transformed into a rank or percentile relative to the similarly measured influence of all other entities.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity is estimated by applying to it any of several graph metric functions, such as centrality or betweenness, in which the functions, such as centrality or betweenness, is estimated either by relating the entity to the entire graph including all linked entities, or by relating the entity to a subgraph comprising all entities linked to the entities directly or by paths of up to a given length. In some embodiments, determining the objective influence measure is performed using one or more of the following functions: any form of graph centrality, including betweenness centrality, degree centrality, closeness centrality, eigenvector centrality, flow centrality; including where such functions are applied using additional weightings on each edge of the graph additional to any existing edge weights, such additional weightings being functions of a the use of each edge in order to serve actual requests for data, opinion, or searches relating to or originating from other entities.","In some embodiments, the illustrative operations described herein for the calculation of influence is performed for each dimension separately, resulting in one influence measure for each entity for each dimension; for all dimensions together, resulting in one influence measure for each entity; or for any given subgroup of dimensions together applied to any given entity, resulting in each entity having as many influence measures as the number of subgroups of dimensions applied to that entity.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the influence of each entity as estimated in each of the operations described herein, is adjusted by metrics relating to the graph comprising all entities or a subset of all linked entities. For example, such metrics can include the density of the graph, defined as the ratio of the number of links to the number of linked entities in the graph; such metrics are transformed by mathematical functions optimal to the topology of the graph, such as where it is known that the distribution of links among entities in a given graph may be non-linear. An example of such an adjustment would be the operation of estimating the influence of an entity as the number of directed links connecting to the entity, divided by the logarithm of the density of the graph comprising all linked entities. For example, such an operation can provide an optimal method of estimating influence rapidly with a limited degree of computational complexity.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, in which the influence of entities as estimated in each of the operations described herein is estimated for separate, unconnected graphs; and where such influence estimated for entities in separate, unconnected graphs is adjusted by applying metrics relating to each separate unconnected graph in its entirety, as shown in the operations described herein; the influence of each entity on one graph, thus adjusted, is normalized and compared to the influence of another entity on another graph, also thus adjusted. For example, such an operation allows for the use of influence measures across separate, unconnected graphs.","In some embodiments, in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques, the estimation of influence is optimized for different contexts and requirements of performance, memory, graph topology, number of entities, and\/or any other context and\/or requirement, by any combination of the operations described above in paragraphs above, and any similar operations involving metrics including but not limited to values comprising: the number of potential source entities to the entity for which influence is to be estimated, the number of potential target entities, the number of potential directed paths between any one entity and any other entity on any or all given dimensions, the number of potential directed paths that include the entity, the number of times within a defined period that a directed link from the entity is used for a scoring, search or other operation(s).","It is understood that the herein described techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative embodiments. There is no intention to limit the herein described techniques to the specific embodiments described herein. On the contrary, the herein described techniques are intended to cover all modifications, alternative embodiments, and equivalents falling within the scope and spirit of the herein described techniques.","It should also be noted that the herein described techniques can be implemented in a variety of electronic environments (including both non-wireless and wireless computer environments, including cell phones and video phones), partial computing environments, and real world environments. For example, the various techniques described herein can be implemented in hardware or software, or a combination of both. In some embodiments, the techniques are implemented in computing environments maintaining programmable computers that include a computer network, processor, servers, a storage medium readable by the processor (e.g., including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. In some embodiments, computing hardware logic cooperating with various instructions sets are applied to data to perform the functions described herein and to generate output information. The output information is applied to one or more output devices. For example, programs used by the exemplary computing hardware can be implemented in various programming languages, including high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. As another example, the herein described techniques can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Each such computer program is preferably stored on a storage medium or device (e.g., ROM or magnetic disk) that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described above. For example, the apparatus can also be considered to be implemented as a computer-readable storage medium, configured with a computer program, in which the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner.","Although exemplary implementations of the herein described techniques have been described in detail above, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many additional modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the herein described techniques. Accordingly, these and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the herein described techniques.","Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
