---
title: Skin stretch tactile feedback device
abstract: The tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments includes at least one skin contact pad; at least one actuator designed to move the at least one skin contact pad and attached to the at least one skin contact pad in a manner suitable to allow the actuator to move the at least one skin contact pad; a processor coupled to the actuator that executes a control logic and functions to control the movements of the at least one actuator; the control logic functions to determine the motions of the at least one actuator and is designed to move the at least one actuator in a manner that stretches the skin of the user. The tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments has been designed to provide feedback to a user in a way that provides the user with information regarding a task that they are performing. The tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments, however, may be used for any suitable purpose.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08491665&OS=08491665&RS=08491665
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 08491665
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091216
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","Government Rights","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","1. First Preferred Embodiment","2. Second Preferred Embodiment","3. Third Preferred Embodiment"],"p":["This application claims priority and other benefits from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/203,455, filed Dec. 22, 2008, entitled \u201cWearable Skin Stretch Device for Tactile Feedback\u201d. Its entire content is specifically incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under contract IIS-0554188 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},"The following description of the preferred embodiments of the invention is intended to enable someone skilled in the prior art to make and use this invention, but is not intended to limit the invention to these preferred embodiments.","As shown in , the tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments includes at least one skin contact pad ; at least one actuator  designed to move the at least one skin contact pad  and attached to the at least one skin contact pad  in a manner suitable to allow the actuator to move the at least one skin contact pad ; a processor  coupled to the actuator that executes a control logic and functions to control the movements of the at least one actuator ; the control logic functions to determine the motions of the at least one actuator  and is designed to move the at least one actuator  in a manner that stretches the skin of the user. The tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments has been designed to provide feedback to a user in a way that provides the user with information regarding a task that they are performing. The tactile feedback device of the preferred embodiments, however, may be used for any suitable purpose.","As shown in , , , and , the actuator functions to rotate, translate, or both rotate and translate the at least one skin contact pad . As shown in , at least two skin contact pads  are included when the actuator functions to create any sort of translational movement. As shown in , the translation may include movement of the at least two skin contact pads  towards or away from one another. As shown in , the translation may alternatively include movement of the at least two skin contact pads  parallel to one another and in opposite directions, such that they move tangentially to one another. Alternatively the translation may include a combination of both forms of movement. Preferably, the translational movement is created by rotating one of the at least two skin contact pads  around at least one other of the at least two skin contact pads , as shown in . In a first variation, the translational movement can be created by rotating the at least two skin contact pads  around a fixed point, as shown in . Alternatively, the translational movement can be created by linear motion or any other suitable means. As shown in , the tactile feedback device may alternatively include more than two skin contact pads . The skin contact pads may, however, be moved in any mode or combination of modes suitable for stretching the user's skin .","As shown in , the actuator is preferably coupled to a transmission , and the transmission  is preferably coupled to the at least two skin contact pads . As shown in and , the transmission  is designed to transfer the motion of the at least one actuator  to the at least two skin contact pads , and is preferably designed to transfer the motion of the at least one actuator  into the rotation and translation of at least one of the at least two skin contact pads . However, the transmission  may be connected to only one skin contact pad, or any other number of skin contact pads. The transmission  may, alternatively, be designed to transfer the movement of the actuator into any form of skin contact pad motion.","In a first preferred variation, the transmission  is a cable transmission . In a second preferred variation, the transmission  is a geared transmission . In a third preferred variation, the transmission  is a combination cable and geared transmission . In an alternative variation, the actuator is coupled to a cable transmission  which is coupled to a geared transmission , and the geared transmission  is coupled to the at least two skin contact pads . However, the transmission  can be any suitable design capable of transferring the actuator movement into the required movement of the at least one skin contact pad .","The control logic of the tactile feedback device includes an algorithm that determines how to move the at least one skin contact pad  in a way that stretches the user's skin  and provides feedback  to the user , as shown in . Preferably the control logic determines a desired position of the at least one skin contact pad  to create the desired feedback . Preferably the control logic includes calculating the difference between the desired position of the at least one skin contact pad  and the actual position of the at least one skin contact pad , and preferably the control logic uses this calculated difference to refine the motion of the at least one actuator  and the at least one skin contact pad . Preferably the control logic also calculates the derivative of the difference between the actual and desired positions of the at least one skin contact pad , and the control logic preferably takes this information into account when determining the speed of the at least one actuator  and the at least one skin contact pad .","As shown in , the tactile feedback device preferably includes a sensor  coupled to the processor , and the processor  is designed to take into account the output of the sensor  when calculating how to stretch the user's skin  and how to move the at least one actuator . The sensor  is preferably a position sensor  or a motion sensor . In one preferred variation, the sensor  is an accelerometer. However it may be any suitable type of sensor  which can be used to influence or determine the feedback given to the user. Preferably, the processor  instructs the actuator to make one or more of: the amount of skin stretch, the direction of skin stretch, and the speed of skin stretch relative to the output of the sensor . The control logic preferably takes into account the output of the sensor  when determining the desired position of the at least one skin contact pad . The desired position of the at least one skin contact pad  may, however, be determined by any suitable means. The tactile feedback device may also include any number of sensors or none at all.","As shown in , the tactile feedback device preferably includes a rotational sensor  coupled to the processor  and to the at least one skin contact pad . The processor  is preferably designed to use the output of the rotational sensor  to monitor the position of the at least one skin contact pad . The processor  is preferably further designed to use the rotational sensor  to refine the motion of the at least one actuator  and the at least one skin contact pad . The processor  refines the motion of the at least one actuator  and the at least one skin contact pad  by using the control logic, wherein the actual position of the at least one skin contact pad  is preferably determined by the rotational sensor . In one variation, the actual position of the at least one skin contact pad  is assumed by taking into account the history of the instructions given to the actuator by the processor . The actual position of the at least one skin contact pad  may, however, be determined by any suitable means or may not be determined. The rotational sensor  is preferably an encoder or a hall effect sensor, though it may be any suitable type of rotational sensor .","As shown in , the at least one actuator  is preferably one actuator. Preferably the actuator is a piezoelectric motor, however the actuator can be any suitable type of actuator. As shown in , in one variation the tactile feedback device includes more than one actuator .","As shown in , , , and , the tactile feedback device is preferably mounted on any one of the user's arm , the user's leg , the user's torso  and the user's hand . The tactile feedback device may also be mounted on any other suitable portion of the user's body where it can stretch the user's skin .","As shown in , the tactile feedback device of the second preferred embodiment includes a prosthetic body part ; at least one moving component  coupled to the prosthetic body part ; at least one sensor  coupled to the at least one moving component  and designed to sense information regarding the at least one moving component ; a tactile feedback device coupled to the at least one sensor  and designed to provide feedback to the user based on the sensed information regarding the at least one moving component . The tactile feedback device includes at least one skin contact pad ; at least one actuator  coupled to the at least one skin contact pad  and designed to move the at least one skin contact pad ; a processor  designed to control the at least one actuator  and designed to implement a control logic; the control logic is designed to determine how the actuator is moved and is designed to move the actuator in a manner that stretches the skin of the user and provides the user with feedback. The information regarding the at least one moving component  includes one or more of: the motion, velocity, or position of the at least one moving component , the force on the at least one moving component , and the force exerted by the at least one moving component .","As shown in , the method of the third preferred embodiment includes (a) stretching a user's skin by the use of one or more of the following: the rotation of at least one skin contact pad and the translation of at least two skin contact pads; and (b) changing at least one quality of the skin stretch over time, where the change in skin stretch is designed to provide feedback to a user.","As shown in , the method preferably includes taking into account information from a sensor when deciding how to change the motion of the at least one skin contact pad. Preferably the sensor is attached to at least one segment of the user's body or at least one moving component on a prosthetic body part, however it can be mounted in any way that allows it to gather information on at least one segment of the user's body or at least one moving component of a prosthetic body part. Preferably the sensor is either a position sensor, a motion sensor, or both. In one variation more than one sensor may be used. Any suitable type of information, both from sensors and without sensors, may, however, be used to decide how to change the motion of the at least one skin contact pad.","As shown in , the method preferably includes taking information on the position of at least one segment of a user's body or at least one moving component of a prosthetic body part from a position sensor and calculating the motion of the at least one skin contact pad using the position information such that the motion is relative to the position information. The motion of the at least one skin contact pad is then instructed taking into account the motion calculated by this process. The motion of the at least one skin contact pad may, however, be calculated and instructed using any suitable means that create suitable feedback.","As shown in , the method preferably includes taking information on the velocity of at least one segment of the user's body or at least one moving component of a prosthetic body part from a motion sensor and calculating the velocity of the at least one skin contact pad using the velocity information such that the velocity is relative to the velocity information. The velocity of the at least one skin contact pad is then instructed taking into account the velocity calculated by this process. The velocity of the at least one skin contact pad may, however, be calculated and instructed using any suitable means that create suitable feedback.","The method may, however, provide feedback to the user in response to any situation and for any purpose. In one variation, the method provides feedback relative to the actions of a vehicle the user is controlling. In another variation, the method provides feedback to the user relative to an abstract task a user is performing, including a task on a computer; however the task may be of any type where suitable advantage may be gained from providing feedback.","As a person skilled in the prior art will recognize after examination of the previous detailed description and the figures and claims, modifications and changes may be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
