---
title: Automatically-reloadable, remotely-operated weapon system having an externally-powered firearm
abstract: An automatically-reloadable, remotely-operated weapon system may include an operator station located distant from a weapon station. The weapon station may include an externally-powered firearm, a firearm mover for adjusting an azimuth and an angle of inclination of the firearm, and an ammunition storage and transport system for automatically moving ammunition to and from the firearm. From the operator station, a user may remotely control all aspects of firearm operation and ammunition reloading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08336442&OS=08336442&RS=08336442
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08336442
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091119
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119(e) of U.S. provisional patent application 61\/116,746 filed on Nov. 21, 2008, and U.S. provisional patent application 61\/177,797 filed on May 13, 2009, both of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/607,393 entitled \u201cReciprocally-Cycled, Externally Actuated Weapon,\u201d with a filing date of Oct. 28, 2009 and the same assignee as the instant application, is expressly incorporated by reference herein.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used and\/or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes, without the payment of royalties by the U.S. Government to the inventors or any future assignees.","The invention relates in general to remotely-operated weapons and, in particular to automatically reloadable, remotely-operated, externally-powered weapons.","Remotely-operated weapons may include a turret mounted on a vehicle, or on a fixed or mobile carriage. The turret may include a frame for supporting a firearm. The firearm may be suspended in a tilting manner in a pintle affixed to the frame. To point the firearm in the direction of a target, the turret head may be swiveled by an azimuth motor. The inclination of the firearm may be controlled by a motor that elevates the frame.","The firearm used in a remotely-operated weapon may be a conventional, human-operated firearm. The human-operated weapon may require manual feeding of ammunition into the firearm. Thus, the human operator may be at risk when operating the weapon. Also, the human-operated firearm may be commandeered and utilized by the enemy.","An object of the invention is to provide a remotely-operated weapon system that may be automatically reloaded.","Another object of the invention is to provide a remotely-operated weapon system that includes an externally-powered firearm.","A further object of the invention is to provide a payload storage and transportation system for moving objects along a linear path.","One aspect of the invention is an automatically-reloadable, remotely-operated weapon system that may include an operator station and a weapon station located distant from the operator station. The weapon station may include an externally-powered firearm, a firearm mover for adjusting an azimuth and an angle of inclination of the firearm, and an ammunition storage and transport system for automatically moving ammunition to and from the firearm. Communicators may be disposed at the operator station and the weapon station for exchanging information between the two stations.","The ammunition storage and transport system may include a transporter, a track disposed adjacent the transporter, and a storage assembly disposed adjacent the transporter. The storage assembly may include at least one retention slot disposed at a first end of the track.","Another aspect of the invention is a method that may include providing an automatically-reloadable, remotely-operated weapon system and, automatically reloading a firearm by moving a first ammunition container away from the firearm and moving a second ammunition container adjacent the firearm.","A further aspect of the invention is a transporter for moving a payload along a linear path. The transporter may include a stationary base and a first arm assembly. The first arm assembly may include a first gear coupled to the stationary base, an idler gear that meshes with the first gear, and a second gear that meshes with the idler gear. The first and second gears may include parallel axes. A gear ratio of the first gear to the second gear may be 2:1.","The transporter may include a driver for rotating the first arm assembly around the axis of the first gear. A second arm assembly may be rigidly coupled to the second gear such that rotation of the second gear rotates the second arm assembly around the axis of the second gear. The second arm assembly may include a third axis that is parallel to the axes of the first and second gears wherein a distance between the first gear axis and the second gear axis is a same distance as a distance between the second gear axis and the third axis. A payload engager may be disposed at the third axis, for engaging and disengaging the payload.","Yet another aspect of the invention is a payload storage and transport system. The payload storage and transport system may include a transporter and a storage assembly disposed adjacent the transporter. The storage assembly may include at least one retention slot disposed at a first end of a track.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Before describing a remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system, a novel storage and transport system will be described, with reference to . The storage and transport system described herein may be used in a remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system. The storage and transport system may include a transporter for transporting ammunition to and from a firearm used in the remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system.","Embodiments of the transporter disclosed herein may be useful not only for transporting ammunition, but also for moving or transporting other objects along any linear path. The objects may be anything, including containers with or without contents therein. In the description of the various embodiments herein, the objects being moved or transported may be referred to as \u201cpayloads.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["100","1","45","43","49","43","1","45","43","45","1","45","1","45","45","47","43","43","47","45","49","1","71","47","1","43","51","49","47","71","51"]},"In , the storage assembly  may have a curved shape. That is, the retention slots  may be arranged in a circular manner  is a perspective view of another embodiment of a payload storage and transport system , including a transporter , payloads , and a storage assembly  which may retention slots  arranged in a linear fashion. Mechanisms (not shown in the Figs.) for moving the retention slots  of storage assemblies ,  are known. For example, for a curved storage assembly , retention slots  may be mounted on a large bearing that is attached to a large gear. The large gear may mesh with a small pinion gear. The small pinion gear may be driven by a servo motor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 3","FIGS. 14(","FIGS. 15("],"b":["1","1","3","7","3","3","5","7","3","1","61","3","1","63"],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},"Referring again to , worm gear  may have an axis . A first arm assembly  may include first and second ends , . First arm assembly  may be rigidly connected to worm gear  adjacent end  of first arm assembly . First arm assembly  may include a gear  having an axis . Gear  may be rigidly connected to a stationary base  via a shaft . Thus, gear  may be stationary, with respect to base , throughout the operation of the transporter .","A gear , having an axis , may be disposed in rotatable communication with gear  via idler gear . Idler gear , having an axis , may be disposed between and engage gears  and . A second arm assembly  may be rigidly connected to gear  via shaft . The second arm assembly  may include first and second ends , . Rotation of gear  may rotate the second arm assembly  about its axis . This rotation may move the end  of the second arm assembly  in a circular arc of travel.","Worm  may be operable to drive worm gear  about its axis , thereby rotating the first arm assembly . First arm assembly  may be rigidly attached to worm gear . In one embodiment, worm gear  may be formed integrally with the first arm assembly . Rotation of the first arm assembly  about the axis  of gear  may rotate idler gear , which meshes with and rotates around stationary gear . Rotation of the idler gear  may thereby rotate the gear  in a direction opposite to that of idler gear .","Maintaining the distance between the axis  of gear  and the axis  of gear  substantially equal to the distance between the axes  and  of the second arm assembly  may enable travel of the axis  of the second arm assembly  in a linear path. The gear ratio of gear  to gear  may be 2:1.","A payload engager  may be disposed concentric with the axis  of the second arm assembly . Payload engager  may be extended or retracted via a solenoid  to engage and disengage with a payload . )-() are perspective and partially cutaway perspective views, respectively, of the second arm assembly  and solenoid . In )-(), the solenoid  is energized to retract the payload engager . )-() are perspective and partially cutaway perspective views, respectively, of the second arm assembly  and solenoid . In )-(), the solenoid  is de-energized to extend the payload engager  into engagement with a payload. In one embodiment, the payload engager  may be, for example, a pin, as shown in . Payload engager  may have a form other than a pin, for example, any form suitable for engaging with a particular payload may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIGS. 19(","FIG. 1)"],"i":["a","b"],"b":["43","43","55","67","53","55","43","43","49","43","69","51","53","65","49"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIGS. 8-11","FIGS. 8("],"b":["1","73","71","47","71","47","65","53","11","33","49","73","71"],"i":["a","b"]},"Moving from the start position to a second position shown in ) and (), rotation of worm gear  may rotate first arm assembly  upwards, thereby rotating gear  and second arm assembly . Rotation of second arm assembly  may cause payload engager  to be positioned beneath an opening  in payload , as in )-(). When engager  is beneath opening , solenoid  may be de-energized (see )-()) to thereby engage the payload . The second arm assembly  may then be parallel to rails  and below the user slot .","Worm gear  may then be rotated in an opposite direction by worm , thereby swinging second arm assembly  downwards, and causing the payload engager  to slide the payload  partially down the track , as in )-(). Worm gear  may continue to rotate, causing the second arm assembly  to reach a position parallel to rails  and adjacent the retention slot  at the end of track , as in )-().","In , the payload  may be moved a distance along the tracks  equal to the full range of travel of the payload engager . Depending upon the application, it may be desired to move a payload a distance greater than the full range of travel of the payload engager . This may be achieved by using a stop mechanism  () to retain the payload along track  at a location between the ends of the track . Stop mechanism  may include one or more supports . The payload may bear against a support  to thereby retain the payload in a position between the ends of track . The stop mechanism may be activated by a second solenoid .","When the second solenoid  is actuated, the stop mechanism  may rotate upwardly so that the supports  are adjacent the payload. After the stop mechanism  retains the payload, the payload engager  may disengage from a first point on the payload. Transporter  may then be rotated to move the payload engager  to a different location. Then, the payload engager  may re-engage with the payload at a second point on the payload. The stop mechanism  may then be rotated downward, and the transporter  may continue moving the payload along the track  until reaching a final position.","As seen in , stop mechanism  may be disposed adjacent track . The solenoid  may be disposed in communication with the stop mechanism . Solenoid  may removably engage the stop mechanism  with the payload  during travel of the payload  along the track . Payload  may include one or more payload slots  ()) for removable engagement with the payload engager . Compared to the distance of travel without a stop mechanism , the total distance of travel of the payload  may be increased by the distance L ()) between the payload slots .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 13("],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","b","a","b"],"b":["1","41","39","41","47","71","65","53","55","43","1","43","71","49","39","41","43","75","12","53","55","43","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIGS. 13(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 13("],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","b"],"b":["53","55","43","41","39","75","43","1","43","47"]},"In transporter , gear  may be rigidly fixed and stationary with respect to stationary base  (). That is, gear  may not move or rotate with respect to base . In another embodiment, gear  may rotate with respect to base . That is, gear  may be rigidly fixed to shaft  and shaft  may rotate with respect to base .  show an embodiment of a transporter  in which gear  may rotate with respect to base .","Transporter  may include an actuator  that may rotate gear  via a drive arm . Actuator  is shown in  as a linear actuator, but, a rotational actuator, such as motor, could also be used. Actuator  may control movement of second arm assembly  independent of the movement of first arm assembly . In this manner, the payload engager  may move not only parallel to rails , but also lateral to rails .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 16(","FIG. 16("],"i":["a","b","a"],"b":["77","79","81","53","101","53","81","77","101","12","53"]},"As shown in )-(), drive arm  may be attached at one end to gear  and at the other end to actuator . Using the actuator , gear  may rotate about its axis . Actuator  may rotate gear  via the drive arm  to slide the payload engager  into a slot  on the bottom of the payload , as seen in )-(). Actuator  and gear  may remain in the position shown in )-(), and the motor  may then rotate the worm gear . Rotation of the worm gear  may rotate the first arm assembly , thereby rotating the idler gear  and the gear . Gear  may then rotate the second arm assembly , such that the payload engager  may move the payload  down the track , as shown in )-().","Transporters ,  are linear transport systems that are compact and may move a payload over a relatively large distance. The amount of space required by the transporters ,  at the ends of its range of movement (use slot  and retention slot ) is minimal. There is no permanent intrusion of the transporters ,  into the areas of the use slot  and the retention slot . In a \u201chome\u201d position, where the first and second arm assemblies ,  are perpendicular to the linear path of movement of a payload, the mechanisms of the transporters ,  may be totally contained within a volume between the use slot  and the retention slot . Thus, the volume available for the use slot , retention slot , and their associated mechanisms is greater than in other linear transport systems.","The stop mechanism  increases the transport distance even more. The stop mechanism  further reduces the presence of the transporter mechanism into the areas at either end of its movement. The openings  () in payload  may be located at the ends of the payload , rather than the midsection of the payload . Thus, the second arm assembly  does not have to extend very far under the payload  to engage an opening  in the payload . This is the case whether the payload  is in the use slot  or the retention slot .","The lateral motion of the payload engager  of transporter  simplifies the construction of the first and second arm assemblies , . That is, the solenoid  and its associated linkages, that may be part of transporter , may not be required in transporter .","The storage and transport system described with reference to  may be a component of a remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system. A remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system will be described with reference to .","Referring to , a remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system  may include an operator station , a weapon station , and a communication medium or link . Communication medium  may be a wired medium, a wireless medium, or any other means for communicating information between the operator station  and the weapon station .","Operator station  and weapon station  may include respective communicators ,  for exchanging information between them. Communicators ,  may be any suitable communication device, such as, for example, a modem, a transmitter and a receiver, a transceiver, or other communication devices. Communicators ,  and communication medium  may handle analog, digital, or both analog and digital signals. Communications between the communicators  and  may be encrypted. Operator station  and weapon station  may each include respective power supplies , .","The operator station  may be located distant from the weapon station . A human user may control the weapon station  from the operator station . Operator station  may include one or more computers  that may have visual displays . Displays  may include graphical user interfaces (GUIs) . Operator station  may include one or more joysticks  and additional controls . Additional controls  may include, for example, switches, dials, push buttons, knobs, etc.","The weapon station  may include a firearm . The firearm  may be externally-powered, for example, by a motor. A firearm is \u201cexternally-powered\u201d if the power for cycling the firearm is independent of the operation of the weapon. For example, the cycling of an externally-powered firearm does not depend on products of combustion or recoil that are produced by the firearm. A reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered firearm suitable for firearm  is disclosed in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/607,393. An advantage of the firearm disclosed in application Ser. No. 12\/607,393 is that it may be powered or driven by a variable speed motor, which, in conjunction with that firearm's novel operating and firing group, allows the firing rate of the firearm to be infinitely variable from zero to the design maximum of the firearm.","Weapon station  may include one or more computers , a firearm mover , and an ammunition storage and transport system . The firearm mover  may adjust the pointing direction of the firearm  in a known manner, for example, mover  may include a turret for changing the azimuth of the firearm  and an elevator for changing the angle of inclination of the firearm . The ammunition storage and transport system  may be an automatic system that does not require a human to physically move the ammunition to and from the firearm .","The firearm , the firearm mover , and the ammunition storage and transport system  may each include motors or actuators , ,  and various sensors , , , respectively. The motors or actuators , ,  may actuate components of the station . The sensors , ,  may sense positions, states, or modes of the station , the station's components, and the surrounding environment. Sensors , ,  may include, for example, video cameras, thermal cameras, infrared cameras, ultraviolet cameras, audio microphones, low frequency microphones, radio frequency receivers, position sensors, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20"],"b":["900","900"]},"System  may use standard, well-defined electrical and software interfaces that may be available on a wide variety of computers, microprocessors, and microcontrollers. As such, the embodiments of the system  may vary significantly and may be designed in accordance with the end-user requirements, rather than constrained by specific technologies or vendors. Furthermore, advances in technology that may provide increased capability may be easily incorporated in system  by replacing the system component with the newer technology. So, upgrades to system  may be less costly and may ensure that the system  remains at the forefront of technology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20","FIG. 20"],"b":["906","928","944","946","944","948","946","926","956","952","958","956","954","952","952","930","946","940","930","950","930","942","930"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"b":["906","946","944","930","946","950","946","930","940","930","940"]},"The transporter  may be, for example, transporter  () or transporter  ()-()). Transporter  may be disposed adjacent a track  on which ammunition containers  may be moved to and from firearm . Payload engager  may engage containers , as described with respect to payloads  ()-()),  (, and  ()-()). A use slot  for receiving ammunition containers  may be disposed adjacent firearm . Ammunition containers  may contain differing types of ammunition, for example, lethal rounds, non-lethal rounds, armor piercing rounds, rounds of various weight, rounds of various shapes, rounds with varying aerodynamic qualities, etc.","Storage assembly  may be, for example, storage assembly  () and may include retention slots  for containers . A storage assembly side wall  may be fixed to a storage assembly base . Base  (with retention slots ) may be rotated by motor  (). A lid  may be fixed for rotation with turret arm , and therefore, may rotate with respect to side wall  and base . A seal ring  may be disposed between the outer periphery of lid  and the upper edge of side wall .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 23","FIG. 25","FIG. 25","FIG. 23","FIG. 26","FIG. 26","FIG. 23"],"b":["906","968","47","906","960","956","49","906","930"]},"Referring to , weapon station  may be controlled by, for example, the computer , the controls , and the joystick  located at the operator station . The joystick  may be used, for example, to adjust the azimuth and elevation of firearm , to zoom and focus cameras located in optical unit  (), to operate a laser range finder located in optical unit , and to fire firearm . \u201cFiring\u201d firearm  means that the operating group of the firearm  is moved through a firing sequence by the motor . The joystick  may include a \u201cdead-man\u201d switch for disabling the firing function and the motion (azimuth and elevation) function.","The speed of movement of the operating group of firearm  may be varied by varying the speed of motor . In addition, various modes of fire may be selected, for example, a single-shot mode, a burst mode, an automatic mode, and a precision mode. In a precision mode, the operating group of firearm  may be cycled to a position just prior to \u201cfiring\u201d and then stopped. Starting from this stopped position, only a very small movement of the operating group of the firearm  may be needed to fire a cartridge. Thus, any inaccuracy that may be caused by movement of components in the firearm  may be minimized by using the precision mode of firing.","To control the ammunition storage and transport system , the human user may not need to directly control each motor and actuator of the system . Rather, computers  and  may be programmed to initiate a specific set of actions in response to, for example, the push of a single button by the human user. In this way, the system  may be simple for a human user to operate.","Control devices, such as buttons, dials, switches, etc. in operator station  may be actual, physical buttons, dials, switches, etc, or, such controls may be implemented in a \u201cvirtual\u201d manner by using a computer display touch screen and generating images of the various push buttons, dials, etc. directly on the touch screen.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["918","922","800","810","900","918","942","906","930","918","812","812","812","812"]},"A firing mode selector knob  may allow the user to select between precision, single shot, a burst of shots, or fully automatic.","An armed\/safe covered toggle switch  may default to the safe position when closed and may allow the user to arm the system. In the safe position, the firearm  may not fire. In the armed position, the firearm  may be enabled to fire.","A camera selection toggle switch  may allow the user to select either the day camera or the thermal camera in the optics unit . A thermal camera selection toggle switch  may allow the user to select either \u201cwhite hot\u201d or \u201cblack hot\u201d for the thermal camera. The intensity of the reticules in the optics unit  may be adjusted by operating the crosshair bright switch .","A display contrast switch  may be used to adjust the contrast of the visual display . A display brightness switch  may be used to adjust the brightness of the visual display .","A stabilization toggle switch  may allow the user to turn on or off the system stabilization. System stabilization is an algorithm that may run on computer  (). The system stabilization algorithm may use data from sensors . Sensors  may measure rotational position and\/or velocity of the firearm  in up to three different axes. Sensors  may also measure the rotational position and\/or velocity of the turret base  in up to three different axes. Turret base  may be rigidly mounted to a moving vehicle, for example.","The system stabilization algorithm may use the measurements from sensors  to determine positions of firearm  in azimuth and elevation and\/or velocities of firearm  in azimuth and elevation. The system stabilization algorithm may minimize the motion of the firearm  to assist the human operator in keeping the firearm  on the target. Motion commands for firearm  that originate from a human operator (via the joystick  or other means) may be summed with motion commands generated by the stabilization algorithm, and then applied to motors  that move firearm .","Another form of system stabilization may be also be used when the firearm  is fired from a moving platform. The range to the target provided by the laser range finder, data from the sensors , and data from sensors that may measure linear positions, velocities, and\/or accelerations of the moving platform may be used in a separate algorithm. This algorithm may be run on computer  and may include ballistic corrections to minimize the distance from the center of a stationary target to the location where the rounds from firearm  actually impact.","Emergency stop button  may be used to quickly shut down the system  in the case of an emergency. Unlike simply disconnecting power, the stop button  may shut down the system  in a safe manner. First, the firearm  may cease firing, the transporter motor  () may be powered off, and the storage assembly motor  () may be powered off. Once the firearm  has ceased firing, the azimuth and elevation motors ,  may also be turned off. The stop procedure initiated with button  may ensure that the operator retains control of the pointing direction of the firearm  during a system failure in which the firearm  may continue to fire even after the operator has commanded the firearm  to stop firing.","A lethality toggle switch  may allow the user to switch between lethal and non-lethal ammunition. Putting the switch  in the lethal position may not allow non-lethal ammunition to be loaded or fired. With the switch  in the non-lethal position, lethal ammunition may not be able to be loaded or fired. If the wrong type of ammunition is loaded when the switch position is changed, the AMMUNITION SELECTION menu () may be displayed, thereby allowing the user to change the active ammunition container  for one of the correlating ammunition type.  shows a lethal cartridge .  shows a non-lethal cartridge .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["900","906","906","930"]},"To enter the ENGAGEMENT mode, the dead-man switch is \u201con\u201d in the joystick  (). In the ENGAGEMENT mode, possible actions may include firing the firearm , moving the firearm , and controlling the optics unit . A \u201cfast reload\u201d action (initiated by pushing a virtual button ) may be a single step to unload the active ammunition container  and load another ammunition container  having the most rounds of the same type of ammunition. The fast reload virtual button may indicate the maximum number of rounds in a single ammunition container  and the total number of rounds remaining for the currently active type of ammunition.","The selector knob  and the menu button  () may provide access to the MENU mode. The dead-man switch must be inactive to enter the MENU mode. The selector knob  may be in any position desired, but while in ENGAGEMENT mode the touch screen may only operate when the dead-man switch is activated. ENGAGEMENT mode allows the operator to perform the normal operations necessary to carry out mission requirements. Activating the dead-man switch in any other mode will return the control unit to ENGAGEMENT mode.","The laser range finder may be actuated by pressing a \u201claze\u201d button on the joystick . The laser range finder may then return a range to the target. Both the range and the range finder pointer may be displayed on the visual display  and may remain on-screen for ninety seconds, or until the return range value is accepted.","The remote weapon system  may allow the human operator to define one or more No Fire Zones (NFZ). The remote weapon system  may also have one or more pre-programmed NFZ. The NFZ may be activated (implemented), or deactivated (unimplemented). The NFZ may be defined by the volume inside four coordinate pairs, where each coordinate pair includes an elevation coordinate and an azimuth coordinate. When the firearm  is pointing into an activated NFZ, the computer  may prevent the firearm  from firing, regardless of commands from the human operator.","A NFZ may be further defined by adding a third coordinate, representing range, to each of the four coordinate pairs. In this case, the computer  may prevent the firearm  from firing, regardless of human commands, when the ballistically corrected aiming point falls inside the NFZ.","Each NFZ may also have a buffer zone surrounding it on all sides. The buffer zone may be defined as, for example, an area ten degrees above and below, and five degrees left and right of, the NFZ. When in the ENGAGEMENT or READY modes, if the firearm  is aimed within the buffer zone around an activated NFZ, a warning light  may blink and a graphical and\/or text message warning the operator may appear in the video display .","In ENGAGEMENT mode, a \u201cvirtual\u201d button  may be used to deactivate the NFZ until the buffer zone is exited. The deactivate action may be performed on all NFZs in which the firearm  is presently aimed. An emergency override switch  may allow the user to deactivate all of the NFZ.","During normal operations in the ENGAGEMENT mode, a warning message may be displayed if the ammunition count reaches twenty rounds. A \u201cfast reload\u201d virtual button may be available for selection. Once \u201cfast reload\u201d is selected, the system  may load a new ammunition container  with the most rounds of a similar ammunition type.","When the lethality switch  is set to a status that is different from the currently loaded ammunition, the system  may be forced to enter the AMMUNITION SELECTION menu. The ammunition that will be available for selection may be displayed in green and may correspond to the current position of the lethality switch . Selecting a new type of ammunition may cause unloading of the current ammunition container  and loading of a newly selected ammunition container , followed by a return of the system  to the READY mode.","The PRE-MISSION MENU or mode may be selected by placing the ammo select\/pre-mission switch  in the pre-mission position and depressing the menu button . The armed\/safe switch  must be in the safe position and the dead-man switch in the joystick  must be in the \u201coff\u201d position. Actions in the PRE-MISSION mode may include entering the AMMUNITION RESUPPLY MENU, entering the SIGHT CONFIGURATION MENU, entering the NO FIRE ZONE\/MOTION INHIBIT SETUP MENU, entering the SYSTEM STATUS SCREEN, and entering UNLOAD AMMO.","Upon entrance to the PRE-MISSION MENU the AMMO RESUPPLY, SIGHT CONFIG, PRE-MISSION NFZ & MOTION INHIBIT, SYSTEM STATUS, and UNLOAD AMMO virtual buttons  may be available on the GUI . Upon selection of one of the menu options, the system  will enter the selected menu.","Depressing the UNLOAD AMMO button  may cause the system to remove the active ammunition container  from the firearm  weapon and return it to a storage assembly retention slot .","In the AMMO RESUPPLY mode, ammunition containers  may be loaded or unloaded from retention slots . Unknown ammunition containers  may be rejected and the user may be forced to remove them from the retention slot . Only one retention slot  may be accessed at a time. Upon entering the AMMO RESUPPLY mode, a visual image of all the retention slots  (for example, there may be fifteen slots ) may be displayed on the GUI . For each retention slot , the slot number, ammunition lethality, ammunition type, and number of rounds may be displayed.","In the AMMO RESUPPLY mode, control may be transferred to a keypad located on the weapon station . A human operator may open the keypad panel at the weapon station  to lockout the operator station  and transfer control to the weapon station . If the keypad panel at the weapon station  is closed at any time other than when the operator is instructed to do so, the control will transfer back to the operator station . If an unknown ammunition container  is loaded in a retention slot , the keypad at the weapon station  may display a warning message.","In the SIGHT CONFIGURATION mode, the bore sight offsets and zeroing offsets may be set. Zeroing offsets must be repeated for each ammunition type. Zero offsets are ammunition specific. Zeroing offsets may be saved for the currently selected ammunition type.","In the PRE-MISSION NO FIRE ZONE\/MI mode, one may add a new NFZ, delete a NFZ, activate or deactivate a NFZ, and add or delete a motion inhibit zone (MI). An MI is an area that the firearm  is prevented from entering. An MI may be defined, for example, when the firearm  is mounted on a vehicle, to prevent the barrel of the firearm  from contacting another piece of a equipment, such as an antenna or the main gun on a tank. An MI may be defined by the volume inside four coordinate pairs, where each coordinate pair includes an elevation coordinate and an azimuth coordinate. MIs may be entered by a human operator or pre-programmed into the computer . MIs may be overridden by a safety override switch.","In the SYSTEM STATUS SCREEN mode, one may view system status information and select detailed views of sensor information. Upon entrance to the SYSTEM STATUS SCREEN mode, the system status information may be displayed in list format. Each of the sensors , ,  may have an indicator for \u201cOK\u201d, \u201cDegraded\u201d, and \u201cError\u201d, respectively. Each sensor , ,  may be selected to obtain a display of the sensor's detailed information.","In the AMMUNITION SELECTION menu, one may select a different type of ammunition than is currently loaded. Only one type of ammunition may be selected at one time. Upon entrance to the AMMUNITION SELECTION menu, all available ammunition types may be displayed. The currently loaded ammunition may be selected as a default and shown as a depressed (lit) button . Once an ammunition selection is confirmed, the ammunition container  having the most rounds will be loaded into the firearm .","After the initial set-up, the remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system  provides complete remote operation of an externally-powered firearm . The ammunition storage and transport system  may reload the firearm  multiple times by switching the ammunition containers . The ammunition storage and transport system  may switch ammunition types, if desired. Because firearm  is externally-powered, a hostile party may have great difficulty in removing firearm  from weapon station  and using firearm  manually. A variable speed motor  may allow infinite adjustment of the firing rate of firearm .","The remotely-operable, automatically-reloadable weapon system has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments. However, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 6(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 7(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 8(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 9(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 10(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 11(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 12(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 13(","FIGS. 12("],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 14(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 15(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 16(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 17(","FIGS. 16("],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIGS. 18(","FIGS. 16("],"i":["a","b","a","b"],"b":"18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 19(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 30"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
