---
title: Automated process for manufacturing radiation filters for radiation treatment machines including manufacture scheduling
abstract: Automating the process for providing a radiation filter is based on different software programs executed by a computer system. The software programs include customer interface software, tool path generation software and manufacture scheduling software. Each software program performs a specific function for automating the process. The manufacture scheduling software determines available tooling machines to manufacture the radiation filter based on the generated tool path from a plurality of tooling machines, and selects one of the available tooling machines based on availability for manufacture of the radiation filter. The manufactured radiation filter is shipped, and the customer is then invoiced for the order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155773&OS=08155773&RS=08155773
owner: .Decimal, Inc.
number: 08155773
owner_city: Sanford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090518
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/054,250, filed May 19, 2008, and U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/467,629, filed May 18, 2009, the entire content of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates to the field of radiation therapy, and in particular, to the process of providing patient specific radiation filters used in radiation treatment machines.","Intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is a treatment method for cancer patients requiring radiation treatment. IMRT is an extremely precise method of treatment delivery where the radiation dose conforms to the target and avoids the surrounding critical structures. Rather than having a single large radiation beam pass through the body, with IMRT the treatment is delivered from various angles and the intensity of the radiation beam is varied across the treatment area.","The radiation is effectively broken up into thousands of tiny pencil-thin radiation beams. With millimeter accuracy, these beams enter the body from many angles and intersect on the cancer. This results in a high radiation dosage to the tumor and a lower radiation dose to the surrounding healthy tissues.","One method for modulating the intensity of the radiation beam is based on the use of a radiation filter, which is also known as a compensator. Each radiation filter is specifically designed for a patient.","A patient specific radiation filter is machined from a solid piece of material, which is also referred to as a radiation filter blank. Each radiation filter is mounted to the radiation therapy machine so that it is directly in the path of the radiation beam generated by the machine. The unique three-dimensional geometry of each machined radiation filter provides the conformal radiation dose distributions required by the cancer patient.","Since each patient specific radiation filter is individually machined from a radiation filter blank, it cannot be reused on other cancer patients. The radiation filter may be machined in-house by a radiation treatment center, or alternatively, ordered from an outside machine shop. The outside machine shop will also be referred to herein as the supplier.","Once an order is received by an outside machine shop, a number of information related tasks need to be performed before a radiation filter blank is actually machined into a radiation filter. For example, modeling and programming functions need to be determined. In addition, for each radiation filter machined, it needs to be properly labeled and verified for accuracy. Consequently, each order for a radiation filter requires a considerable amount of employee intervention before the filter is actually packaged and shipped.","One example of reducing the amount of employee intervention for an outside machine shop providing a patient specific radiation filter is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,80,871. The '871 patent is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and is assigned to the current assignee of the present invention. The '871 patent discloses a method for providing a patient specific radiation filter for a radiation treatment machine based on receiving via e-mail design data for the radiation filter, and comparing the received design data to a radiation filter blank database for selecting a radiation filter blank compatible with the radiation treatment machine from a plurality of radiation filter blanks. The method further includes defining tooling instructions for the selected radiation filter blank, and programming a tooling machine based upon the defined tooling instructions. The programmed tooling machine is operated for machining the selected radiation filter blank into the radiation filter. While the '871 patent offers improvements in providing patient specific radiation filters, there is still a need to further improve the process.","In view of the foregoing background, it is therefore an object of the present invention to improve the process of manufacturing radiation filters for radiation treatment machines.","This and other objects, features, and advantages in accordance with the present invention are provided by a computer-implemented method for manufacturing a radiation filter for a radiation treatment machine using a computer-implemented system comprising a processor and a display operatively coupled to the processor. The method may comprise operating the processor to execute customer interface software for receiving a customer file for the radiation filter to be manufactured, with the customer file including design data.","Tool path generation software may be executed by the processor for generating a tool path based on the design data for the radiation filter to be manufactured, with the tool path defining instructions to operate a tooling machine. Manufacture scheduling software may be executed by the processor to determine available tooling machines to manufacture the radiation filter based on the generated tool path from a plurality of tooling machines, and select one of the available tooling machines based on availability for manufacture of the radiation filter. The method may further comprise operating the display to display the plurality of tooling machines including the available tooling machines.","The manufacture scheduling software may determine the available tooling machine in real-time. The computer-implemented system may communicate with the plurality of tooling machines, and at least a portion of the tooling machines are in different physical locations.","The radiation filter to be manufactured may have a size requirement associated therewith, and wherein determining available tooling machines from the plurality of tooling machines may be based on tooling machines compatible with the size requirement. Similarly, the radiation filter to be manufactured may have a required number of axis associated therewith to be machined, and wherein determining available tooling machines from the plurality of tooling machines may be based on tooling machines compatible with machining the required number of axis. Similarly, the radiation filter may be manufactured out of a particular material, and wherein determining available tooling machines from the plurality of tooling machines may be based on tooling machines compatible with the particular type of material.","Instead of one radiation filter to be manufactured, there may be a plurality of radiation filters to be manufactured, and wherein the selected tooling machine may manufacture the plurality of radiation filters as a batch order. In addition, the manufacture scheduling software may determine placement within the selected tooling machine of the plurality of radiation filters to be manufactured.","The manufacture scheduling software may perform quality control measurements after the radiation filter has been manufactured. In addition, the manufacture scheduling software may track maintenance requirements for the plurality of tooling machines.","The customer file may be provided by a customer, wherein the customer interface software may then import the customer file into a database so that the customer may then remotely access the database to verify that the customer file was received. The processor may further execute tracking software to track progress of the radiation filter being manufactured based on the customer file, and may store the tracked progress in the database. The customer may then remotely accesses the database to view progress on the manufacture of the radiation filter.","Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a computer system comprising a processor, and a display operatively coupled to the processor to execute that above described software.","The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.","Referring initially to , the illustrated radiation filter  is patient specific and is machined from a solid piece of material. This solid piece of material may be aluminum or brass, for example. The design data for the radiation filter  is provided to the supplier as a data file.","Although the radiation filter  is being discussed with respect to IMRT, the disclosed process for manufacturing a radiation filter also applies to other types of therapy, including proton therapy and electron therapy. Such radiation filters would be machined from a solid piece of material, such as plastic (e.g., acrylic), wax, brass and cerrobend\u00ae.","As discussed above, measurement technology at a customer's radiation treatment planning center can determine precise three-dimensional coordinates for a cancerous tumor along with precise locations and densities for the healthy bone and tissue surrounding it. This design data makes it possible to construct a radiation filter  that uses variations in the thickness of the metal to vary the intensity of the radiation from a radiation treatment machine, thus producing a radiation field conforming to the topography of the patient.","Referring now to , a top-level flow chart illustrating the process for providing a radiation filter  will now be discussed. From the start (Block ), a customer's file for a radiation filter order is imported to a database at Block , a tool path for the radiation filter  is generated at Block , and the radiation filter  is manufactured at Block . The process further includes shipping the manufactured radiation filter at Block , and invoicing the customer at Block . The process ends at Block .","Automating the process for providing a radiation filter  is based on a number of different software programs that interface a database , as illustrated in . The software programs include customer interface software , tool path generation software , manufacture scheduling software , and tracking software . Each software program performs a specific function. Collectively, the software programs are used to automate the process of providing a radiation filter .","A corresponding computer system  executing the different software programs is illustrated in FIG, . The computer-implemented system  comprises a processor  configured to execute the customer interface software , the tool path generation software , the manufacture scheduling software  and the tracking software . The database  is provided within via a memory . The memory  is illustrated separate from the processor , although in other configurations the memory may be within the processor. As readily appreciated by those skilled in the art, the computer system  may be configured as a server, for example. A display  is operatively coupled to the processor .","The computer-implemented system  interfaces the Internet  so radiation filter orders may be submitted by a customer computing device . The customer computing device  allows a customer to remotely place an order for a radiation filter , as well as remotely track the status of the radiation filter . In addition, the computer system  communicates with a plurality of tooling machines . As will be described in greater detail below, the tooling machines  may be collocated in a physical location, or the tooling machines  may be located in different physical locations.","The customer interface software  allows the customer computing device  to import a customer file into the database . The customer may be a radiation treatment facility, for example, and the customer file includes the design data for the radiation filter  to be manufactured. After a radiation filter order has been received by the database , an order received flag is set within the database .","The tool path generation software  detects that an order received flag has been set. In response to the order received flag, the tool path generation software  generates a tool path for the radiation filter  to be manufactured. The generated tool path defines the tools needed by a tooling machine for manufacturing the radiation filter , as well as the instructions to operate the tooling machine. Once the tool path has been generated, the information is stored in the database . A tool path generation flag is set based on the generated tool path. Even though generation of the tool path is automated, the tool path may still be inspected by an engineer.","The manufacture scheduling software  detects that the tool path generation flag has been set. The manufacture scheduling software  determines available tooling machines that can be used in the manufacture of the radiation filter . All of the possible tooling machines  are examined in order to determine which ones are available to manufacture the radiation filter . Availability of a tooling machine may be based on compatibility of the tooling machine being able to manufacture a particular radiation filter .","Selection or determination of the available tooling machines depends on a number of different factors. For example, selection of the available tooling machines depends on the material to be used in the manufacture of the radiation filter , as well as the size of the radiation filter . Also for consideration in selection of the available tooling machines is the required number of axis to be machined. For example, a required number of axis to be machined may be 3, 5 or 7-axis, wherein certain tooling machines are able to do 5 or 7-axis machining.","The manufacture scheduling software  determine available tooling machines to manufacture the radiation filter  based on the generated tool path from a plurality of tooling machines, and selects one of the available tooling machines based on availability for manufacture of the radiation filter . As will be discussed in greater detail below, the plurality of tooling machines including the available tooling machines is displayed via display . Once the radiation filter  has been manufactured and inspected, a manufactured flag is set in the database .","The tracking software  reads the information stored in the database . This allows the tracking software  to display on a screen the status of each radiation filter order, as well as showing the progress of the radiation filter order, as will be discussed in greater detail below. The tracking software  also displays communications from the customer, and records if action has been taken in response to the communications.","The display screens for the customer interface software  will now be discussed in reference to . When a customer wants to place an order for one or more radiation filters , the customer logs into a specific customer web site. For example, a display screen  allows the customer to enter a username  and a password , as illustrated in . The illustrated customer web site is referred to as .decimal\u00ae Direct.","Once the customer is logged into the computer-implemented system , the customer interface software  provides a display screen  that allows the customer to upload one or more files containing the design data for the radiation filters  to be ordered. Typically, there is a separate file for each radiation filter  being ordered. Location of the file to be uploaded is provided via a browse prompt  on display screen . Once a desired file is located, it is highlighted so that it can be added to field . If more than one radiation filter  is being ordered, then the customer continues to highlight the other corresponding files so that they are also added to field  as a batch order.","Once all of the desired files are in field  the customer agrees to the terms and conditions  of the order. At this point, a \u201cplace order\u201d icon will appear for selection by the customer. Once the customer places the order, the files are imported to the database , which is typically at the supplier's location. The order is also displayed for the customer in display screen , as illustrated in . The supplier processes the received order. If more than one file is uploaded, then all of the radiation filters  corresponding to the uploaded files will be ordered as a batch.","An advantage of the customer interface software  is that the customer can also track the status of their order. For example, by selecting field  in display screen , the customer can verify that the order was received, as well as the status of the order. For example, the illustrated customer files are all in engineering.","The customer interface software  allows the customer to remotely access a limited portion of the supplier's tracking software , which is referred to herein as .decimal\u00ae Tracking. The customer interface software  limits access to their order and not to other customers' orders, as readily appreciated by those skilled in the art.","Another advantage of the customer interface software  is that a customer can also view previous orders that they have placed. In other words, the customer is able to obtain a historical review from the database  of their previous radiation filter orders. Information such as order\/delivery dates, quantity and size of radiation filters that were ordered, as well as costs, etc. may be obtained.","When the customer's file is imported into the database , the customer interface software  also checks for accuracy of the format of the file. For example, the file is preferably in an ascii format with X,Y,Z coordinates as compared to a fluency map. Beam divergence correction is also created if needed.","Although not illustrated, a create message icon is also available for the customer if a communication link is needed between the customer and the supplier. As noted above, a received order flag is set in the database  if the corresponding file has been correctly imported.","In response to detecting the received order flag being set in the database , the tool path generation software  generates a tool path for the radiation filter  to be manufactured. The tool path generation software  reads information from the imported customer file and selects the diameter and thickness of a radiation filter blank, as well as the type of material to be used to fill the order.","More particularly, the tool path generation software  automates generation of the tool path by applying different rules for different basic parts, and by associating cutting strategies with the geometry and surface of each part. In other words, the different tools that are needed to machine specific surfaces for each radiation filer  are identified, and the corresponding CNC codes to be used by a tooling machine are also generated. The tools that are needed and the order in which they are to be used define the tool path for the radiation filer  to be manufactured.","In addition to generating the tool path, the tool path generation software  enhances the quality of the radiation filter  by determining regions that are out of tolerance. The tool path generation software  identifies such regions for refinement. Moreover, the tool path generation software  also identifies if 5-axis or 7-axis machining is needed. The use of 5-axis or 7-axis corresponds to moving the radiation filter blank in order to create an axis, such as with undercutting a particular surface area of the radiation filter blank.","One example of the tool path generation software  is based on using an application programming interface (API) through Surfcam\u00ae software provided by Surfware, Inc. An ascii file for a received order is read from the database , and is imported into Surfcam\u00ae. Surfaces for the radiation filter are created from X,Y,Z points. The various cutting strategies are associated with the geometry and surfaces of the radiation filter . Software other than Surfcam\u00ae may be used for the tool path generation software , as readily appreciated by those skilled in the art.","The generated tool path is written back to the database , and a corresponding tool path generation flag is set. Time stamps on starting and stopping of the tool path generation software  are also written to the database . This allows the tracking software  to status the progress of the tool path generation software .","Even though generation of the tool path is automated, the tool path may still be inspected by an engineer. Inspection may be based on the engineer viewing a simulation of the radiation filter  as would be produced by the generated tool path. The simulated radiation filter  allows the engineer to identify if there are any regions or surfaces that are out of tolerance, as well as verifying that there are no gouges in the design.","Verification of the tooling may be performed based on a color coding scheme. For example, red lines in the simulated radiation filter  may be used to indicate surfaces that are out of tolerance. The engineer then instructs the tool path generation software  to refine the tool path to remove the red lines. Other colored lines, such as green for example, indicate that the surfaces may be within tolerance, but could still use some minor adjusting or refinement. Alternatively, verification of the tooling may be performed by numerical methods, as readily appreciated by those skilled in the art. Verification of the generated tool path is recorded in the database .","The manufacture scheduling software  notes the tool path generation flag has been set. The manufacture scheduling software  is also referred to herein as resource utilization scheduling software (RUSS). The manufacture scheduling software  interacts with the tooling machines in real machine time. In other words, each tooling machine communicates with the computer-implemented system . One of the display screens  for the manufacture scheduling software  is illustrated in .","Referring now to the flowchart  illustrated in , a method for manufacturing a radiation filter  for a radiation treatment machine using a computer system  will now be discussed, particularly with respect to manufacture scheduling. From the start (Block ), the method comprises operating the processor  at Block  to execute the customer interface software  for receiving a customer file for a radiation filter  to be manufactured. The customer file includes design data for the radiation filter . The tool path generation software  is executed by the processor  at Block  for generating a tool path based on the design data for the radiation filter  to be manufactured. The tool path defines instructions to operate a tooling machine.","The method further comprises operating the processor  at Block  to execute the manufacture scheduling software  to determine available tooling machines to manufacture the radiation filter  based on the generated tool path from a plurality of tooling machines. The processor  continues executing the manufacture scheduling software  at Block  to select one of the available tooling machines based on availability for manufacture of the radiation filter . The plurality of tooling machines  including the available tooling machines are displayed at Block  via display , and as illustrated in  in field . The method ends at Block .","As noted above, availability of a tooling machine depends on a number of factors. These factors include, for example, compatibility of the tooling machines to support a size requirement of the radiation filter , as well as compatibility of the tooling machines to support a required number of axis to be machined by the tooling machines. Another factor is the tooling machines being compatible with a particular type of material that the radiation filter  is to be manufactured from.","The manufacture scheduling software  allows manual scheduling of the radiation filters  for multiple manufacturing locations. Alternatively, the scheduling may be automatic for multiple locations, as readily appreciated by those skilled in the art. The manufacturing locations of the tooling machines may be in the same general physical location. Alternatively, the manufacturing locations of the tooling machines may be in different physical locations, such as in different cities, for example.","As illustrated in , field  illustrates radiation filter orders that have not been assigned to a tooling machine for manufacture. Field  illustrates where the unassigned jobs could be assigned to a tooling machine. The unassigned jobs could be assigned in Sanford or Louisville, for example. Even though these two cities are illustrated, actual tooling machine locations may be anywhere in the world. Depending on machine availability, and depending on whether or not the radiation filters  to be manufactured are a rush order, a tooling machine will be selected to best meet these needs.","When an unassigned job is highlighted in field , the manufacture scheduling software  takes into account what material the radiation filter  is to be machined from, as well as the required axis (e.g., 3, 5 or 7-axis, for example), and determines which of the tooling machines in field  are available, i.e., are capable of manufacturing the radiation filter , and selects one of the tooling machines. The current queue or status of the tooling machines in use is illustrated in field . This also affects which one of the available tooling machines is to be selected. When manually assigned, the operator will drag and drop each unassigned job to one of the available tooling machines in field .","Tab  illustrates how orders can be batched together. For example, tooling machine C is scheduled to manufacture two radiation filters , which is estimated to be completed at time 9:43. Afterwards, at time 11:10, another radiation filter  is scheduled to be completed.","Field  illustrates placement of the radiation filter blanks in the tooling machine. For the two radiation filters  being manufactured, which are to be completed at time 9:43, their location in the tooling machine C is illustrated in field . In other words, each tooling machine is capable of keeping together batch orders.","The manufacture scheduling software  writes to the database  as jobs are being assigned to various tooling machines. Corresponding flags are set. When a tooling machine has completed manufacture of a radiation filter , certain quality control measurements are made. After verification of the quality control measurements, a corresponding flag is then set in the database . When problems arise, the manufacture scheduling software  logs the problems in the database . The manufacture scheduling software  also keeps track of tooling machine maintenance. When a machine is being serviced, it generally goes offline.","The display screens for the tracking software  will now be discussed in reference to . The tracking software  advantageously displays the status of each order, as well as showing the progress of the different portions of the process. The tracking software  is also referred to as .decimal\u00ae Tracking.","To access the tracking software , the supplier logs into the web-based system to view all radiation filter order. A display screen  allows the supplier to enter a username  and a password , as illustrated in . Display screen  is then accessed, as illustrated in . A customer is also able to log into the web-based system, but is only able to view their specific radiation filter orders.","In display screen , the tracking software  allows the supplier to select an Engineering tab , a Manufacturing tab , a Shipping tab  and an Invoicing tab . Display screen  corresponds to the Engineering tab . When a particular order has been uploaded into the database  and is ready to be processed, it appears in the order received block . As discussed above, tool path generation software  is used to generate the tool path for the received order. The start and finish times of application of the tool path software to the file data is recorded in blocks  and .","Determination by the tool path generation software  of the diameter of the radiation filter blank, the thickness of the radiation filter blank as well as the type of material to be used for the radiation filter are recorded in fields ,  and .","The Second Operation field  corresponds to whether or not the sides of the radiation filter blank need to be adjusted to fit its intended radiation therapy machine. As noted above, even though the tool path is generated by the tool path generation software , the supplier has the option of manually verifying the generated tool path, as indicated by fields . If the tool path generation software determined that 5-axis or 7-axis tooling is needed, this is indicated in field . The use of 5-axis or 7-axis corresponds to rotating the radiation filter blank in order to create an axis, such as with undercutting a particular surface area of the radiation filter blank.","The status of the jobs to be processed is provided in field . In the status column , the four circles  in each row correspond to engineering, manufacturing, shipping and invoicing milestones. When one of these milestones has been completed, the corresponding circle is shaded.","Display screen  corresponds to the manufacturing tab , as illustrated in . The additional manufacturing information provided in this screen includes the CNC machine in field  used to manufacture the radiation filter , and the scheduler in field  who assigned the part to the tooling machine. The receiving number of the radiation filter  is provided in field . The tooling operator who loaded the radiation filer blank into the tooling machine is provided in field . Quality control data is provided in field . The tooling operator who unloaded the radiation filer blank from the tooling machine is provided in field . Field  indicates that the manufactured radiation filter  has been cleaned, inspected and its threads tested.","Display screen  corresponds to the shipping tab , as illustrated in . Fields ,  indicates who packaged the part and who verified the packaged part. The shipping company used to ship the part is provided in field , and the corresponding tracking number is provided in field . The person who verified the label for the package to be shipped is provided in field .","Display screen  corresponds to the invoicing tab , as illustrated in . The information provided in this screen includes the customer number in field , and a description of the order is provided in field . The billing information is provided in field .","The tracking software  advantageously reads information from the database . This allows the status of the parts to be displayed, show progress of the process, and display communications from the customer and records if action has been taken. The tracking software  also advantageously writes information to the database. This allows the computer-implemented system  to be interactive with the customers and the tooling machine , and allows messages to be sent to the customers.","Referring now to the flowchart  illustrated in , a method for manufacturing a radiation filter  for a radiation treatment machine using a computer-implemented system  will now be discussed, particularly with respect to tracking progress thereof. From the start (Block ), the method comprises operating the processor  at Block  to execute the customer interface software  for importing into a database  a customer file for the radiation filter  to be manufactured and setting a corresponding flag in the database after importation of the customer file. The customer file includes design data for the radiation filter . The tool path generation software  is executed by the processor  at Block  for generating a tool path based on the design data for the radiation filter  to be manufactured and setting a corresponding flag in the database  after generation of the tool path. The tool path defines instructions to operate a tooling machine.","The method further comprises operating the processor  at Block  to execute the manufacture scheduling software  to schedule a tooling machine to manufacture the radiation filter  and setting a corresponding flag in the database  after manufacturer of the radiation filter. The processor  then executes the tracking software at Block  for tracking progress on manufacture of the radiation filter  based on the different corresponding flags set in the database . The tracked progress on the manufacture of the radiation filter  is displayed at Block  via the display , and as illustrated in display screens , ,  and  as provided in . The method ends at Block .","The illustrated process for manufacturing patient specific radiation filters  equally applies to other types of patent specific items, such as hip and knee replacements, for example. The design data for the patent specific item would be received from a customer and imported into a database, and then processed as discussed above. Moreover, as readily appreciated by those skilled in the art, the above described automation process is applicable to any type of item that is machined based on customer generated design data.","In addition, other features relating to an automated process for manufacturing radiation filters for radiation treatment machines is disclosed in copending patent application filed concurrently herewith and assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is entitled AUTOMATED PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING RADIATION FILTERS FOR RADIATION TREATMENT MACHINES INCLUDING TRACKING THEREOF, application Ser. No. 12\/467,629 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 10-14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
