---
title: Method and system for semantic analysis of unstructured data
abstract: A method and system for semantically analyzing unstructured data in a customer feedback is provided. The method includes extracting data related to customer feedback from one or more input sources. The method further includes assigning weights to the one or more input sources and extracting relevant text from the feedback data. Further, sentences are detected from the customer feedback and are annotated. Thereafter, relevant adjectives are determined and are associated with sentence types. A rating is calculated for each sentence of the relevant text and output is provided in a pre-determined format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092789&OS=09092789&RS=09092789
owner: Infosys Limited
number: 09092789
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20090403
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to data mining. More particularly, the present invention provides for semantic analysis of unstructured data, such as customer feedback of a product or service.","Organizations offering products and services to customers rely on customer feedback to improve quality of products or services. In one of the customary methods to obtain customer feedback, customers visiting a retail store of a company or firm are provided with a customer feedback form and their feedback is solicited on the form. The feedback received on the form is read by designated employees of the organization to understand the quality of feedback and its applicability in improving the products and services.","With the advent of technology and the Internet, customers prefer to buy products and services while being at home. Though this leads to ease of operations and more customer satisfaction, customer feedback is not obtained directly. One of the techniques to counter this problem includes providing a comments section on a website to obtain the feedback. The process of understanding the comments provided by customers is very cumbersome and painstaking.","A commonly used technique for acquiring customer feedback includes asking customers to rank products and services on offer, on a certain scale, in addition to obtaining textual feedback. Another technique existing in the art for obtaining customer feedback includes parsing through textual feedback and comparing the adjectives describing the products and services with a repository of adjectives to ascertain the essence of the feedback. However, words in English language have multiple usages and meanings with respect to their use as per various contexts. This makes the process of comparing adjectives used by a customer with stored adjectives, an inefficient process.","Consequently, there is need for a method and system that can interpret accurate meaning of feedback provided by customers in order to help organizations to improve their products and services.","A method and system for semantically analyzing unstructured data is provided. In an embodiment of the present invention, the unstructured data is data related to customer feedback for a product or service.","In various embodiments of the present invention, the system includes a data extraction module configured to extract and refine unstructured data. Further, the system includes an information extraction module configured to detect sentences from the refined data and analyze the refined data in order to assign a rating to individual sentences of the customer feedback. The system also includes an information visualization module configured to render results of the semantic analysis of the customer feedback.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the data extraction module comprises a data source crawler for traversing through digital sources for obtaining text related to customer feedback, and a content extractor and formatter for stripping out irrelevant data. The system stores refined data in a production database.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the information extraction module comprises a UIMA annotation engine configured to detect sentences and annotate comments to the relevant text corresponding to a product and open NLP taggers configured to tag information to the relevant text for identifying parts of speech. Further, the system includes a grammar handler configured to determine the meaning of words used in the relevant text and a corpus of text models configured to provide a structured set of texts to the grammar handler. Further, the system includes a rating module configured to calculate rating of each comment of the customer feedback using a rating model.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the information visualization module comprises a dashboard integrated with the information extraction module and configured to display output of the calculation of ratings in a graphical format and a third party applications module integrated with the information extraction module and configured to interface with external applications to provide output of the calculation of ratings in at least one of an XML and RDF format. Further, the system includes Direct API calls module configured to provide analytical feeds to external applications, wherein the external applications conform to defined input and output message schemas.","In various embodiments of the present invention, the method includes searching the internet, intranet or any other source of data to find relevant documents. The source of data could be emails, news feeds, structured databases, files, customer call records or other sources of customer generated content such as blogs, discussion forums and the like. Further, the method includes assigning and varying weights of the data sources in terms of their importance, as perceived by the business. In an embodiment of the present invention, the parameters driving weight calculation are business alliance and proximity factor, frequency, of data updates, historical error factor, data size, number of concurrent system\/user accesses. The relevant documents are defined as the documents have texts or patterns of texts deemed relevant by the business and as configured in the system.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the relevant text is cleansed and saved on a staging database. Further, sentences are detected from the relevant text and the relevant text is annotated and tagged using Natural Language Techniques. Furthermore, grammar rules, patterns, are applied to discover sentiments and\/or opinions expressed in the relevant text.","In various embodiments of the present invention, an extensible integrated generic rating algorithm to determine value of language sentiments (positive, negative, neutral etc.) or business sentiments (any business defined concept) as expressed in the content, is used. Finally, the method includes the step of displaying the rating obtained in the form of graphs, charts, Extensible Markup language (XML) feeds and other object-oriented views.","A system and method for semantic analysis of unstructured data is provided. The present invention is more specifically directed towards analyzing customer feedback of products or services illustrated as unstructured data. An exemplary scenario in which the present invention may be implemented is customer review comments in data sources, such as, emails, news feeds, structured databases, files, customer call records or other source of customer generated content such as blogs, discussion forums etc.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the system and method disclosed provides extracting unstructured data from input sources by assigning and varying weights of the data sources in terms of their importance as perceived by business requirements.","In another embodiment of the present invention, the system and method disclosed provides cleansing the data, extracting relevant sentences from the data, annotating and tagging the data and calculating a rating for each sentence of the customer feedback.","In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the system and method disclosed provides displaying the output of the calculated ratings. In an example the output is displayed in a graphical format. In another example the output is provided to a third party application in a suitable format, such as object oriented views.","Hence, the present invention enables a time-efficient software design of a business process implementation. The present invention also enables changes in the software design in the requirements phase based on inputs from the stakeholders.","The disclosure is provided in order to enable a person having ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention. Exemplary embodiments herein are provided only for illustrative purposes and various modifications will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The terminology and phraseology used herein is for the purpose of describing exemplary embodiments and should not be considered limiting. Thus, the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives, modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. For purpose of clarity, details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have been briefly described or omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.","The present invention would now be discussed in context of embodiments as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","208","210","212","214"]},"The data services layer  deals with data collection and data formatting. It includes software components for extracting data from input sources . In various embodiments of the present invention, the input sources  include sources of data related to customer feedback, such as, digital sources, the internet, company databases internal websites, fileservers, emails and news feeds. For example, the input sources  include emails, news feeds, structured databases, files, customer call records or other sources of customer generated content such as blogs, discussion forums and the like. The domain layer  includes a corpus of text models, various rules\/patterns and components for creating\/reading applicable domain ontologies.","The engine layer  includes the core engine components for processing the data extracted from the input sources  and interpreting the data to ascertain customer opinion regarding a product or service. The presentation layer  is used for rendering the system output in various modes, such as, graphs in a dashboard, integrated mode with appropriate third party applications using XML or Resource Description Framework (RDF) outputs and direct API level calls from other applications. The infrastructure services layer  provides the supporting infrastructure needed to meet various functional and non-functional requirements for processing the extracted data in order to determine the customer feedback, such as caching, notification, scheduling, logging, session management, security, multilingualism, and auditing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","304","306"]},"The data extraction module  is a part of the data services layer  (). The data extraction module  includes a data source crawler , a content extractor , a content formatter , a staging database , a production database , a content stager , a job scheduler , and data access objects . The data source crawler  is an automated program that traverses through digital sources, for example, but not limited to, Internet, organization databases, internal websites, fileservers, emails, news feeds to obtain text related to customer feedback. In an embodiment of the present invention, the crawled information is about customer feedbacks, directly obtained from various above indicated data sources or from market research agencies, analyst reports etc. The feedbacks are on the products and\/or services offered by a business. In an example, the data source crawler  downloads web pages and accesses them methodically to extract data. In an embodiment of the present invention, the data source crawler  is a multiple protocol conformant software component that crawls for general information about the products and services of a company on the Internet, company repositories, and internal websites. Examples of the protocols include Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP), Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), File Transfer Protocol (FTP) and the like. In an example, the web crawler can also crawl for information for a specific product for a company. The web crawler collects text and metadata information stored on web pages displayed in various formats of markup languages such as, HTML, XML and the like. After the collection of data, the content extractor  and the content formatter  strips out the irrelevant data and extracts text relevant to the customer feedback. Thereafter, the relevant text is stored by the content stager  in the staging database  for more refinement as per business requirements. In an embodiment of the present invention, the staging database  is a database in which data is stored for data cleansing. Data cleansing includes removing, deleting or modifying corrupted data for later use. Upon data refinement and cleansing, the refined data is replicated onto the production database .","Refined data in the production database  is accessible to any user or system. In an embodiment of the present invention, the refined data is accessed by a web server through the data access objects . In an embodiment, the web server hosts the Information Extraction Module . In an embodiment of the present invention, the data extraction module implements a method to assign numeric weights on the refined data sources in terms of the perceived business importance attributed to them. The parameters driving the weight assignment methods are business alliance and proximity factor, frequency of data updates, historical error factor, data size, number of concurrent system or user accesses. For example, news feed data source has weights of 0.7, 1.0, 0.8, 1.0, 0.9 on business alliance and proximity factor, frequency of data updates, historical error factor, data size, number of concurrent system or user accesses respectively; while external blogs may have weights as 0.2, 0.4, 0.2, 0.6, 0.2 similarly. These weight assignments are done thorough a matrix table and the values are influenced by business requirements, credibility factors and any other applicable situations. Regression techniques are applied over time to adjust for data errors, thus resulting in further update of the matrix table.","In various embodiments of the present invention, the data refined in the data extraction module  is passed on to the information extraction module . The information extraction module  includes an Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) Annotation Engine , a Grammar Handler , open Natural Language Processing (NLP) Tagger , a Rating Handler  and a Corpus of Text Models . Data imported into the Information Extraction Module  is text relevant to customer feedback provided for a product or service. This data is analyzed by the UIMA Annotation Engine  which breaks up all the sentences in the data. The UIMA Annotation Engine  uses sentence detection techniques to identify the type of the sentence, such as, interrogative, affirmative, negative, and the like. The relevant sentences are determined by a domain handler that works in conjunction with the UIMA Annotation Engine  by checking occurrences of business concepts and related product-specific concepts. The domain handler is part of the domain layer and it includes software components for reading, identifying and associating product-specific domain ontologies. For example, in the customer feedback illustrated in , a domain handler reads relevant text and obtains vital information about technical and product-specific features of a camera. The UIMA Annotation Engine  retrieves comments about the \u201cNoise\u201d and \u201cLCD\u201d features of the camera. Here camera is the business concept and \u201cNoise\u201d and \u201cLCD\u201d are related product-specific concepts.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the UIMA Annotation Engine  divides the sentences from a customer feedback that are relevant to a product into tokens of words. Each token of words is then tagged by the open NLP Tagger  for determining its part of speech. For example, \u201cNokia\u201d is a NNP tag i.e. noun phrase, \u201chas\u201d is a VB tag i.e. a verb etc. The UIMA Annotation Engine  then annotates comments to a specific product Annotation is looking for a pattern of words\/alphabets and then marking them in the given text, generally following a look-up approach. Tagging is a technique where individual words are tagged in the given test by referring to a lexicon, generally using a machine learning approach. Thereafter, the grammar handler  and the corpus of text models  are used to understand the sentiments expressed in the customer feedback. The grammar handler  is a software component containing grammatical rules and linguistic patterns that are used to determine the meaning of words as used in the feedback sentences. A corpus of text models is a software module containing numerous structured set of texts. In an embodiment of the present invention, the corpus of text models  includes models obtained from existing popular sources, for example, the Wall Street Journal and the Brown corpus. In another embodiment of the present invention, the corpus of text models include domain-based corpus created by the Information Extraction Module . Creating a domain-based corpus includes defining business-specific domain metadata from sample customer feedback, and creating, training, and testing the domain-based corpus using test datasets. The grammar handler  extracts adjectives from sentences of a customer feedback. Extraction of adjectives from exemplary test case sentences of product review is illustrated in conjunction with the description of . The rating handler  rates the words extracted by the grammar handler to obtain a rating for each comment provided by the customer. The ratings are provided based on a rating model as described in conjunction with the description of . In some cases, pre-rated reviews of a product might be provided on websites. In an embodiment of the present invention, the Information Extraction Module  may include a pre-rating handler that extracts relevant information from pre-rated reviews of the product or service on the websites. The relevant information includes ratings provided on such websites by product reviewers. In various embodiments of the present invention, content from the rating handler  is aggregated with rating from a pre-rating handler to obtain an overall rating for each feature of the product. Finally, the output is presented to a user in different modes.","The Information Visualization Module  includes software modules for rendering the results of semantic analysis of customer feedback. In an embodiment of the present invention, the Information Visualization Module  includes the software modules: a dashboard , third party applications  and Direct Application Programming Interface (API) calls . The dashboard  defines various analysis criteria around business concepts, such as, products, features, themes etc. These analysis criteria are then run over the business data and graphs\/charts and reports are displayed to a system user.  illustrates screenshots of exemplary results displayed on the dashboard , in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.","The software module, Third Party Applications , includes applications external to the system  that are used by the system  for data visualizations. In an embodiment of the present invention, an application takes XML or RDF feeds and then shows them in a refined, often object-oriented views. An example of such a third party application is a Siderean Navigator. A third party application receives a ready XML\/RDF output from the Information Extraction Module .","In various embodiments of the present invention, the Information Visualization Module  includes a module \u201cDirect Application Programming Interface (API) calls\u201d , which contains API's through which applications can demand analytical feeds directly at the application level provided they conform to defined input and output message schemas.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3","FIG. 6"]},"In an embodiment of the present invention, referring to , the first sentence \u201cNokia has nice robust phones for Indian market\u201d has two adjectives \u2018nice\u2019 and \u2018robust\u2019. The rating handler rates these words as per the rating mechanism described above. The word \u2018nice\u2019 is rated as an extremely positive attribute by the rating handler and hence gets a weight of \u2018+2\u2019, whereas the word \u2018robust\u2019 is rated as a positive attribute and gets a weight of \u2018+1\u2019. The collective rating of the first sentence then becomes +3. Only relevant adjectives are picked up for consideration and their semantics are checked as well using the grammar handler. For example, the last entry \u2018Sentence with Negation\u2019 has an adjective \u2018efficient\u2019 but it is followed by negation \u2018Not\u2019. So \u2018efficient\u2019 is taken in a negative context here and given a rating of \u2018\u22121\u2019.","In another embodiment of the present invention, an API and a user interface is provided to create domain based corpus using business supplied domain data and applicable ontologies. Relevant text is extracted using the domain based corpus and sentiment classification is done using a combination of the weights assigned by the rating handler and a search technique based on standard indexing and search libraries such as, Apache Lucene.","In yet another embodiment of the present invention, a custom corpus is created using an applicable business concept. For example, if \u2018convenient\u2019 is an applicable business concept, then a corpus is created using this concept. Additionally, language corpuses which can understand plain words, say, \u2018more\u2019, \u2018less\u2019 may also be used. In case, the business demands that a distinction be made between \u2018more convenient\u2019 and \u2018less convenient\u2019, then the system can use a hybrid approach utilizing both the above corpuses and classify them accordingly.","In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the rating generated by the rating handler is aggregated with pre-rated reviews of a product to obtain an overall rating. The pre-rated handler is a component that can be used to read images\/texts from external websites which display the ratings given by various online customers or computed by an online vendor. An example of an online pre-rated review is illustrated in .","In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the rating handler implements a normalization approach to arrive at a rating. In one of the methods, the rating scores obtained by various methods are normalized to adjust extremely polarized frequently occurring comments toward the generally known average value. In an embodiment, this is done by calculating a Bayesian average. The formula used for calculating a Bayesian average is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["x","_"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"C","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mover":{"mi":["m","_"]}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["x","i"]}}],"mo":"+"},{"mi":["n","C"],"mo":"+"}]}}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0001","num":"0053"},"o":"x"},"C=any constant usually assigned close to the number of terms i.e. contents in this case",{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0003","num":"0055"},"o":"m"},"x=rating of each content","n=number of contents"]}}}},"In another method using the normalized approach, weight factors are assigned to various credibility parameters as defined by the business as illustrated in . The weight factors are multiplied to the content ratings to obtain real rating values.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["702","704","706","708","704","706","708","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["902","904","906"]},"At step , relevant adjectives are identified from sentences and are associated with sentences types using a grammar handler and a corpus of text models. Subsequently, at step , a rating is calculated for each sentence. In an embodiment of the present invention, a rating is calculated multi-step logic spanning with each step having different weights as per business needs. In an example, direct assignments of numerical values to language sentiments are done e.g. adjective \u2018good\u2019 assigned a value of +1, bad as \u22121, and excellent as +2. In another example, business sentiments are classified using a custom domain based corpus created from business data. In yet another example, ratings from external systems, such as those appearing on websites, are mixed and aggregated with the calculated rating to obtain a collective rating. In yet another example, various credibility parameters as defined and enforced on the data sources and other system entities, and a rating scale is configured using the credibility parameters. At step , an output is provided based on the calculated ratings. In an embodiment, the output includes displaying graphs\/charts and reports displayed to the user on a dashboard. In another embodiment, XML\/RDF data feeds are provided to third party applications that illustrate object-oriented views of the results. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the method exposes an API where applications can call the exposed function after conforming to defined input and output message schemas. This output mode is aimed at providing analytical feeds directly at the application level interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"The present invention may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system, a method, or a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein programming instructions are communicated from a remote location.","While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein, it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications in form and detail may be made therein without departing from or offending the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is described by way of embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
