---
title: Device movement user interface gestures for file sharing functionality
abstract: Methods and devices provide a gesture activated file sharing functionality enabling users to share files with other nearby computing devices. The file sharing functionality may include establishing wireless links with nearby devices and determine their relative locations. The computing device may detect a file sharing motion of the computing device from accelerometers and transmit files to or request files from a nearby device in response. Base on motion parameters, e.g., direction, speed and/or shape, the computing device may identify a targeted device to which a file may be transmitted or from which a file may be requested. The computing device may request user verification of the identified device and send a request to transmit files to the targeted device. The computing devices may transmit files using networks and addresses provided over the device-to-device communication links.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457651&OS=08457651&RS=08457651
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08457651
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091014
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/248,249 filed Oct. 2, 2009 entitled \u201cUser Interface Methods Providing File Sharing Functionality,\u201d the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application cross-references and fully incorporates by reference concurrently filed U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/578,867, entitled \u201cDevice Movement User Interface Gestures for File Sharing Functionality.\u201d","The present invention relates generally to computer user interface systems and more particularly to a gesture based user interface for activating a file sharing function.","Personal electronic devices (e.g. cell phones, PDAs, laptops, gaming devices, etc.) provide users with increasing functionality and data storage. In addition to serving as personal organizers, personal electronic devices serve to store documents, photographs, videos, and music, and serve as portals to the Internet and electronic mail. These devices allow users to communicate with other users and share stored files, such as documents, pictures or videos with other mobile device users. Today, mobile devices allow users to share files by employing different methods such as emailing, texting (e.g., SMS), multimedia messaging service (MMS), and near field communication (NFC). However, these file sharing methods are limiting, cumbersome, and time consuming. Drafting and sending an email requires a large amount of typing. The sender must know and enter an email address before sending a message. To send SMS or MMS messages, senders must know the recipient phone number. To use the internet for uploading or downloading files, the users must know a URL and visit a website. To use NFC, the senders and recipients of files must be in very close proximity.","The various aspects include methods for sharing files among computing devices, including activating a file sharing functionality, discovering nearby computing devices, establishing a wireless link with the discovered computing devices, determining locations of the discovered nearby computing devices, detecting a file sharing gesture based on accelerations of the computing device, identifying a targeted computing device based on the detected file sharing gesture, and transmitting a file sharing message to the targeted computing device. The wireless link may be established using a wireless technology selected from Bluetooth\u00ae, ZigBee\u00ae, Near Field Communication (NFC), wide-area-wireless IEEE 802.11 (WiFi), infrared (IrDA), and ultrasound. In an aspect, determining locations of the discovered nearby computing devices may include receiving location coordinates provided by Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers in each of the discovered nearby computing devices via the established wireless link, and transmitting the file sharing message to the targeted computing device may be accomplished using a wireless technology different from the wireless technology used to establish the wireless link. In an aspect, determining locations of the discovered nearby computing device may include determining a difference in arrival times of signals received from the discovered nearby computing devices using a first and second antennae, and using triangulation calculations based on the determined difference in arrival times of signals to determine a direction to each of the discovered nearby computing devices. In a further aspect, determining locations of the nearby discovered computing device may include receiving location coordinates provided by GPS receivers in each of the discovered nearby computing devices, and comparing the received location coordinates to location coordinates from a GPS receiver. In a further aspect, identifying the targeted computing device may include detecting accelerations of the computing device, calculating a velocity of the computing device based on the detected accelerations, calculating a ballistic trajectory based upon the calculated velocity, calculating a landing location where an object would land based on the calculated ballistic trajectory, and identifying a computing device located closest to the calculated landing location.","An aspect method may further include detecting accelerations of the computing device, determining whether the computing device is being moved along an elliptical path based upon the detected accelerations and determining a direction of rotation if the computing device is being moved along an elliptical path, in which transmitting a file sharing message includes transmitting a file to all nearby discovered computing devices if the computing device is being moved in a clockwise direction, and transmitting a request for files to all nearby discovered computing devices if the computing device is being moved in a counterclockwise direction. In a further aspect, transmitting a file sharing message includes transmitting a file to all nearby discovered computing devices if the computing device is being moved in a counterclockwise direction, and transmitting a request for files to all nearby discovered computing devices if the computing device is being moved in a clockwise direction. In a further aspect, transmitting a file sharing message may include transmitting a selected file to the targeted computing device, and the method may further include transmitting a request to transmit the file to the targeted computing device, and receiving a response from the targeted computing device including access data specifying an address to which the file should be transmitted, in which transmitting the file to the targeted computing device may include determining a wireless communication link over which the file should be transmitted based upon the address specified in the received access data, and transmitting the file to the address via the determined wireless communication link. In a further aspect, the request to transmit the file to the target computing device may be accomplished using the established wireless link, and the determined wireless communication link used to transmit the file uses a wireless technology that is different than the established wireless link technology. In a further aspect, transmitting a file sharing message may include transmitting a selected file to the targeted computing device, and the method may further include displaying a prompt for a user verification of the targeted computing device, and determining whether a user input indicates user verification of the targeted computing device, in which transmitting the file to the targeted computing device may be accomplished if the user input indicates user verification of the targeted computing device. In a further aspect, displaying a prompt for a user verification of the targeted computing device may include receiving a user identifier from discovered computing devices via the established wireless link, using the received user identifier to obtain an image from a contact database, and displaying an obtained image as the prompt for the user verification of the targeted computing device.","In another aspect, the method may further include displaying a radar map image including graphical indicators for the determined relative locations of the discovered nearby computing devices. In a further aspect, transmitting a file sharing message comprises transmitting a message requesting the targeted computing device to transmit a file. In another aspect, the method may further include transmitting access data to the targeted computing device in which the access data includes an address to which the requested file should be transmitted.","Another aspect is a mobile device that includes a processor, a display coupled to the processor, accelerometers coupled to the processor, a memory coupled to the processor, and at least one wireless transceiver coupled to the processor, in which the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations of the various aspect methods.","Another aspect is a mobile device that includes means for accomplishing the functions involved in the operations of the various aspect methods.","Another aspect is a computer program product including a computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions including at least one instruction for accomplishing the processes of involved in the various aspect methods.","The various aspects will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any implementation described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.","As used herein, a \u201ctouchscreen\u201d is a touch sensing input device or a touch sensitive input device with an associated image display. As used herein, a \u201ctouchpad\u201d is a touch sensing input device without an associated image display. A touchpad can be implemented on any surface of an electronic device outside the image display area. Touchscreens and touchpads are generically referred to herein as a \u201ctouch surface.\u201d Touch surfaces may be integral parts of an electronic device, such as a touchscreen display, or may be a separate module, such as a touchpad, that can be coupled to the electronic device by a wired or wireless data link. The terms touchscreen, touchpad, and touch surface may be used interchangeably hereinafter.","As used herein, the terms \u201cpersonal electronic device,\u201d \u201ccomputing device\u201d and \u201cportable computing device\u201d refer to any one or all of cellular telephones, personal data assistants (PDA's), palm-top computers, notebook computers, personal computers, wireless electronic mail receivers, cellular telephone receivers (e.g., the Blackberry\u00ae and Treo\u00ae devices), multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones (e.g., the Blackberry Storm\u00ae), and similar electronic devices which include a programmable processor, memory, a transceiver for communicating with a network (e.g., a wireless network), and a connected or integral touch surface or other pointing device (e.g., a computer mouse). In an example aspect used to illustrate various aspects of the present invention, the electronic device is a cellular telephone including an integral touchscreen display. However, this aspect is present merely as one example implementation of the various aspects, and as such is not intended to exclude other possible implementations of the subject matter recited in the claims.","As used herein a \u201ctouch event\u201d refers to a detected user input on a touch surface which may include information regarding location or relative location of the touch. For example, on a touchscreen or touchpad user interface device, a touch event refers to the detection of a user touching the device and may include information regarding the location on the device being touched.","With the advances in electronic technologies, computing devices are increasingly used to store and share personal data. Pictures, movies, emails, URLs, applications, contacts, and text messages are examples of data that users store and share with other computing devices. A variety of available file sharing methods are currently available which allow users to share files via a variety of wired and wireless communication networks. For example, emails are delivered in Internet Protocol (IP) datagrams via wired and wireless (e.g., WiFi and cellular data networks) to email addresses; Short Messaging Service (SMS) and Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) messages are delivered via cellular telephone networks to device phone numbers; downloaded files and webpages from websites accessed at an IP address are delivered via wired and wireless networks; data can be exchanged between two computing devices via short range Bluetooth wireless communication links; and data can be communicated over very short distances using Near Field Communication (NFC) technologies.","Despite the variety of communication links available to transfer information among computing devices, current user interface systems require users to enter information that has no perceptual connection with the physical world, such as email addresses, telephone numbers or IP addresses. Those more intuitive interfaces, such as allowing users to share files by tracing a finger gesture on the touchscreen of a computing device as provided on the Bump and Move file sharing applications for the Apple iPhone\u00ae, require that all communicating devices be within the same network and require a server and internet connection to help pair sender and receiver. In sum, known methods for sharing files among computing devices are either not intuitive, or are limited to particular networks.","The methods and systems of the various aspects allow users to be cognitively and physically involved with communicating data (i.e., sharing files) by linking the file transfer functionality to motions that have intuitive meaning. In the natural world, delivery of objects occurs when cognitive intention and physical effort combine to physically deliver an object from one person to another. In the various aspects, the processes of transmitting files are tied to user physical actions which mimic actions that would be implemented if the files of nearby computing devices were physical objects. Computing devices may gather information about the presence and relative location of other nearby computing devices. Such presence data may include the location parameters (e.g., GPS coordinates) and access data (e.g., telephone number or email address) of nearby computing devices. Similar to how one passes a set of keys to another by picking up the keys and tossing or dropping them into the other person's hands, the various aspects allow users to select a file, determine the physical location of the targeted computing devices, and transmit the file to other computing devices using an intuitive physical action such as a mock throwing motion with the computing device. Similarly, the various aspects may allow a computing device to request transmission of files from another computing device by using a mock lasso movement of the computing device or other intuitive motion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 12"],"b":["100","100","102","102"]},"In method  at block , the computing device implementing the file sharing functionality may enable the user to identify a file to be shared with another computing device. For example, the user interface may present a menu, list, or thumbnail display of files from which the user can select a file by, for example, touching it on a touchscreen display. Any known method of selecting a file may be used.","In method  at block , activation of the file sharing functionality may prompt the computing device to discover nearby computing devices using a wireless communication link by using, for example, Bluetooth\u00ae or ZigBee\u00ae wireless communication technologies. Depending on the type of wireless communication technology used to establish a wireless communication link with nearby computing devices, the computing device may discover other computing devices located at relatively close distances. For example, a computing device configured with a Bluetooth\u00ae transceiver may be configured to discover the presence of like-equipped computing devices located within about 100 meters, depending on the Bluetooth power class employed. Bluetooth\u00ae is a standard communications protocol primarily designed for low power consumption, short range (power-class-dependent: 1 meter, 10 meters, 100 meters) communications between devices equipped with low-cost transceiver microchips. Bluetooth\u00ae makes it possible for these devices to communicate with each other when they are within range. As is well known, the Bluetooth\u00ae communication protocol, like other short range wireless communication protocols (e.g., the ZigBee\u00ae and NFC protocols), provides for automatic device discovery and link establishment signaling. This automatic link establishment capability includes a set of transmissions at a predefined frequency and with a predefined format that are recognized by receiving devices, prompting the receiving devices to reply with signals that enable the two devices to commence wireless link establishment handshaking communications to establish a wireless communication link between them. The various aspects leverage such automatic device discovery and wireless communication link establishment capabilities to enable a computing device to locate other nearby computing devices. Since the computing devices use radio frequency (RF) communications to discover each other, the two computing devices do not have to be in line of sight of to enable file transfers between them.","As part of discovering nearby computing devices, at block  the computing device may receive the locations of the nearby computing devices using different methods. In one aspect, the computing device may determine the location of nearby computing devices in block  by receiving precise latitude and longitude coordinates of the nearby computing devices from Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers within the computing devices. In another aspect, the computing device may determine the relative location of the nearby computing devices at block  by using signal strength and time-of-arrival information from received RF signals and triangulation calculations, as described more fully below with reference to .","Optionally, at block , the computing device may map the locations of nearby computing devices and display the map in a display GUI once the relative locations of nearby computing devices are determined. The mapped locations of nearby computing devices may be displayed relative to the position of the computing device, such as in a radar map type display showing locations of nearby computing devices with graphical indicators (e.g., dots). An example of such a radar map display is shown in , which is described more fully below.","Once the file sharing functionality is activated and the locations of nearby computing devices are determined, at block  the computing device may determine whether a user wishes to share the selected file with another computing device by detecting a file transfer motion gesture. As described more fully herein, the computing device may be configured to detect and recognize a file transfer motion gesture based upon accelerometer data indicating a recognizable movement of the computing device.","Movement file transfer gestures may include, for example, mock throwing gestures, and clockwise and counterclockwise elliptical swirling gestures. Each of these file transfer gestures may be used to initiate transmission of data between computing devices as described in more details below with reference to . For example, to share a file with another device, a user may move the computing device as if throwing it to the intended recipient of the file, a gesture that the computing device can recognize and process in order to identify the intended recipient computing device and initiate the transmission of the selected file.","At block  the computing device may identify targeted particular nearby computing device to which the user intends to send the selected file based upon information regarding the file transfer motion gesture, such as its direction and speed, and the relative location of nearby computing devices.","A computing device may be equipped with different sensors that can provide information that the device processor can use to calculate a trajectory or direction to identify the nearby computing devices that are to receive the selected file. For example, the computing device may include a compass to determine the orientation of the computing device with respect to the direction of a gesture. The computing device may include a set of accelerometers that can provide gravity vector data and acceleration data that the device processor can use to calculate a ballistic path and impact point of a mock throwing movement to determine an intended recipient of a file from a mock throwing gesture.","Optionally, at block  the computing device may be configured to prompt a user to confirm or authorize sharing the selected file with the targeted computing device. Also at block  the computing device may receive a message from the targeted recipient computing device, indicating whether the device will accept the file. Providing a verification and\/or authorization process enables a user to confirm that the intended recipient's computing device has been selected, and enables intended recipients to decide whether to accept a file. Such measures may prevent transmission of files to the wrong computing device, and give recipient users control over the files that are transmitted to their computing devices. Instead of transmitting an authorization message, a targeted computing device may simply provide the requesting computing device with communication access data, such as Bluetooth identification, email address, or telephone number which can be used to complete the file transfer.","On the receiver side, authorization to receive a file may be enabled in a variety of ways. For example, a user may configure their computing device to always accept file transmissions from nearby computing devices. In another example, when a computing device receives a request to receive a file, the device processor may generate a prompt that alerts the device's user of the pending file transfer request and, optionally, the identity of the user sending the file and file name or type. An intended recipient user may then press a key or virtual key on the GUI to either accept or decline transfer of the file. In a further example, a user may set an authorization state that automatically accepts file sharing with certain known computing devices, such as those in a contact database, and requires user input to authorize file transfers from unknown computing devices. Such file transfer acceptance criteria may be defined in custom settings based on their preferences.","As part of discovering nearby computing devices at block  or receiving authorization to transmit files at block , the recipient computing device may provide access data that the transmitting computing device uses to accomplish a file transmission. Such access data may include an address of the recipient computer device, such as a telephone number (for SMS or MMS messages), email address, or IP address that the transmitting computing device can use to address the file for transmission. The access data may also identify a preferred communication method and communication network to be used for transmitting the file. For example, the receiving device may identify that the file may be transmitted via a direct communication link, such as an NFC, Bluetooth or WiFi direct communication link. Alternatively, the receiving device may identify that the file may be transmitted via an indirect communication network, such as a cellular data communication link or WiFi communication link to a server (e.g., an e-mail server). Additionally as part of the discovery and\/or authorization processes (blocks  and\/or ) the transmitting and intended recipient computing devices may negotiate a mutually acceptable communication network to use for the file transfer.","Once the intended recipient computing device is identified, and transfer of the file is verified and\/or authorized, at block  the computing device may transmit the selected file to the targeted device using identified access data and communication network.","As shown in the communication network diagram of , a communication network  may include computing devices -that are configured to communicate with one another using a short range wireless communication link , such as a Bluetooth\u00ae wireless communication link. The computing devices -can also communicate with a cellular communication network  via wireless communication links  between the devices and a cellular base station . Such a cellular communication network  may be a cellular telephone network, or a WiFi hotspot network coupled to the Internet . Depending on the type of files, the short range wireless communication link  available, and the access data provided, the computing devices -may share files directly from one device to the other, through device-to-device wireless links (e.g., Bluetooth\u00ae or NFC communication link), and\/or indirectly, such as via a cellular system (SMS or MMS) or via a wireless link to the Internet (e.g., via a webpage or an email server ). For example, the computing devices -which can establish Bluetooth\u00ae links with one another may exchange access data and files directly using a Bluetooth\u00ae communication link. As another example, computing devices -may exchange access data via Bluetooth\u00ae links, and when access data specifies a telephone number for transmitting a file, the computing devices -may transmit a selected file as an SMS or MMS message transmitted via a cellular telephone access point  to a cellular network . The cellular network relays the SMS\/MMS message to the recipient device via the cellular access point . When access data exchanged between computing devices -includes an email address, a transmitting computing device may transmit a selected file via email by transmitting the email to an email server  via the cellular access point  to the cellular network , which relays the email message via the Internet . The email server  may receive the email, identify the intended recipient, and deliver it to the intended computing device or via the Internet  to the cellular network  which transmits it via the cellular access point .","While the foregoing examples described transmitting files via a cellular telephone network, messages may similarly be transmitted via another type of wireless communication network, such as a WiFi, WiMax or MiFi network. Further, the computing devices -may be configured to select among a number of alternative wireless networks (e.g., cellular, WiFi and MiFi) based upon a variety of factors, including signal strength, reliability, cost, and access rights. Further, files transmitted by one computing device via one wireless network may be received the recipient computing device via a different wireless network. For example, a transmitting computing device may transmit a selected file to a recipient device e-mail address via cellular telephone data communication link, but the recipient computing device may receive the e-mail from its e-mail server via a local WiFi wireless hotspot coupled to the Internet. The methods by which messages are routed through external networks and the Internet are well known and thus not described further herein.","The various aspects are also not limited to radio frequency wireless communications, as the communication among mobile devices may be accomplished via visible or infrared light or ultrasound. For example, the messages employed in the various aspects may be transmitted via infrared data links using well known technologies, such as the infrared transceivers included in some mobile device models. As another example, the messages employed in the various aspects may be transmitted via visible light, such as a small projector on one mobile device (e.g. a \u201cpico projector\u201d) that may be aimed at a camera on a second mobile device to exchange images. As a further example, future mobile devices that may be equipped with ultrasound emitters and receivers may be configured to use ultrasound to communicate data across short distances in a manner similar to radio frequency communications.","Representative communications that occur between different components of the communication network described above with reference to  are illustrated in . A computing device that has its file transfer functionality activated may discover nearby computing device by sending a device discovery signal, message . The other computing device , upon receiving the device discovery signal, may transmit a response message . The device discovery and response signals may include device identifying information about the computing devices , to enable the devices to negotiate a communication link, messages . The device discovery, response, and handshaking message formats will be defined by the particular communication protocol used for the device-to-device communications (e.g., Bluetooth\u00ae). As part of the response or handshaking messages  or , the replying computing device may provide information about the device, such as its access data, its location (e.g., in the form of GPS coordinates) and, optionally, information about its owner such as a name or picture of the owner. Based on a detected motion gesture, the sending computing device may determine that the user desires to share a particular file with a targeted computing device . To accomplish a file transmission, the sending computing device may send a query, message , to the targeted computing device requesting permission to transmit the file and access data for use in sending the file. Based on the preferences of its owner and in response to the query message  received from the transmitting computing device , the targeted computing device may respond by transmitting the requested access data, message .","If the access data sent to the transmitting computing device specifies that the file should be transmitted via the established device-to-device communication link (e.g., a Bluetooth\u00ae link), the transmitting computing device may directly transmit the file to the targeted computing device in message .","If the access data sent to the transmitting computing device specifies a telephone number, the transmitting computing device may compose an SMS or MMS message including the file and transmit the message via the cellular network  wireless access point , message . The cellular network  relays the SMS\/MMS message to the targeted computing device using the telephone number, message .","If the access data provided to the transmitting computing device is an e-mail address, the transmitting computing device may compose and send an e-mail message via the cellular network  wireless access point  (or other type of wireless network), message . The cellular network  may relay the e-mail message to an addressed e-mail server  via the Internet , message . The e-mail server  may store the e-mail message and, when accessed, relay the e-mail message to the cellular network , which provides service to the targeted computing device via the Internet , message . The cellular network  relays the e-mail message to the targeted computing device via a wireless access point , message . If the access data includes an IP address, the computing device may access the server with that IP address via the cellular network  and the Internet  to upload the file in a manner very similar to how an e-mail message is sent to an e-mail server. The targeted computing device may access the server at the same IP address via the cellular network  and the Internet , and download the file in a manner very similar to how an e-mail message is received from the e-mail server.","In an aspect illustrated in , a computing device  may inform a user that the file sharing functionality is active by displaying a radar map  of nearby computing devices. Such a radar map display  may use graphical indicators , such as dots or circles, to show the location of other nearby computing devices which have wireless communication links established with the user's computing device . As described above, the wireless communication links to nearby computing devices and the device location information used to create the radar display  may be established and exchanged during the device discovery process commenced by activation of the file sharing functionality. The orientation of the nearby computing devices may be shown relative to the location of the user's computing device . The location of the user's computing device may be indicated on the radar map  by the launch pad . As the user moves, the orientation of the dots with respect to the launch pad  may change, indicating the changing relative location of the other computing devices with respect to the user's location. The radar map  display may be enabled or disabled based on the user's preferences.","Once the file sharing functionality is activated and a wireless link is established between nearby computing devices, different methods may be employed for sharing files among the linked computing devices. One method in which files may be shared is by transmitting files to another computing device . A second method in which files may be shared is by transmitting a request from the computing device  requesting another computing device to send it files.  illustrate different aspect gestures that may be used to initiate the transmission of files to other computing devices.  illustrates a aspect gesture that may be used to cause a computing device  to request files from other computing devices.","In an aspect shown in , the transmitting computing device may be configured to detect a throw motion gesture and interpret this motion to determine an intended recipient computing device to which it should transmit files. In this aspect, the computing device may include a compass and accelerometer sensors, and may be configured to detect the direction and acceleration of the computing device in a mock throwing gesture. The computing device may further be configured to calculate the distance a file would travel if it were a physical object based on the calculated throwing speed (based on measured accelerations) and direction parameters of the throw gesture, and identify the targeting computing device by identifying the computing device closest to where a real object would land following a ballistic trajectory. A user  may touch a button or virtual button to activate the throw gesture function, and then mimic throwing the computing device as shown by the line and arrow  towards a targeted computing device . The computing device may measure the direction of the throwing gesture and calculate a ballistic trajectory based on the measured accelerations. Once the distance and direction of the throw gesture are determined, the computing device may identify the closest computing device as the targeted computing device , and interpret this gesture to begin the process of transmitting files to the device.","In a further aspect, a computing device may be configured to provide a training or calibration functionality. In this training\/calibration functionality, users may practice the various flick gestures to learn how to \u201cflick\u201d or \u201cthrow\u201d a file to a particular location. For example, a user of one computing device may attempt to designate another computing device as the targeted computing device. With only a single nearby computing device and in the training\/calibration mode the computing device  may be configured to provide feedback to the user, such as that the user \u201cthrew\u201d the file too far or not far enough. Also, the computing device  may be configured to enable the user to calibrate the throwing motion gesture. For example, following a throw gesture directed towards another computing device in the training\/calibration mode, the computing device  may prompt the user (e.g., with a display or a verbal communication) to indicate whether the force or speed of the throw motion should be associated with the measured distance to the other computing device. If the user agrees, the computing device  may adjust coefficients in the ballistic trajectory calculations using the measured force or speed so that whenever a throw gesture is sensed with the same force or speed the calculated impact point will be the same distance away as the other computing device in the calibration step.","In an aspect shown in , the transmitting computing device may be configured to recognize a counterclockwise ellipsoidal hand gesture and interpret the gesture to mean that the device should begin transmitting a selected file to all the identified nearby computing devices -. In this aspect, the transmitting computing device may be configured to detect a user's touching of a button or virtual button that indicates the motion gesture is about to begin and prepare to transmit files based on a gesture. The user  may then swing the computing device above the user's head in a counterclockwise generally circular manner  to form a closed elliptical path, which is detected by the computing device based upon measurements by accelerometer sensors. The user may move the computing device in a counterclockwise ellipsoidal direction to indicate that the device should initiate the processes to transmit a selected file to all wirelessly linked computing devices -","In an aspect shown in , the transmitting computing device  may be configured to prompt the user to verify transmission of files to a particular computing device before the transmission is begun. Once the targeted computing device  is identified based on the user's gestures and location of the other computing devices  as described above, the transmitting computing device  may generate a display prompting the user to verify the identity of the targeted computing device . In an exemplary aspect illustrated in , the transmitting computing device  may be configured to present an identity of the owner of the targeted computing device. The identity of the owner may be a name or photo, and the information may be obtained from the transmitting computing device's contact database, or from the targeted computing device, such as during the handshaking process or as part of the transmitted access data. For example, if the identity of the targeted computing device owner is known, a question pane  may be presented on the display  prompting the user to indicate whether the file should be transmitted to the identified person. The user may select \u201cYes\u201d to verify the transmission file, and \u201cNo\u201d to repeat the process of identifying a targeted computing device .","In another aspect shown in , the transmitting computing device  may be configured to display a radar map  in which the identified targeted computing device  is identified with a graphical indicator , such as a star, in conjunction with a prompt requesting the user to verify the file transmission. The verification prompt may display a question pane  to prompt the user to verify the transmission of a selected file to the indicated computing device. The user may touch the touchscreen  with a finger  to indicate that the file should be transmitted or to prevent transmission so a different computing device can be selected.","In an aspect shown in , the requesting computing device may be configured to recognize a clockwise ellipsoidal movement gesture  to mean sending a request for receiving files to every linked computing device -. This movement gesture  may be accomplished by the user raising the computing device and swinging it in a clockwise approximately circular motion to form a closed elliptical path. This movement gesture  may be recognized by the computing device to indicate that the computing device should transmit file request messages to all nearby computing devices  without having to individually target each linked computing device -. When the movement gesture is recognized, the computing device may transmit file request messages to every linked computing device -","The requesting computing devices  may be configured to display a prompt to enable the user to verify the identity of the targeted computing devices  before a file transfer request message is transmitted. In an aspect shown in , a requesting computing device  may be configured to identify a targeted computing device on a radar map  display using a graphical indicator , such as the star, and display a decision pane  requesting the user to confirm or reject the device selection. In the illustrated example, two decision soft keys  are displayed to allow the user to verify the action by pressing \u201cRequest\u201d soft key, or stop the request, such as to select a different targeted computing device, by pressing the \u201cDon't Request\u201d soft key.","In an aspect shown in , when the identity of the owner of the targeted computing device  can be ascertained, such as by looking up the device in the user's contact database, the requesting computing device may enable the user to verify the request transmission using that identification data. The identity of the owner of a targeted computing device  may be displayed as a name, picture, telephone number or email address of the owner. For example, if the picture and name of the owner of the targeted computing device is available, such as in the contact database or transmitted by the targeted computing device, the requesting computing device may display a verification prompt pane  including the profile picture and the name of the owner of the targeted computing device  along with a prompt for the user to verify the transmission of the requests to the targeted computing device . For example, the user may press a \u201cYes\u201d or \u201cNo\u201d soft key to verify the transmission of the request message.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["3400","10","10","3408","3408","3404","3406","3406","3404","3408","310","308","402","402","308","308","402","308","3404","3402","3402","402","308","3402","3402","3408","3406","3408","310","10"]},"The file sharing functionality and hand and flick gestures described above may be implemented using the methods described below with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["3600","402","502","3600","3604","10","402","10","502","3602","502","3602","3608"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 20-21"],"b":["3800","3804","3806","10","3808","10","3808","10","3810","10"]},"Optionally at block , the computing device  may receive user instructions to search only for known nearby computing devices. For example, a computing device  may be instructed to search only for devices whose device data match those in the device's contact database. In this aspect, once nearby devices are discovered, the computing device  may compare the nearby devices' identity against the contact database at block , to determine whether the nearby computing device is known at determination block . If the detected nearby computing device is not known (i.e., determination block =\u201cNo\u201d), the computing device  may ignore that device at block . If the detected nearby computing device is known (i.e., determination block =\u201cYes\u201d), the computing device  may determine the location of the nearby device at block  in .","The location of computing devices  may be determined using various methods. For example, Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinate data receivers received from nearby computing devices may be used to determine their location relative to the device's own location. Alternatively or in addition, signal triangulation methods may be used in determining the relative location of the nearby computing devices .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 1"],"b":["3900","3900","3902","10","10","10","3904","10","3906","3908","304","10","112"]},"Optionally, the computing device  may employee different GUI displays to show the relative locations of nearby computing devices . For example, the computing device  may display a radar map  including graphical indicators that show the location of all the nearby computing devices  with respect to the location of the computing device  at block . Alternatively, the computing device  may display a picture map including pictures of the owners of the nearby computing devices  at block . The computing device  may then detect a file sharing gesture at block  in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["4000","10","10","10","4002","4004","10","4006","4008","10","4010","10","304","10","112","1","4011","10","802","10"]},"Once file gesture functionality is activated and nearby computing devices are discovered, different gestures may be used command the computing device  to share files with nearby computing devices . These gestures may include those that require the user to move the computing device , and those that require the user to trace a shape on the touchscreen  of the computing device  using a finger .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["4100","10","10","10","4102","4104","4106","4108","4110","4110","10","4112","4114","4114","10","4116","4114","10","4115"]},"If the computing device's movement is not following an elliptical path (i.e., determination block =\u201cNo\u201d), the computing device  may determine the direction of the movement at block , determine the maximum velocity of the computing device at block , and calculate a ballistic trajectory and impact location at block  based on the determined direction and maximum velocity. At block  the computing device  may then identify the computing device  positioned closest to the calculated impact location, and initiate the file transfer process with the identified computing device  at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16","FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["4200","4110","4200","4202","4204","4206","4208","4210","4210","4112","4210","4102","4118"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17","FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIG. 1"],"b":["4600","10","4600","4602","10","4606","4608","4614","10","4614","10","4110","4200","4614","4616","4616","10","4401","4616","10","4618","4620","4622","10","4624","118"]},"Optionally, the transmitting computing device  may be configured to prompt the user to verify the identity of the targeted computing device  before beginning the processes for transmitting the file.  illustrates a process flow of an aspect method  for prompting a device user to verify the identity of the targeted computing device  before transmitting a file. The computing device  may be configured to display identifying information about the targeted computing device at block , and display a verification prompt at block . Identifying information may include the location of the targeted computing device in a radar map , a picture profile of the owner of the targeted computing device and the cellular telephone number of the targeted computing device. For example, once a targeted computing device is identified, the computing device may provide the location of that identified device on the radar map . Because the location of nearby computing devices is displayed relative to the transmitting computing device , a user may verify the identity of the targeted computing device by comparing its position on the displayed radar map  to the position of the other nearby device users. The computing device  may determine whether file transmission is verified by the user based upon an appropriate user input at determination block . If file transmission is verified by the user (i.e., determination block =\u201cYes\u201d), the computing device  may begin the process of transmitting the file to the targeted computing device at block  in . If file transmission is not verified by the user (i.e., determination block =\u201cNo\u201d), computing device  may returned to the selected file display at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["4800","10","4800","4802","10","4803","4804","4804","10","4708","4804","10","4806","4808","10","4810"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["4900","10","4900","4902","10","4904","10","10","4906","4906","10","10","4908","4906","10","4910","10","4912"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["5000","10","5000","102","10","10","106","108","110","10","802","5002","10","5002","10","5003"]},"If the computing device determines that it is moving (i.e., determination block =\u201cYes\u201d), the computing device may determine whether the movement is following an elliptical path at determination block . Methods for determining whether a path of motion is elliptical are described above with reference to . If the movement is determined to be not elliptical (i.e., determination block =\u201cNo\u201d), the requesting computing device may perform the operations of method  described above with reference to  at block . If the movement is determined to be elliptical (i.e., determination block =\u201cYes\u201d), the requesting computing device may determine whether the movement is clockwise at determination block . If the movement is not clockwise (i.e., determination block =\u201cNo\u201d), the requesting computing device  may ignore the accelerometer data at block . If the movement is determined to be clockwise (i.e., determination block =\u201cYes\u201d), the requesting computing device  may identify the nearby devices as the targeted computing devices at block . The requesting computing device  may then send a message to the targeted computing device requesting files, at block , and receive files from the targeted computing device  at block . Optionally, the computing device may be configured to request and receive authorization for sharing files from the targeted device at block , before transmitting the request to share files.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["5200","10","5200","5202","5204","5206","5208","10","10","5210","5212","5212","10","5214","5212","5216"]},"In a further aspect a computing device to which a file is transmitted may be configured to redirect the file to another computing device if it is busy, such as involved in a telephone call or transmitting data. In a further aspect, a network delivering a file to the targeted computing device may be configured to redirect the file to another computing device if the targeted computing device is busy, such as involved in a telephone call or transmitting data.","The aspects described above may be implemented on any of a variety of portable computing devices . Typically, such portable computing devices  will have in common the components illustrated in . For example, the portable computing devices  may include a processor  coupled to internal memory  and a touch surface input device. The touch surface input device may be any type of touchscreen display , such as a resistive-sensing touchscreen, capacitive-sensing touchscreen, infrared sensing touchscreen, acoustic\/piezoelectric sensing touchscreen or the like. The various aspects are not limited to any particular type of touchscreen display  or touchpad technology. Additionally, the portable computing device  may have an antenna  for sending and receiving electromagnetic radiation that is connected to one or more wireless transceivers , coupled to the processor . For example, one wireless transceiver may be cellular telephone transceiver configured to establish a wireless communication link with a cellular telephone and data communication network, and another may be a Bluetooth\u00ae transceiver configured to establish wireless communication links with other Bluetooth\u00ae enabled computing devices. Portable computing devices  which do not include a touchscreen input device  typically include a key pad  or miniature keyboard and menu selection keys or rocker switches  which serve as pointing devices. The processor  may further be connected to a wired network interface , such as a universal serial bus (USB) or FireWire\u00ae connector socket, for connecting the processor  to an external touchpad or touch surfaces or external local area network. The computing device  may further include a microphone  coupled to the processor  to receive voice and commands from the user.","The computing device  may further include other circuit components and sensors to enable the file sharing functionality of the various aspects. An accelerometer sensor assembly  may be coupled to the processor  to detect acceleration of the computing device. Such an accelerometer sensor assembly  may include three accelerometers configured to sense accelerations along three mutually perpendicular directions. A gyroscope sensor  may be coupled to the processor  to detect rapid rotational movements of the computing device . An electronic compass sensor  may be coupled to the processor to detect the direction in which the computing device is pointing with respect to the Earth's magnetic field. In an aspect, the computing device  may also include a second antenna  coupled to one of the wireless transceivers to enable the transceiver or processor to compare the timing and\/or signal strength of signals received from nearly computing devices to support triangulation calculations. A GPS receiver  may also be coupled to the processor  to determine the location of a computing device. In an aspect, the GPS receiver  and the processor  may be configured to determine location using enhanced GPS services supported by a cellular telephone network.","In some implementations, a touch surface can be provided in areas of the computing device  outside of the touchscreen display . For example, the keypad  can include a touch surface with buried capacitive touch sensors. In other implementations, the keypad  may be eliminated so the touchscreen display  provides the complete GUI. In yet further implementations, a touch surface may be an external touchpad that can be connected to the computing device  by means of a cable to a cable connector  or a wireless transceiver coupled to the processor .","The processor  may be any programmable microprocessor, microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions (applications) to perform a variety of functions, including the functions of the various aspects described above. In some portable computing devices , multiple processors  may be provided, such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. The processor may also be included as part of a communication chipset. Typically, software applications may be stored in the internal memory  before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . In some portable computing devices , the processor  may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. For the purposes of this description, the term memory refers to all memory accessible by the processor , including internal memory  and memory within the processor  itself. Application data files are typically stored in the memory . In many portable computing devices , the memory  may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory, such as flash memory, or a mixture of both.","Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm blocks described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and blocks have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The order in which the blocks of a process are described and appear in the figures is for example purposes only as the order of some blocks may be changed from that described herein without changing the scope of the present invention and the claims.","The blocks of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in processor readable memory which may be any of RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal or computing device. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal or computing device. Additionally, in some aspects, the blocks and\/or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and\/or instructions on a machine readable medium and\/or computer readable medium, which may be incorporated into a computer program product.","The foregoing description of the various aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein, and instead the claims should be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and constitute part of this specification, illustrate exemplary aspects of the invention. Together with the general description given above and the detailed description given below, the drawings serve to explain features of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 6-7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 9-10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
