---
title: Internet identity graph and social graph management system and method
abstract: A repository, distribution, and discovery system for collecting users' online identifiers and relationships, and allowing them to be retrieved and/or updated through a central access point by the users, third parties, and other users. An identity graph in the form of links to the user's public profiles can be ported to any web page or web service. Links back to the user's public profile on the repository are ported to the user's profile pages. The system includes analytics and statistics relating to users' behaviors throughout the web and normalization of actions and data across the social web space. The links inherent in the repository system enhances the level of the user's profiles in search engine listings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275870&OS=08275870&RS=08275870
owner: Olive Interactive, LLC
number: 08275870
owner_city: Providence
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090812
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/088,264 filed Aug. 12, 2008.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates generally to the field of social web sites on global computer networks and in particular to a system and method for managing information personal to individual users of social web sites.","2. Statement of the Problem","The Internet started as an information source and communication tool, and these functions remain important aspects of the Internet. It is also a truism that the Internet is a powerful sales tool. Companies that provide useful internet services have cash flows of more then ten billion dollars a year, much of which comes from advertising. The Internet has become the most important medium for distribution of music, and is rapidly becoming the most important medium for distribution of videos. The Internet has also become an important vehicle for telecommunications, including telephone communication. Because the Internet lends itself to immediate feedback to advertisers and service providers, new Internet uses, such as directed advertising are rapidly evolving.","The Internet has also grown to become an important social network. From one point of view, the Internet is the largest social network on the planet. Moreover, on a more explicit level, there are scores, if not hundreds of social network sites on the Internet, and millions of blogs. Social network sites are defined as web sites or applications that provide people with designated relationships to each other access to information that is not available to others who do not have such designated relationships. Because the Internet can be accessed from a myriad of points, such as desktop computers connected to wires, laptop computers connected to wireless networks, hand-helds, cell phones, and integrated products such as Ipods\u2122, for many individuals, the Internet has become their primary means of communication. The explicit social web sites encourage individuals to share their ideas, experiences and thoughts with their friends, sometimes on an hourly or more frequent basis. These social web sites are uniquely different from conventional informational and shopping web sites in that they provide interactions between the web site users, and not just between the web site and individual users. The actions on these web sites are more complex, including actions such as adding a contact, deleting a contact, sending a message to a contact, inviting, such as to a social event, blocking, staring, which also is called bookmarking or placemarking, depending on the web site, linking as in assigning an attribute or giving credit, set a trust level, and voting.","The Internet permits individuals to live in many different social circles that would not be available without the Internet. Many individuals even have multiple identities on the Internet. These social aspects of the Internet have given rise to problems. Brad Fitzpatrick and David Recordon have recognized the problem associated with multiple identities. See bradfittz.com\/social-graph-problem\/. Generally, in discussions of the Internet and, in particular in this disclosure, the term \u201cgraph\u201d means the relationship between disperse items of information. In this disclosure, an individual's identity graph is a record of the relationship between the various items of information relating to that individual that are available on the Internet. An Internet user's social graph is a record of the user's internet relationships to other individual users of the Internet.","While the Internet has come a long ways in its development, it is generally believed that the Internet is still in its infancy, and many more uses for the Internet will be developed in the future, and the social integration of the Internet into society will continue to expand.","Despite it usefulness, and perhaps because of it, problems have developed that present serious roadblocks to its further evolution of the Internet. Even without consciously trying to assume different identities, the need for each web site to have an identification or tracking function, the ubiquity of cookies and other feedback methods, the ease of access, the varieties of access, and the proliferation of web sites and social functioning has resulted in even the average person having many different Internet identities. Thus, what the internet records as multiple individuals may actually be a single individual. This makes it difficult to gather reliable information for advertising, sales, sales compensation and other business purposes.","The existence of the millions of people, each sharing information with others on scores or even hundreds of social websites, blogs, and other websites, and each with a myriad of identities, the Internet is often overwhelmed with electronic traffic. It is well known that many popular websites regularly crash under the weight of such traffic.","Another problem that has arisen is that it is impossible for the Internet user's identity graph and social graph to travel with them. Information pertaining to an individual's identity and social relationships are not portable\u2014parts and pieces are locked away in different places on the Internet, all in different and incompatible formats and obeying different rules. As a result, users are forced to enter the same information over and over again. Furthermore, the various web sites and services themselves are all forced to recreate similar infrastructures to collect information about their users and their user's relationships to one another. As stated by the author's quote above, \u201cUnfortunately, there does not exist a single social graph that is comprehensive and decentralized.\u201d","All of the above problems are particularly exacerbated in social network sites. The key purpose of such sites is social networking, and if a user's identity is not known or varies, such social networking becomes difficult to impossible. Moreover, reconnecting among friends on new social network sites is laborious and thus seriously impedes social networking.","A \u201csolution\u201d to the above is embodied in web sites where an individual can enter the names, addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses and other data on his or her \u201ccontacts\u201d, and the web site periodically accesses the email addresses and sends a message to each contact asking that the contact update the information. This just passes the drudgery of entering data to others. In fact, since most of the requests for updating are unnecessary because the information has not changed, this \u201csolution\u201d just multiplies Internet traffic and adds to the myriad emails that one must delete each day.","For the above and other reasons, it would be highly desirable if a method and apparatus were available that made personal identity graphs more portable and provided a readily available and portable social graph for an individual in a way that required little or no drudgery of data entry for anyone. If this could be done in a way that increased the efficiency of the Internet, or even resulted in reduced Internet traffic, this would indeed be a breakthrough that would suddenly make social web sites more manageable and open new avenues for development of such sites.","The invention solves the above problems, as well as other problems of the prior art, by providing a global Internet identity repository and management system. Identity graphs and social graphs may be easily input and stored in the repository and ported to any web page or web service. In many cases, the identity information is input into the repository automatically whenever a user registers for a web site or application. The identity graphs, social graphs and other information in the repository may be accessed by any individual internet user and from any web site, and transferred, preferably through either a simple application programming interface (API) or a widget. Links between a user's repository web site and the user's public profile on other web sites are easily created, and these links are easily ported to other web sites. These links inherently enhance the position of the user's web sites on search engine created lists.","The invention provides a system and method that enables diverse web sites to push identity information relating to individual Internet users to a repository for the identity graphs of individual Internet users. Further, the invention also provides a system and method that enables diverse web sites to push social relationship information relating to individual internet users to a repository for the social graphs of individual Internet users. Preferably, the information pushed to the repository is not available to others until the individual internet user gives permission for making it available.","The invention provides apparatus and methods for a web site or web service to share or discover information about their users and the relationships between one or more users, or access information about their users and the relationships between them on other web sites.","The invention provides apparatus and methods that allow a user that is connected with someone on a first site to become aware that they could connect with that same person on a second site.","The invention also provides statistics relating to identities and relationships on the internet. Generalized statistics, such as the percentage of people that are registered on a first web site who are also registered on a second web site, are provided. Personal statistics, such as the percentage of a user's contacts on the repository web site who are also registered on a second selected web site. The invention provides a powerful social analytics package that lets the user track how people are finding and engaging the user online. It allows the user to discover where the user's contacts exist and which social networks are most important to them.","The invention provides a method of managing an identity graph repository web service on a repository server computer, the method comprising: collecting a first identity graph of a first internet user, the first identity graph comprising a plurality of first user internet identifiers of the first internet user, each of the first user internet identifiers comprising a URL used by the first internet user in accessing a web service or application; collecting a second identity graph of a second internet user, the second identity graph comprising a plurality of second user internet identifiers of the second internet user, each of the second internet identifiers comprising a URL used by the second internet user in accessing a web service or application; storing the first and second identity graphs in a repository electronic memory associated with the repository server computer; and responsive to a request from a client computer, communicating one of the identity graphs to the client computer and displaying it the client computer. Preferably, the collecting comprises: providing on a client computer an identity web page that displays at least a portion of a URL for each of a plurality of web services or applications; receiving on the client computer one or more internet identifiers used by the first internet user and associating each of the identifiers with one of the URL portions to create a plurality of possible URLs of the single intent user, each the possible URL a URL for one of the plurality of web services or applications; checking whether the plurality of possible URLS are active or inactive on the respective web services or applications; and providing an indication on the identity web page of the activity or inactivity, to form the identity graph providing a record of the use of the first internet user's internet identifiers on the plurality of web services or applications. Preferably, the method further comprises deleting the user identifiers for those web services or applications for which the indication shows the identifier is not active and storing at least a plurality of the URLs on which the indication shows the identifier is active to form at least a portion of the identity graph of the user. Preferably, the receiving comprises receiving the user identifier in one entry location on the identity web page and automatically populating a plurality of possible URLs with the identifier, each such possible URL corresponding to a possible URL for a different web service or application. Preferably, the method further comprises, responsive to the activation of a button on the identity web page, clearing the user identifier from all URLs which have not been found to be active. Preferably, the one or more user identifiers comprises a user identifier that a first user desires to register on a selected plurality of the web services and applications, and the method further comprises registering the user identifier on the selected plurality of the web services and applications on which it is indicated to not be active. Preferably, the registering comprises setting up an acknowledgment email account for receiving acknowledgements of registration, entering the acknowledgment email account as being the email account associated with each of the registrations, collecting the acknowledgements on the acknowledgement email account, and communicating the acknowledgments or a summary thereof to the first user. Preferably, the method further comprises providing a function by which the user can verify whether the URLs that are indicated to be active are URLs for that user, and storing a record of which URLs have been verified for that user. Preferably, the collecting comprises: enabling a third party web service or application to push, to the repository server computer, third party web site identifier information including the identifier the individual user uses on the third party web site. Preferably, the enabling comprises providing an application programming interface (API) for communicating between the repository server and the third party website. Preferably, the method further comprises porting the first identity graph or a portion thereof to a second web page that is not the identity web page or to a second web service or application different than the repository web service. Preferably, the porting comprises placing a code defining a widget on a web page on the different web service or application. Preferably, the porting comprises, responsive to a call from a remote server of a web service or application that is not the repository web service, communicating the identity graph to the remote server. Preferably, the first identity graph comprises a plurality of buttons, each the button providing a link to a public profile page of the first user on a web service or application, each of the web services or applications being a different web service or application than the other web services or applications represented by the other buttons; and the porting comprises transporting one or more of the plurality of buttons to the second web page or second web service or application. Preferably, the first identity graph comprises a repository service web page originating with the repository web service, the web page including a plurality of public profile page buttons, each the button providing a link to a public profile page of the first user on a web service or application, each of the web services or applications being a different web service or application than the other web services or applications corresponding to the other buttons. Preferably, the method further comprises placing a link to the repository service web page on one or more of the public profile pages of the first user corresponding to the public profile page buttons. Preferably, the method further comprises: determining a value characteristic of the percentage of the total number of users of the repository web service that use a selected web service or application; and responsive to a signal from the client computer, communicating the value to the client computer and displaying the value on the client computer. Preferably, the method further comprises determining a value indicative of the percentage of users of a first selected one web service or applications that also use a second selected one of the web services or applications; and responsive to a signal from the client computer, communicating the value to the client computer and displaying the value on the client computer. Preferably, the method further comprises: recording the number of times an internet user has accessed one of the web services or applications URLs stored in the identity graph of a selected user of the repository web services via the repository web service; and responsive to a signal from the client computer, communicating the value to the client computer and displaying the value on the client computer. Preferably, the method further comprises: collecting a first social graph of the first internet user's internet relationships to other users of the Internet, the social graph comprising record of all the users of the repository who have been designated by the first user as a contact; and displaying a summary of the first social graph on a client computer, the summary comprising a plurality of buttons, each of the plurality of buttons linking to the profile page of one of the contacts on the repository web service. Preferably, the buttons comprise pictures of the corresponding contact. Preferably, the method further comprises: determining a value characteristic of the percentage or number of a first user's contacts that utilize a selected web service or application; and responsive to a signal from the client computer, communicating the value to the client computer and displaying the value on the client computer. Preferably, the method further comprises: responsive to a signal indicating a user has clicked on the display of the value for the selected web service or application on the client computer, communicating the contacts that utilize the web service or application to the client computer, and displaying the contacts on the client computer. Preferably, the method further comprises permitting the first internet user to provide permission to make the first identity graph available to others. Preferably, the method further comprises: determining a social rank value for a selected user of the repository internet service, the social rank value comprising the percentile rank of the user in relation to all users of the repository web service in terms of numbers of different web services on which the user is registered; and responsive to a signal from a client computer, communicating the social rank to the client computer and displaying the social rank on the client computer. Preferably, the signal is a request for the profile page of the selected user and the social rank is displayed on the profile page. Preferably, the method further comprises providing a normalized set of a plurality of actions that enable the individual internet user to use the same inputs to perform an action on a plurality of social web sites or applications which, without the normalized set, would require different user inputs to perform the actions on the plurality of social web sites or applications. Preferably, the method further comprises enabling a first individual internet user to select a first the normalized set and a second individual internet user to select a second the normalized set, wherein the first and second normalized sets are different. Preferably, the action is selected from the group consisting of: adding a contact, deleting a contact, sending a message, inviting, blocking, staring, linking, set a trust level, and voting.","In another aspect, the invention provides a method of managing an identity graph repository on a computer, the method comprising: storing on a computer the internet location information for a predetermined plurality of social web sites or applications; receiving at the computer a user identifier corresponding to an individual internet user; automatically via the computer, communicating between the computer and the predetermined plurality of web sites or applications to determine if the user identifier is registered on each of the plurality of web sites; and using the computer, providing an output indicative of on which of the plurality of web sites or applications the user identifier is registered. Preferably, the computer also provides an output indicative of on which of the web sites the user identifier is not registered.","In a further aspect, the invention provides a method of managing an identity graph repository on a first computer, the method comprising: providing a plurality of buttons, each the buttons creating a link to public profile page of an individual internet user on a web site or application, wherein each of the buttons links to a public profile page of a different web site or application; and placing the plurality of button codes on a single page of a web site or application. Preferably, the placing comprises placing the buttons on a page of a web site or application associated with the first computer. Preferably, the placing comprises enabling a code defining buttons to be copied to a web site or application associated with a second computer. Preferably, the buttons are defined by a widget.","In still another aspect, the invention provides a method of managing an identity graph repository on a computer, the method comprising determining a value indicative of the percentage of users of a first web site or application that also use a second web site or application; and outputting the value with the computer.","In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of managing a social graph repository on a first computer comprising: collecting a social graph comprising: a first record of a first individual internet user's relationship to other individual users on a first web site and a second record of the first individual internet user's relationships to other individual users on a second web site; and storing the first and second records in the repository. Preferably, the method further comprises enabling the first and second records to be ported to a web site or application associated with a second computer.","In still a further aspect, the invention provides a method of managing a social web site, the method comprising providing a normalized set of a plurality of actions that enable an individual internet user to use the same inputs to perform an action on a plurality of social web sites which, without the normalized set, would require different user inputs to perform the actions on the plurality of social web sites. Preferably, the method further comprises enabling a first individual internet user to select a first the normalized set and a second individual internet user to select a second the normalized set, wherein the first and second normalized sets are different. Preferably, the action is selected from the group consisting of: adding a contact, deleting a contact, sending a message, inviting, blocking, staring, linking, set a trust level, and voting.","In another aspect, the invention provides a method of managing a social web site or application, the method comprising providing on the social web site or application a normalized data set that enables an individual internet user to use the same inputs to input certain data to a plurality of social web sites or applications which, without the normalized data set, would require different user inputs to enter the certain data on the plurality of social web sites or applications.","In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of managing an internet identity repository, the method comprising: providing an electronic memory for storing one or more identities of an individual internet user and one or more associated internet web sites or internet applications on which the user is registered with the identity; establishing and input process permitting an internet web site, internet application, or internet user to deposit one or more of the internet identities and one or more of the associated web sites or internet applications in the repository; providing a process for the individual internet user to establish one or more conditions for permitting retrieval of one or more of the individual internet user's identities; and permitting an internet web site, internet application, or internet user that meets the established one or more conditions to retrieve one or more of the internet identities and the one or more associated web sites or internet applications from the repository.","In still a further aspect, the invention provides a method of managing an internet identity repository, the method comprising: providing an electronic memory for storing one or more identities of an individual internet user and one or more associated internet web sites or internet applications on which the user is registered with the identity; establishing and input process permitting an internet web site, internet application, or internet user to deposit one or more of the internet identities and one or more of the associated web sites or internet applications in the repository; and providing a process for enabling an internet web site, application or user to discover and compile a list of the individual internet user's one or more identities and the one or more associated web sites or internet applications stored in the repository.","The invention also provides apparatus that performs any of the methods discussed above and further provides a computer readable medium that contains instructions to perform any of the methods.","The invention not only provides a method and apparatus for creating a repository for identity graphs and social graphs without any laborious entering of information, but also provides a method and apparatus for allowing users\u2014and third parties on the users' behalf\u2014to manage, distribute, discover and synchronize their identity information and subsequent social connections online. In linking the identities of a user over the internet, the invention provides an unexpected advantage. When identities are linked internet search engines follow these links and thus a typical internet search will develop many more listings in a search than it would otherwise. Since search engines, such as Google\u2122, rank individuals, entities and web pages associated with the individual or entity by the number of such hits, this linking of identities dramatically increases the ranking of the individual, entity, or web pages associated with the individual or entity higher. This creates important business and social advantages. Numerous other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","This disclosure describes a repository and distribution system  () for collecting users' online identities, and allowing them to be discovered, retrieved and\/or updated through a central access point  by third parties ,  and  and other users , , . The system also includes collection, discovery and distribution of a user's social graph , that is, the user's connections and communities on sites and applications throughout the web (see, ). The system further includes user-set permissions (see below) for access, management and sharing of the user's information. The system also provides analytics, statistics and normalization for operations and data relating to users' behaviors throughout the web (see , , , and ). Thus, the system lends itself to web service or application recommendations and advertising decisions based on the collected identity graphs (IGs), social graphs (SGs) and statistics.","It should be understood that in this disclosure the term \u201cweb site\u201d also means \u201cweb service\u201d and \u201capplication\u201d. The term \u201capplication\u201d means a software application that connects to the internet. While we shall try to use the terms web site, web service and application throughout this disclosure, it should be understood that the use of one includes the others. It should also be understood that the system described herein is currently in the state of development, and those skilled in the art will recognized that many of the elements will be changed in further development iterations. For example, to accelerate the pace of development, software shortcuts are sometimes taken. Thus, it should be recognized that the disclosure is not meant to limit the application, but is intended to be exemplary. It is expected that those skilled in the art will be able to create many variations and more sophisticated versions of the application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","20","34","38","39","40","48","49","40","48","49","50","34","38","39","40","48","49","50","22","20","34","38","39","33","35","36","37","50","20","40","48","42","44","46","34","38","39","32","50","52","56","54","58"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","40","48","49","60","62","64","50","72","74","76","60","62","64","18","72","74","72","74","60","62","64"]},"Turning now to , one embodiment of a collection  of identity graphs , , ,  and  are shown. The user represented by identity graph  has identities on n web sites or applications  through . The specific name the user has on each web site or application may be the same or different. However, even if the names are the same, each web site or application can result in a different identity, since the fact that that person is associated with a particular web site is preferably part of the identity graph. These identities are collected by the system  of the invention into the identity graph . Each of the users represented by identity graphs , ,  and  has identities , , , , respectively, on m, p, q, and r, respectively, different web services or applications, and these identities are collected into identity graphs, , , , and , respectively. The users represented by identity graphs , ,  and  have relationships  with the user represented by IG  on a first web site or application. These relationships  form a part of the social graph  of the user with identity graph . They also will form part of the social graph of each of the users with IG's  through , though this is not specifically indicated in the figure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["104","107","110","111","113","104","76","107","108","106","104","104","10"]},"Another way the IG and SG information may be collected by repository  is to, at the request of the user, go to the various web sites and applications  on which the user has an identity, and retrieve the information. The system provides a widget , which shall be describe below, and, simply by clicking on an icon for the web site or application, the user can use the widget to retrieve information as the user desires. A third way that the system may collect IG or SG information is for the user  to enter the information directly via link . With permission of the user, the system  according to the invention also enables the sharing of the information in repository  with any interested third party . This will also be described below. This sharing through link  provides an additional method for IG or SG information to be passed to repository . Whenever shared information is updated by a third party, this updated information may be transferred back to the repository. In addition, the sharing function encourages third parties to sign up on the system and thus enhances the collection of information.","Turning to , , , , and  there is shown exemplary documentation describing a portion of the method in which third party web services and applications , , and  may interact with the repository .  is shown out of order because the call function for contacts could be completed only after much of the other software was developed. Specifically, , , ,  and  describe how a third party web service or application can obtain an API key and pull IG\/SG information from the repository and push IG\/SG information into the repository.  illustrates a preferred embodiment according to the invention of documentation  of an API call to obtain an identity graph of an Internet user. The documentation  first describes the usefulness of the call, i.e., to learn more about a particular user's other on line services, and explains that the lookup is preferably done via an email address. However, lookups can also be done via other identifiers, particularly if the user requests it. It also notes that the system does not return anything without the user's permission, which is provided via a permissions page (see below) or otherwise, such as through the web service via the API or via the widget described below. The GET is shown at . The get directs the call to the system web site services engine and indicates at  that the request must include an API key and at  that it must include a user identifier. The GET request parameters are described at  and include a parameter column , a type column , and a description column . As indicated, both the API key and the user identifier are preferably strings. We shall discuss below how the caller gets an API key and user identifier and the preferred form of the API key and the user identifier.","The documentation  describes the values returned by the call  at , which description includes a parameter column , a type column  and a description column . All the parameters are preferably strings. The first parameter returned, svcid, is the ID of the service in the repository . The second parameter svcName, is the displayable name of the web service, and is used to output information to users. The fourth parameter returned, usrSvcid, is the unique identifier of the user on the particular web service. As we will see below, the user can specify this. The last parameter returned, URL, is the URL to the user's public portfolio on the particular service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["200","204","206","215","205","208","50","210","212","214","214","216","221","222","230","234","236","238"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["250","50","252","254","256","50","260","262","266","268","266","270","272","274","50","276","50","254","50","280","280","282","284","286","50","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["900","900","906","907","908","910","912","914","916","900","906","920","922","923","924","926","50","930","934","936","947","938","1","939","940","941","947","948","950","3","956","958"]},"A feature of the data returns is that the data is extensible. Attributes of an internet user's identity can be easily added or removed without affecting the overall integrity or usability of the data structure. One web service or user can request a first set of attributes, and another web service or user can request another set of attributes. If a set of attributes is available, but not requested, it can easily be skipped by the return. Preferably, all data stored in the repository  is similarly extensible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["300","10","304","306","308","310","312","314","316","50","318","50","50","332","334","336","340","342","340","332","334","336","338","340","344","350"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["360","50","368","366","364","50","360","390","50","390","300","360","375","378","380","382","50","378","50","380","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["400","10","402","410","412","415","418","420","424","426","415","10","420","421","422","426","404","400","428"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 11B","FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 12","FIG. 11B","FIG. 11A","FIG. 13","FIG. 14"],"b":["430","440","60","62","64","50","430","430","50","463","465","433","432","434","430","433","500","434","431","430","50","441","442","441","446","447","442","446","443","444","448","459","450","454","459","454","450","450","458","460","442","466","472","467","438","436","457","457","478","570","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 4","FIGS. 11A and 11B"],"b":["500","114","500","504","530","532","532","536","538","532","530","540","541","542","543","540","540","510","511","511","449","451","450","460","440","510","510","510","500","530","510","10","530","530","510"]},"Page  also provides a variety of badges , , , , and  that also can be generated on any web site or application by copying the code or widget corresponding to that badge to the desired web site or application. The appropriate widget is dynamically presented in the window  by clicking on the corresponding button , , , etc. A variety of different badges of a variety of sizes and shapes are provided so that a user or a web service or application can find one that integrates easily into the desired web page or application. Any of the badges, such as , is a link to a page that is shown in  or , which will be discussed below.","It should be understood that a widget function such as just described can be created for each of the relationships of a particular user.  below illustrates a call used for transporting the user's social graph (See ). That is, the user's social graph can be transported to any web site or function in the same manner as just described for the user's identity graph. In summary, the widget function shown in  permits any user, or a web service or application, preferably with permission from the user, to retrieve and display the user's identities off the repository site  and the widget function of  permits any user, web, service or application, with permission of the user, to retrieve and display the user's contacts off the repository site . It allows anyone to create an identity graph, such as  or a social graph, such as  in , on any web site. For example, an individual user can build an identity graph of herself or himself, an identity graph of each of their friends, and a social graph of themselves and their friends on their own blog, or any other site. The social graph function discussed below displays to a user all their friends on particular web sites and allows the user to designate whether each individual friend should also be a friend on other web sites that on which the friend is registered. This can be done individually for each web site or application and each friend, or be done globally for all web sites or applications and\/or for all friends. In addition, a web site or application, using the widget  of , can take a similar action via calls to the API, which allows the web site to retrieve and\/or display social graph information of their users. In short, the invention makes identities, identity graphs, relationships and social graphs easily portable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 10","FIG. 13","FIG. 22"],"b":["550","552","554","555","550","551","553","550","557","558","400","550","560","570","560","562","565","563","574","572","574","575","576","577","576","50","570","567","568","569","569","569"]},"The \u201cView My Profile button\u201d  takes the user to this page , and is available on most pages of the system . The \u201cIn Box\u201d button  takes the user to a page that permits the user to send and receive messages. The \u201cMy Profile\u201d button  takes the user to a page such as  shown in  that permits the user to edit the user's profile. The \u201cMy Identities\u201d button  takes the user to a page such as  () which allows the user to edit and manage the user's identities on the user's services. The \u201cMy Contacts\u201d button  takes the user to a page on which the user can edit his or her contacts. The Share function of button  will be explained in connection with  below. The analytics function  will be discussed in connection with  below. The \u201cMy API\u201d profile button  takes the user to a page such as  () which permits a user to obtain and modify an API key. The Social Rank number at  shows the percentile rank of the user in relation to all users of the repository site in terms of numbers of different web services on which the user is registered. The process of determining this ranking will be discussed in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 10"],"b":["600","610","50","610","640","610","510","612","614","614","600","630","632","400"]},"The People Search feature  shown in  is on many pages of the web site generated by repository management system  and is a very useful feature of the invention. Clicking on the arrow  opens a drop down menu listing the service IDs of all the web sites and applications in the list  of . Clicking on one of the service IDs in the drop down menu, enters it in box . Entering an identifier in box  and activating the search button  will take you to the public profile in the repository management system  of the user associated with that particular identifier on the web service or application entered in box . Thus, if you know the identifier that a friend uses on a particular web site or application, you can find their public profile on the web service of the repository management system . As can be seen from the URL , this particular example of a page  was brought up by entering the Twitter service ID in box  and Sara Czyzewicz's identifier, sara6633, in box  and clicking on the search button . Then, by using any of the icons  the user that found Sara on the web site according to the invention, can then easily go to the public profile page of Sara on any of the web sites on which she is registered. Thus, it is evident that the combination of the People Search feature  and the icon summary  allows a user to discover the entire web identity of any friend who has entered the appropriate permissions. As an example,  shows the public profile page of Sara Czyzewicz on the LAST.FM web site. This public profile page was reached by clicking on the LAST.FM icon  on Sara's public page of the repository management system  of the invention . Note that Sara's identifier for this web site is \u201csaraolive\u201d, which is different from her identifier on Twitter. In this way, one has obtained a new identifier of Sara, and can use it to find her on other web sites. An easy way of doing this, is to enter \u201csaraolive\u201d in the search box  of the Manage Services page  () which will automatically show each of the web sites and applications on which this identifier is used. A feature of the invention that is being implemented is to automatically perform the entire search and discovery function given just one identifier of a friend.","While the People Search feature has been described in terms of a window and drop down menu, it should be understood the same function can be accessed in other ways. For example, in a current embodiment, it is available via an API. That is, third parties can request the same information from the repository via an API extension to that described above. Those skilled in the art will understand how this is implemented from the above discussions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 2"],"b":["700","700","701","700","78","50","56","50","700","700","721","723","50","727","702","708","706","704","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16","FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIG. 16"],"b":["700","78","17","740","709","740","749","754","750","753","751","768","752","772","770","740","78"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 18B","FIG. 18B"],"b":["800","820","10","802","802","106","800","820","802","808","810","810","821","821","814","822","818","50","822","821","802","827","827","828","829","50","821","822","802","50","802","50","818"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 8","FIG. 11A","FIG. 12","FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIG. 14","FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 12"],"b":["832","300","834","50","830","500","50","550","600","50","836","838","830","846","844","10","830","50","802","848"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["870","10","50"]},"The normalization process  is started at . At , information relating to form and code for operations, interactions, data requests, and data for social space web sites and applications is collected and stored. At , the system  provides a web page to permit users to enter their preferences for form of operations, interactions, and data requests. User information is collected at , preferably as in profile page  (). The system  provides, at , a web page or pages for a user to input desired operations, interactions, and\/or data requests and designation(s) of web site(s) and\/or application(s) on which operations, interactions, and\/or data requests are to be performed. At , operations, interactions, data requests and\/or data are translated to the appropriate form(s) and code(s) for the user designated web site(s) and\/or application(s). At , the system  communicates with designated web site(s) and\/or application(s) to perform the user-desired operations, interactions, and\/or data requests. The system  then, at , confirms to the user that the desired operations, interactions, and\/or data requests have been performed on designated web sites. At , upon receiving a user request, the system  provides a web page or pages for the user to update information and\/or make new requests for operations, interactions, and\/or data requests, then displays or otherwise communicates to the user, the user operations, interactions, and\/or data requests to be made to update user's information and actions on web site(s) and\/or applications(s), and gives the user an opportunity to edit the same. The system then, at , receives user input, translates the operations, interactions, data requests and\/or data to the appropriate form(s) and code(s) for the designated web site(s) and\/or application(s), and finally performs the newly requested operations, interactions and\/or data requests and update user information on designated web sites. The process then ends at , though it may be re-entered at  at any time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 22","FIG. 13"],"b":["1000","586","585","550","1000","1005","1006","1006","1008","1006","1010","1000"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 13","FIG. 23"],"b":["1020","50","592","1024","1030","1080","1100","1030","1070","1100","1030","1033","1035","1037","1020","570","550","1040","1041","1042","1043","1044","1045","1047","1049","1050","1053"]},"The Site States page  is shown in . As indicated at , the Site Stats show a breakdown of the percentage of total accesses of the user's profile page that are coming from each of the web services to which the identity graph ,  of the user has been ported. The percentage as a number is shown in column , the percentage in the form of a bar graph is shown in column , and the URL of the web service is shown in column . Again, by clicking on one of the buttons in row , the user can choose between the accesses in the last 24 hours, the accesses in the last seven days, the accesses in the last 30 days, and the accesses in the last 365 days. As indicated in the Site Stats, 87.5% of the accesses in the last twenty four hours have been through DandyID, 6.25% have been through Facebook, and 6.25% of the accesses have been through TheMissSmithWebsite, presumably because the user is listed there as a contact. Only a portion of site stats are shown in  to conserve space. The Users analytics button  accesses a page which shows the other DandyID users who have clicked through to view your page on one or more of your services. This page is not shown, as its form is similar to that of . On this page, each user is shown in one column, percentage of accesses via that user is shown in a bar graph, and the number of times that user has accessed one of your services as well as the numerical percentage is shown in another column.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 26","FIG. 27","FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1082","1080","50","1084","1085","1088","1090","1092","1094","1200","1204","1206","1210","1222","1214","1220","1300","596","1302","1304","574","1306","1310","1315","1320","100","1325","596","1330"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 29"],"b":["1400","1402","1404","50","1406","1410","430","1415","1420","50","1440","1424","1430","1434","1424","1424","1430","1434","1440","1445","1450","1424","1434","1440","1400","1410","1445","1400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 13"],"b":["1500","10","1502","1504","550","50","1510","1518","1524","587","560","1530","1534"]},"A feature of the invention is the manner of collecting the statistics discussed above. Preferably, all access to links available on or via the repository  can be normalized. That is, all links point toward a URL associated with the invention, which then redirects to the link's final destination. For example, the URL associated with the profile shown in  is http:\/\/www.dandyid.org\/id\/sara, and if a user were to access Sara's Facebook profile by clicking on the Facebook icon  the link would go to http:\/\/www.dandyid.org\/id\/sara\/facebook. Thus, while the http:\/\/www.dandyid.org\/id\/sara site does not appear to be accessed, except for perhaps for a temporary flicker of the screen, the access actually passes through the invention before the user is directed to Sara's profile at http:\/\/www.facebook.com\/saraczyzewicz. As it passes through the invention numerous statistics are collected including the date and time, the referring site, referring host, ip address, etc. It should also be noted that type of URL redirection (sometimes referred to as URL forwarding) used by the invention in this process affects the ranking of the link's final destination in popular search engines. Thus the invention provides the ability for users to explicitly manage the type of URL redirection used in the process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 13"],"b":["1600","1602","590","1604","50","1608","50","1612","1618","574","560","1620","1625","1630","1635","1640"]},"The invention also includes a permissions page, though this is not expressly shown as it is similar to pages already discussed and will be clear from these discussions. A permissions page includes a listing, similar to  () of all the web services, application, and users registered with the repository management system . For each such entity, there are entries, preferably each under a separate column, for the user to grant specific permissions, such as the permission to share public data, the permission to share certain data, such as photographs or relationships, the permission to share private data, or only specific private data, such as email addresses. A user can grant permissions globally, globally for specific permissions, or individually. The permissions can be for within the repository web site , or for other web sites, either individually or globally. Permissions are preferably data specific. That is, permissions for a first piece of data may be different for a second piece of data. For example, one my restrict viewing of data on Twitter to only specific family members, while viewing of data on Linkedin is restricted only to professional contacts. One listing, similar to , for web sites and applications is generated by activating a Service Permissions button, and another listing of individual users is generated by clicking a User Permissions button. Preferably, the User Permissions button activates a drop down menu with a set of alphabetic buttons, a, b, c, d, etc., each of which generates the users whose identities begin with that letter of the alphabet. Service Permissions button may also activate a drop down menu that allows selection of services either alphabetically or by service types, or both.","A feature of the invention is that it provides an identity graph and the ability for a user to manage the identity graph and makes the identity graph portable to other web sites and applications.","A related feature of the invention is that it provides an social graph and the ability for a user to manage the social graph and makes the social graph portable to other web sites and applications.","Another feature of the invention is that it permits identity and social graph discovery, autodiscovery, recording and updating.","Still another feature of the invention is that it provides an identity graph and social graph analysis and statistics package, which are also portable to different web sites.","Yet another feature of the invention is that it provides for normalization of actions and data over the social web site and applications space, particularly that space relating to identity graphs and social graphs.","There has been described a novel system and method for creation, portability, and normalization of actions and data in the social web and application space. The identity and social graphs and the openness of the system results in a highly desirable comprehensive and decentralized internet identity graph, social graph and repository management system. The system is simple, universal, and economical, without requiring any additional data entry above what normally occurs when individuals register at a web site. In fact, the system reduces the requirement for data entry since the system requires only one entry to normalize data across the entire social web space, and is able to go out and find all identities of a user if only one is known, as well as find all web sites and applications to which a target user belongs. This reduces internet traffic because one does not have to get this information by trial and error. It also reduces internet traffic in that it significantly lowers the numbers of errors in performing actions and entering data, since each user selects a preferred system. Since the user constantly uses the same form of actions and data, it is easier for the user to remember how to perform actions and the names for different types of data. A feature that significantly reduces internet traffic is that all the web sites and applications on which a user is registered can be managed from a single site. The invention has numerous other novel features and advantages. For example, the invention can be integrated into any web site at little cost or labor.","It should be understood that the particular embodiments shown in the drawings and described within this specification are for purposes of example and should not be construed to limit the invention, which will be described in the claims below. Further, it is evident that those skilled in the art may now make numerous uses and modifications of the specific embodiment described, without departing from the inventive concepts. Equivalent structures and processes may be substituted for the various structures and processes described; the subprocesses of the inventive method may, in some instances, be performed in a different order; or a variety of different structural embodiments and elements may be used. Consequently, the invention is to be construed as embracing each and every novel feature and novel combination of features present in and\/or possessed by the identity and social graph repository management apparatus and methods described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14","FIG. 11B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 18A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 29","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 30"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
