---
title: Apparatus for control of stator wakes
abstract: The invention as disclosed is an apparatus that controls the wake of stator blades on an underwater vehicle. The apparatus comprises one or more stator blades each with a movable trailing edge that when actuated in a controlled manner produces a periodic flapping motion upstream of a propulsion rotor. The controlled periodic flapping of the trailing edge the fills the stator blade wake enough to overcome the stator blade's own drag and fill its wake deficit. This has the effect of reducing the blade rate tonal noise of the propulsion rotor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08042483&OS=08042483&RS=08042483
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08042483
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090918
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention is directed to stator blades and rotor blades on an underwater vehicle. In particular, the present invention is directed to an apparatus to reduce stator blade rate tonal noise through altering the mean and instantaneous characteristics of the rotor blade inflow.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Conventional stator blades on the hulls of underwater vehicles add swirl to the propeller inflow that increases the efficiency of the propeller through the cancellation of the swirl generated by the propeller. However, stator blades and other upstream appendages also produce discrete wakes due to the velocity deficit caused by viscosity of the fluid moving over the stator blade surface. When a propeller blade meets these velocity deficits during the rotation of the propeller, sudden variations of force are produced. These regular unsteady force disturbances create a recognizable noise, the blade rate signature. This noise can be used to detect and identify the vehicle. Experiments using \u201cswirl inducing stator upstream of propeller propulsors\u201d have highlighted the effect of sharp stator wakes on propulsor radiated noise. Anytime the inflow to the rotor is circumferentially unsteady, caused by the wakes of upstream appendages, control fins, guide vanes, or stators, for instance, the loading on the rotor blades is unsteady and periodic with the blade rate. In the case of swirl inducing stator upstream of propeller propulsors the sharp wake deficits behind the stators result in unsteady loading and distinguishable peaks in the noise spectra at harmonics of the blade rate, with the frequency of the peaks in the spectra dependent on the number of stator and rotor blades. This radiated noise signature can be used to classify vehicles using sonar.","Swimming and flying animals use flapping wings or fins to produce thrust and maneuvering forces. They do this through the creation of an alternating vortex wake, similar to the drag wake seen behind cylinders in a flow but with opposite sign. The discrete vortices form a thrust jet through the center of the vortex street which accelerates fluid away from the fin, accelerating the animal forward. This same effect can be used to fill a stator or guide vane wake, but rather than create a vortex wake powerful enough to produce net thrust as is the case with animal fins, the stators can be flapped just enough to overcome its own drag and fill its wake deficit.","Currently, there is a need to reduce or eliminate the radiated noise signature of rotors through the use of a simple flapping motion of the trailing edge of a stator blade in order to fill its mean wake deficit to reduce unsteady loading on the rotor blades. Interaction between the rotor blades and the discrete vortices in the flapping stator wake may increase unsteady loading on the rotor without careful timing. Through active control of the stator oscillations the timing of rotor blades passing through the wake can be chosen to minimize the periodic loads on the rotors. This reduction in the unsteady loading will diminish blade rate harmonic tones.","It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to reduce or eliminate the radiated noise signature of rotors.","The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of a flapping motion of the movable trailing edge of a stator blade in order to fill its mean wake deficit to reduce unsteady loading on the rotor blades. Interaction between the rotor blades and the discrete vortices in the flapping stator wake may increase unsteady loading on the rotor without careful timing. Through active control of the stator oscillations the timing of rotor blades passing through the wake can be chosen to minimize the periodic loads on the rotors. This reduction in the unsteady loading will diminish blade rate harmonic tones.","Referring to  there is illustrated a diagram of the present invention as implemented on the hull of a submersible vehicle. The vehicle hull  has on its stern a series of stator blades . The stator blades  are designed to be in a fixed position on the vehicle hull . As the submersible vehicle is propelled through water, the stator blades  have a tendency to induce a swirl in the water surrounding the stator blades . The vehicle hull  also has on its stern a series of rotor blades . The rotor blades  are designed to rotate around an axis point within the vehicle hull  to propel the vehicle. The flapping stator mechanism of the present invention is upstream of the rotor blades on a submersible vehicle. The stator blade  is made of two parts: the static leading edge  and the oscillating trailing edge  which pivots about a shaft  where it meets the static leading edge  piece. The pivot of the trailing edge  runs into the hull where the shaft  is connected to a motor  within the vehicle hull . A motor  and cam  actuate the trailing edge  to produce the oscillating motion. Alternatively, a direct drive  can be used instead of a cam  for the trailing edge  oscillations to provide more control over amplitude and allow more transient, non-periodic motions if desired.","When oscillating, the trailing edge  of the stator blade  periodically pitches back and forth to produce a thrust vortex street that fills its wake deficit. The flapping motion of the trailing edge , a sinusoidal oscillation of the flap on an otherwise fixed wing, only produces thrust to compensate for the stator blade  drag, an inconsequential amount of drag relative to the total vehicle drag. It is not for propulsive purposes. Depending on the timing between the rotor blades  and the shed vorticity from the stator, the unsteady forces on the rotor blades  may be reduced. Active control is used to alter the frequency and\/or amplitude of the motion of the trailing edge  to fill the wake depending on inflow velocity speed and necessary timing between shed vortices and the rotor blades . Active control of the stator wakes diminishes unsteady loading of the rotor blades, reducing blade rate tonal noise.","In an alternative embodiment as illustrated in , artificial muscle technology can be used to oscillate the stator trailing edge while allowing the stator to be one seamless piece consisting of a rigid leading edge , compliant muscle wires  and rigid trailing edge .","The advantage of the present invention is that it can reduce blade tonal noise signatures through a simple actuation of the stator trailing edge in a propulsor that involves rotor blades passing through the wakes of stators, guide vanes, control fins and other appendages.","While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention, it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally, feature(s) and\/or element(s) from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment(s). Therefore, it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments, which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be more readily appreciated by referring to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
