---
title: Document vault and application platform
abstract: Online document storage and/or retrieval techniques are described. In an implementation, one or more computer-readable media comprising instructions that are executable to provide a web service application programming interface (API). The web service API is configured to accept a document and information specified by the document's provider. The information specifying which of a plurality of tabs in a user interface at least a portion of data included in the document is to be associated with for display in which at least one of the tabs pertains to billing data and another one of the tabs does not pertain to billing data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620778&OS=08620778&RS=08620778
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08620778
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090120
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Online data storage has been developed to allow user to access to data, such as documents over a network. In a typical online storage scenario, a web browser may be used to access documents that are stored on a remote server.","However, even though online document storage permits users to access the document from various locations, online document storage was inefficient. Often times, the documents and related data are associated with several accounts, stored on different servers, and so on. For example, a user may have a HOTMAIL (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash.) account to store electronic mail\/documents as attachments, a WEB MD (WebMD LLC, New York, N.Y.) account to store medical records, and a bill pay account to store bills and bank statements. Consequently, online document storage is tedious and inconvenient, and as a result, users may limit online document storage to key documents.","Online document storage and\/or retrieval techniques are described. In an implementation, one or more computer-readable media comprise instructions that are executable to provide a web service application programming interface (API). The web service API is configured to accept a document and information specified by the document's provider. The information specifies which of a plurality of tabs in a user interface at least a portion of data included in the document is to be associated with for display in which at least one of the tabs pertains to billing data and another one of the tabs does not pertain to billing data.","In a further implementation, a billing statement and information specified by the billing statement's provider are accepted automatically. The information specifies which of a plurality of tabs in a user interface at least a portion of data included in the billing statement is to be associated with for display. The implementation further includes accepting a document that is not a billing statement with information specified by the document's provider. The information specifies which of a plurality of tabs in a user interface at least a portion of data included in the document is to be associated with for display. A user interface is configured to be accessible via a network by a browser. The user interface is configured to provide access to the at least a portion of data included in the billing statement that is organized according to the information specified by the billing statement's provider. The user interface is also configured to provide access to the at least a portion of data included in the document organized according to the information specified by the document's provider.","In another implementation, one or more computer-readable media comprise instructions that are executable to organize display of at least a portion of data included in a billing statement based on information specified by the billing statement's provider. The information specifies which of a plurality of tabs in a user interface the at least a portion of data is to be associated with for display. The instruction are also configured to present an advertisement selected from a plurality of advertisements based on the at least a portion of data to collect revenue.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Overview","Conventional online data storage providers (e.g., mycheckfree.com, WebMD.com) may limit what data and documents may be stored to a particular type of data and documents. Types of documents may include, medical records, billing records, school records, and so on. However, limiting online document storage may result in inefficient access as users are forced to store documents among numerous data storage providers. For example, a user may have accounts spread across a variety of websites, such as a medical history website, a billing service website, and a social networking website. Furthermore, online document storage may be complicated by storage providers that use different interfaces, rules, account numbers, and passwords. As a result, users often choose to limit online document storage to key documents.","Online document storage and\/or retrieval techniques are described. In an implementation, a web service application program interface (API) is configured to organize (e.g., accept, store, arrange, and so on) different types of documents for display. A web front end may be used by an application to display each document based on information provided with the document. For example, the web service API may accept the document and information from the document's provider. By configuring the web service API in this manner, the web service API may use the information to organize under which tab in a user interface the data included in the document and\/or the document is to be displayed when accessed via a web front end. In this way, a browser may be used to access documents and data included in the documents via a network and the web front end. The user interface using the web front end may display the data and documents according to the information specified by the document's provider. For example, the web front end may display a billing statement for a medical test and a medical record for the medical test under a medical tab. In the previous example, the web service API may also organize storage of the data from the medical record and billing statement in a common directory.","Although the information provided with a document may reflect data in the document, in some instances the information may be different. For example, the information may be an email that includes a document. The web service API may use the information to organize display of the document and\/or data included in the document in a user interface. In an example, a user interface may display telephone bill data under a tab for a month using the web front end corresponding to the telephone bill's due date as organized by the web service API.","An application can be developed using the platform API, to make use of the web service API and\/or the web front end in generating and\/or displaying a report that contains data included in the document. In one implementation, the application links the data included in the document to the document itself. Thus, to view a telephone bill via the application and the web front end, a user can click-on data included in the telephone bill. For example, a user may click-on a billing amount, a telephone company name, or a due date in the report to display the telephone bill.","In the following discussion, an example environment and systems are first described that is operable to perform one or more techniques that may be use to organize display of documents stored online. Example procedures are then described that may be implemented using the example environment as well as other environments. Accordingly, implementation of the procedures is not limited to the environment and the environment is not limited to implementation of the procedures.","Example Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","110","100","108"]},"The storage resource  is operable to store documents  and data  included in the documents  for access via the network . For convenience in the discussion, at times data  included in the document  may also be referred to as data . While the foregoing convention is used, at times data may refer to other data and so on. The applicable meaning may be determined from the context of the discussion. The storage resource  may also store information from the document provider  that is included with but not in the document .","The storage resource  may be configured to store multiple types of documents . The storage resource  may store financial and non-financial documents  in a single account. For example, the storage resource  may be used to store billing statements , receipts, rebates, resumes, records, correspondence, and so on.","Moreover, the storage resource  may store documents  in different formats. Example document formats include but are not limited to, WORD (Microsoft, Corp., Redmond Wash.), ADOBE ACROBAT (Adobe Systems, San Jose, Calif.), rich text format, tagged image files, and so forth. As discussed above, the storage resource  may store data. For example, the storage resource  may also store information that is associated with a document .","As further illustrated, the storage resource  includes a document and application platform API  (platform API), a web front end , a web service API , and memory . By configuring the platform API  and the web service API  in this manner, application developers may have access to the code used to implement the platform API . This may also permit document providers  to specify what information is to be used to organize display of the document  and\/or consumption of the document .","The platform API , the web front end , and\/or the web service API  may be stored in memory , or stored in another memory until called on by one or more processor associated with the storage resource . Although the web service API  is illustrated on the storage resource , the web service API  may reside in a variety of locations.","The platform API  is representative of functionality that is operable to organize display of documents  and data  in memory  in conjunction with the web service API . For example, the platform API  and the web service API  may organize display of data  and documents  so that the data  and documents  are each displayed in association with one or more of a plurality of tabs. In this way the platform API  may act as a platform for one or more application that may interact with the document and\/or data. In addition, the platform API  may be used to develop applications that may consume the documents  and\/or data . Although the web service API  and web front end  are illustrated separately, in some implementations the web service API  and\/or the web front end  may be combined or included as part of the platform API .","In one or more embodiments, an application built with the platform API  may use the web front end  to access a report that includes data . For example, an application may leverage the platform API  as part of generating the report. The report may include data  for a document  or group of documents. The web service API  may associate data  with the document . For example, the web service API  may link the data  with the document . As a result, a user may be able to click-on the data  in the report to access the document .","The web front end  may also be configured to maintain multiple accounts. The web front end  may use the accounts to limit access, allocate storage capacity, and so on. In addition, the web front end  may use the accounts to control organization of documents  in the account.","In another implementation, the web front end  and the platform API  are configured to share data and documents  among accounts. Thus, the web front end  and the platform API  may permit users to send a copy of a document  and\/or data  to other accounts with the storage resource . For instance, the web front end  and the platform API  may permit a husband and wife to share financial documents  among their respective accounts. When sharing documents , the web front end  may display the document  based on how the document  was displayed in an originating account. For example, when the web front end  displays a document  as associated with a resume tab in a first account, the web front end  may be used to display the document  with a resume tab in a second account.","In one or more embodiments, the web service API , web front end , and\/or the platform API  may perform additional functions. Additional functions may include, but is not limited to, extracting data  from content that forms a document , consuming the content that forms the document, and\/or authenticating access to accounts with the storage resource  and\/or document providers . For example, the web service API  may be configured to extract data  included in the document  for inclusion in a report. In this way, application providers may configure applications to consume data from the document providers forwarded via the storage resource .","In another example, the web service API  may perform authentication functions. Thus, the web service API  may provide a user name and a password to the billing statement provider  (e.g., AT&T that calls the web service API ) such that a user may avoid manual authentication with the billing statement provider .","The web service API  is representative of functionality to interface with applications\/programs that supply data for storage. For example, the web service API  may be used to store a billing statement (e.g., a utility bill) accepted from billing statement provider , e.g., a utility company's billing system. In another example, an application built on the platform API  may use the web service API  to obtain data and\/or documents from the document provider . For example, a bill application may specify account information with a billing statement provider such that the web service API  may retrieve the documents and\/or data.","By configuring the web service API  in this manner, the document providers  may send information that specifies how the document  is to be organized by the web service API . Example information for the utility bill example (above) may include bill amount, due date, billing month, and so on. As noted above, this information may correspond with data  included in the document  itself.","Applications built using the platform API  may interact with the stored data and documents using the platform API  to organize (e.g., access, manipulate, and so on) data  and documents  in the memory . Thus, the application may appear as a tab in a user interface  through the web front end . In this way, applications may leverage the web front end  and\/or web service API  when interacting with the data.","In one or more embodiments, the storage resource  includes applications that interact with the data and documents . The applications may leverage the web front end  and\/or the web service API  to store\/interact with the data. In additional instances, the application may be accessed in other ways, e.g., in a remote access session.","Although a single memory  is shown for the storage resource , a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed, such as random access memory (RAM), hard disk memory, removable medium memory, and other types of computer-readable media. While the memory  is illustrated as included in the storage resource , in some embodiments the memory  may be comprised of separate devices that are associated with the storage resource . For example, a redundant array of independent disks (RAID) may be used to store data.","The client  is further illustrated as including a processor  and memory . Processors are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example, processors may be comprised of semiconductor(s) and\/or transistors (e.g., electronic integrated circuits (ICs)). In such a context, processor-executable instructions may be electronically-executable instructions. Additionally, although the client  is illustrated with a single memory , a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed, such as random access memory (RAM), hard disk memory, removable medium memory, and other types of computer-readable media.","As illustrated, the client  includes a user interface  that is output in a web browser . The user interface  is representative of functionality to interact with the applications via the web front end  and the browser  over the network . Interacting may include but is not limited to managing, manipulating, outputting, and\/or accessing data on the storage resource . For example, the user interface  may display a report that includes data  for one or more documents  stored on the storage resource . The user interface  may interact with the platform API  and thus data in memory  using the web service API . In some embodiments, the user interface  may be downloaded from the storage resource , stored in the memory , partially maintained on the storage resource  and on the client , and so forth.","The document provider  and the billing statement provider  represent entities that forward data for online storage. Example document and billing statement providers ,  include, but are not limited to, phone service providers, retailers, utilities, employment service, and health care providers. The document provider  and the billing statement provider  may provide different types of documents. Example document types include, but are not limited to financial, non-financial, medical, and so on.","In some instances, information and documents  may be communicated through a third party. For example, a hospital may forward the client  an email that includes a medical record. In turn, the client  may re-forward the email message and\/or the medical record to the storage resource . Forwarding is discussed in further detail with respect to .","Although the network  is illustrated as the Internet, the network  may assume a wide variety of configurations. For example, the network  may be a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless network, a public telephone network, an intranet, and so on. Further, although a single network  is shown, the network  may be configured to include multiple networks. A wide variety of other instances are also contemplated.","Generally, any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software, firmware (e.g., fixed logic circuitry), manual processing, or a combination of these implementations. The terms \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201cfunctionality,\u201d \u201cservice,\u201d and \u201clogic\u201d as used herein generally represent software, firmware, or a combination of software and firmware. In the case of a software implementation, the module, functionality, or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor (e.g., CPU or CPUs). The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices, such as the memory. The features of the online data storage and\/or retrieval techniques described herein are platform-independent, meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","102","108","112","102","202","204","108","206","204","206","112","114","112"]},"In some implementations, the email forwarding module  is provided as an applet or a plug-in that may be downloaded for use with the email application . In other instances, the functionality provided by the email forwarding module  may be provided on behalf of the email application . For example, the user interface  may be used to forward emails and\/or documents (e.g., attachments) for the email application .","The email forwarding module  may forward a document  for online storage. In other instances, the email forwarding module  may forward the document  and an email message that contains the document  as an attachment to the storage resource . The email forwarding module  may forward the (original) document  and email or a copy of the document  and email.","In an implementation, the email forwarding module  is configured to cause the email application  to present an icon, such as a button, that is operable to automatically forward an email message and\/or a document  attached to the email (e.g., an email attachment) to the storage resource . For example, selection of the button may cause the email application to forward the document  for storage in an account on the storage resource . In the previous example, the document  may have been received from one of the document providers .","In other implementations, the email forwarding module  applies a set of rules to incoming emails to automatically forward documents  for online storage. In this way, the email forwarding module  may automatically forward documents  without user intervention. For example, the set of rules may specify that emails from a user's doctor are to be stored online. In the previous example, the user may establish or override the set of rules. The email forwarding module  may check whether the email meets the set of rules based on one or more of the email, data in the email, and so forth.","As noted above, the billing statement provider  includes the forwarding module . The forwarding module  is representative of functionality to forward a document . For example, the forwarding module  may forward a document  associated with a financial transaction. For example, the forwarding module  may be included in an electronic payment system for the billing statement provider . Example electronic payments may be made in a variety of ways. For example, payment methods include, but are not limited to, credit cards, gift cards, consumer accounts, check cards, debit cards, customer identification cards, electronic checks, and so forth.","The payment methods may implement various technologies. Example technologies include but are not limited to magnetic encoded information, information communicated using a radio frequency technology, and so forth.","In an implementation, the storage resource  may obtain account information from the forwarding module . The account specified by the account information may be associated with online storage capacity reserved for a particular user. For example, the forwarding module  may obtain account information from financial information (e.g., credit card information) used to conclude a financial transaction. In this way, the forwarding module  may identify that a credit card used to purchase an item belongs to a user who has an account with the storage resource .","While account information may be obtained from the financial information itself, in other instances the account information may be included with the financial information. For example, a user's online storage account may be included with the financial information, e.g. debit card information.","In an implementation, the forwarding module  may be configured to forward data associated with the financial transaction to the storage resource . For example, the forwarding module  may forward a document  that is associated with a financial transaction. Documents  may include a billing statement, a receipt, a rebate, a coupon, a warranty, product information, and so forth. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.","Additionally,  illustrates an example implementation in which authentication techniques are discussed. Although forwarding techniques and structures were also described with regard to  it is to be apparent that the forwarding techniques and structures may be used separately or in combination with the described authentication techniques, structures, and approaches.","As illustrated, the web service API  and web front end  include authentication modules, respectively, ,  and the document provider  includes an authentication module . The authentication modules , , and  are representative of functionality to control access, storage of documents , data, and information. For example the authentication modules ,  may authenticate for the web front end  account logins for multiple users and\/or with document providers . Accordingly, the authentication module  may be used to authenticate documents providers  and\/or billing statement providers . Account logins, such as via the web front end  and authentication module  may include entering a user name, a password, questions used to determine whether a human is entering data (e.g., human interaction proof (HIP)). For example, the user interface , that accesses the storage resource  via the web front end , may display a HIP challenge and a request for a user name and password before access is granted to an account with the storage resource . In addition, authentication may involve the use of question used to confirm an identity of user. For example, the user may be asked to provide answer to a personal question, such as where the user was born.","In some implementations, the authentication module  may automatically authenticate with one or more document providers . For example, the authentication module may automatically authenticate with the authentication module such that a user can access the document provider  without performing a manual authentication. The authentication modules may perform the automatic authentication at a variety of times. For example, the authentication modules ,  may automatically authenticate in response to a user linking to a document  provided by the document provider , and so forth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["300","300"]},"As illustrated, the storage resource  may store one or more advertisements  in the memory . For example, the platform API  using the web front end  may present an advertisement  and data for display on the user interface . In other instances, the web front end  may present an advertisement  separate from a display of data  or a document  that triggers presentation of the advertisement . For example, the platform API  may present an email advertisement in an email on the user's cell phone after the user views the document  with the user interface .","In one or more examples, the web front end  performs targeted advertising based on information or data  included in a document . In this way, the web front end  may present an advertisement  for a product or service based on data  included in the document . For instance, the web front end  may present an advertisement  for a cell phone service when data  included in the document  identifies the document  as a cell phone statement. Moreover, the web front end  may target advertisements when data changes. For example, the web front end  may provide an advertisement for cell phone service based on an increase in a cell phone billing statement in comparison to a previous cell phone billing statement.","The web service API  may be configured to accept advertising from the document provider . For example, when the billing statement provider  sends a billing statement, the web service API  may offer the billing statement provider  an opportunity to pay for presentation of an advertisement  to be displayed when the billing statement is accessed.","The web service API  and\/or the web front end  may also perform other revenue generation and advertising functions. Revenue generation functions may include data storage functions that are associated with generating revenue. The web service API  and\/or the web front end  may allocate storage capacity in memory  based on whether an account is scheduled to receive advertisements . As a result, an account may be allocated more storage space in memory  when the account receives advertisements . The amount of storage capacity allocated to an account may depend on a variety of factors. Example factors include whether advertisements  are viewed, a rate at which documents are received, and so forth.","In other instances, the web front end  may permit users to opt out of receiving advertisements. For example, the web service API  and\/or the web front end  may be configured to allocate storage space based on monthly fee model. In this scenario, the web front end  may assess a monthly fee based on an account's storage capacity. A variety of other examples are also contemplated, further discussion of which may be found in relation to the following procedures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIGS. 4 through 6","FIGS. 1 through 3","FIGS. 4 through 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["130","402","402","118","120","122","400","500","600","130","404","406","408","410","412","122"]},"The web front end  may organize display in the user interface  based on information specified by the document provider. For example, a billing statement provider may forward information that specifies that the document is a billing statement for home telephone service. Thus, in this instance, the user interface  displays data included in the home telephone service billing statement when the bill tab  is selected.","The report  may be generated by an application built on the platform API  of . For the purposes of example only and not limitation, the report  is illustrated as being organized in a bills tab . As illustrated the report  includes data for two billing statements. The first billing statement is associated with data that describes a cell phone, 39.95, Mar. 24, 2008, and February. The second billing statement is associated with the data home phone, 30.25, Mar. 29, 2008, and February. As illustrated in , the data displayed in the report  may be linked with a document. In the current implementation, a billing application may leverage the platform API  and\/or web front end  to present the report . For example, the data \u201chome phone\u201d  may be linked to a billing statement for home phone service . Other data associated with the billing statement for home phone service  may be linked in a similar manner.","In one or more implementations, the user interface  may be used to interact with a document provider via the web front end . In this manner, the user interface  may be used to perform a variety of actions with the document provider. As illustrated in  for example, the user interface  may provide buttons that, when selected, permit a user to interact with the document provider. Sample buttons include, but are not limited to, check on a payment , visit the document provider's website , and access the document provider's customer service online support . A variety of other examples are also contemplated.","Example Procedures","The following discussion describes online data storage techniques that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware, firmware, or software, or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. Further, some implementations may use a subset of the illustrated operations. In portions of the following discussion, reference will be made to the environment  of  and the systems ,  of , respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","104","112","202","112","112","112","112","114","112"]},"The information may serve to identify or tell something about the document . For example, information for a resume may include a date, a prospective employer, a reference, an entity from which the resume was received, and so on. Although in some instances the information may mirror data  in the document, in other instances the information may not correspond to data  in the document. In this way, the information may include information is beyond content in the document .","In one or more implementations, account information is obtained (block ). Account information may be obtained in a variety of ways, e.g., may be provided with financial information used to conclude a financial transaction. For instance, account information may be included with credit card information used to purchase an item. In other instances, account information may be obtained from the information and\/or the document  itself. For example, the web service API  may obtain account information from a \u201cpatient name\u201d in medical test results. In the foregoing example, the web service API  may extract the patient's name from the medical test results in order to identify an account associated the patient. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.","The document is organized based on the information (block ). For example, the web service API  may organize a document associated with a hospital under a medical record tab. In contrast, the web service API  may organize another document associated with the hospital as a billing statement when the information indicates a total billing amount.","In one or more embodiments, a report is generated that includes data included in the document (block ). The report may be for a group of documents and\/or data  included in documents  that are organized for display in a common tab using the web front end . For example, an application built on the platform API  may use the web front end  to generate and\/or display a report.","In one or more embodiments, the document is shared with another account (block ). For example, the web front end  may be used to share the document  (original) or a copy of the document  between accounts on the storage resource . The web front end  may be configured to automatically display the shared document according to how the document  was displayed in the originating account. For instance, when a first account displayed a document  in a school record tab, a second account may also display the document  in the school record tab. In the previous example, the document  may be organized and\/or displayed based on information that identifies the document  as a transcript. A variety of other examples are also contemplated without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","120","130","802","104","104","106","122","104","106"]},"One or more authentication questions are displayed (block ). The authentication questions may be based on the account information. In some implementations, the user interface  displays one or more questions that may be used by the authentication module  to authenticate whether a user is to be granted access to an account with the storage resource  and one or more document providers .","In some embodiments, one or more questions may be displayed to test whether a human is entering a response to the display questions. For example, the user interface  that accesses the web front end  may display a human interaction proof (HIP) challenge that is used to check whether a human is responding to the display questions. HIP challenges may be display at various times, e.g., before authentication questions are displayed or with the authentication questions.","A check is made whether a response is valid based on the account information (decision block ). For example, an entered response may be checked with previously obtained account information to determine whether access to the account is to be blocked or granted. When the check indicates the entered response does not match the obtained account information, access to the account with the storage resource is blocked (block ).","In contrast, when the check indicates a valid response has been entered, access to the account with the storage resource is granted (block ). For example, a user may be permitted access to an account with the storage resource  via the web front end in response to receiving a valid user name and password for the account.","An authentication with the document provider is performed (block ), which may be done at various times. For example, the authentication may occur when access is granted to the account with the storage resource , or in response to receiving a user input for access to data stored with the document provider . A variety of other examples are also contemplated.","Conclusion","Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is described with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The use of the same reference numbers in different instances in the description and the figures may indicate similar or identical items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
