---
title: Multiple persona information cards
abstract: A computer-implemented method can include selecting an information card from a group of identified information cards, selecting a persona from a group of identified personae that are associated with the selected information card, and generating a Request for Security Token (RST) based on the selected information card and the selected persona.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08632003&OS=08632003&RS=08632003
owner: Novell, Inc.
number: 08632003
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090127
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/843,572, titled \u201cPERFORMING A BUSINESS TRANSACTION WITHOUT DISCLOSING SENSITIVE IDENTITY INFORMATION TO A RELYING PARTY,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/843,638, titled \u201cPOLICY-BASED AUDITING OF IDENTITY CREDENTIAL DISCLOSURE BY A SECURE TOKEN SERVICE,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/843,640, titled \u201cFRAMEWORK AND TECHNOLOGY TO ENABLE THE PORTABILITY OF INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/843,608, titled \u201cCHAINING INFORMATION CARD SELECTORS,\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/843,591, titled \u201cCREDENTIAL CATEGORIZATION,\u201d all of which were filed on Aug. 27, 2007, and all of which claim the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 60\/895,312, 60\/895,316, and 60\/895,325, which were filed on Mar. 16, 2007. All of the foregoing applications are fully incorporated by reference herein.","This application is also related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/019,104, titled \u201cPROCESSING HTML EXTENSIONS TO ENABLE SUPPORT OF INFORMATION CARDS BY A RELYING PARTY,\u201d filed on Jan. 24, 2008, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/973,679, filed on Sep. 19, 2007; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/030,063, titled \u201cINFO CARD SELECTOR RECEPTION OF IDENTITY PROVIDER BASED DATA PERTAINING TO INFO CARDS,\u201d filed on Feb. 12, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/029,373, titled \u201cVISUAL AND NON-VISUAL CUES FOR CONVEYING STATE OF INFORMATION CARDS, ELECTRONIC WALLETS, AND KEYRINGS,\u201d filed on Feb. 11, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/054,774, titled \u201cCLAIM CATEGORY HANDLING,\u201d filed on Mar. 25, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/042,205, titled \u201cPRIVATELY SHARING RELYING PARTY REPUTATION WITH INFORMATION CARD SELECTORS,\u201d filed on Mar. 4, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/026,775, titled \u201cMETHODS FOR SETTING AND CHANGING THE USER CREDENTIAL IN INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Feb. 6, 2008. All of the foregoing applications are fully incorporated by reference herein.","This application is also related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/038,674, titled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SECURE ACCOUNT RESET UTILIZING INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Feb. 27, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/044,816, titled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING WORKFLOWS WITH INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Mar. 7, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/108,805, titled \u201cRESTRICTED USE INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Apr. 24, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/112,772, titled \u201cDYNAMIC INFORMATION CARD RENDERING,\u201d filed on Apr. 30, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/054,137, titled \u201cCARDSPACE HISTORY VALIDATOR,\u201d filed on Mar. 24, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/111,874, titled \u201cREMOTABLE INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Apr. 29, 2008. All of the foregoing applications are fully incorporated by reference herein.","This application is also related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/170,384, titled \u201cNON-INTERACTIVE INFORMATION CARD TOKEN GENERATION,\u201d filed on Jul. 9, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/184,155, titled \u201cSITE-SPECIFIC CREDENTIAL GENERATION USING INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Jul. 31, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/201,754, titled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VIRTUAL INFORMATION CARDS,\u201d filed on Aug. 29, 2008; and is related to co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/352,465, titled \u201cINFORMATION CARD OVERLAY,\u201d filed on Jan. 12, 2009. All of the foregoing applications are fully incorporated by reference herein.","The disclosed technology pertains to information cards, and more particularly to the use of multiple personae and\/or roles in connection with information cards.","When a user interacts with certain sites on the Internet such as service providers, which are also referred to as relying parties, the service provider often expects to know something about the user that is requesting the services of the provider. The typical approach for a service provider is to require the user to log into or authenticate to the service provider's computer system. But this approach, while satisfactory for the service provider, is less than ideal for the user.","For example, the user must remember a username and password for each service provider that expects such information. Given that different computer systems impose different requirements, along with the possibility that another user might have already chosen the same username, the user might not be able to use the same username\/password combination for each such computer system. There is also the related problem that, if the user uses the same username\/password combination on multiple computer systems, someone who hacks one such computer system would likely be able to access other such computer systems.","It is estimated that an average user has over 100 accounts on the Internet. For users, this is becoming an increasingly frustrating problem to deal with. Passwords and account names are too hard to remember. Second, the user typically has no control over how the service provider uses the information it stores. If the service provider uses the stored information in a way the user does not want, for example, the user has relatively little ability to prevent such abuse\u2014and essentially no recourse after the fact.","In the past few years, the networking industry has developed the concept of information cards to tackle these problems. Information cards are a very familiar metaphor for users and the idea is gaining rapid momentum. Information cards allow users to manage their identity information and control how it is released. This gives users greater convenience in organizing their multiple personae, their preferences, and their relationships with vendors and identity providers. Interactions with on-line vendors are greatly simplified.","There are currently two kinds of information cards: personal cards (or self-issued cards) and managed cards (or cards that are issued by an identity provider (IdP) or security token service (STS)). A personal card contains self-asserted identity information. In other words, the person issues the card and is the authority for the identity information it contains. In contrast, the managed card is issued by an identity provider, which provides the identity information and asserts its validity.","When a relying party requests identity information from the user, a tool known as an identity selector or card selector can assist the user in selecting an appropriate information card. For example, the card selector can present to the user one or more information cards that satisfy a given security policy and claim requirements of the relying party. When a managed card is selected, the card selector can communicate with the identity provider to obtain a security token that contains the needed information.","While information card technologies are becoming more widespread in applications, there remain certain problems for which no adequate solutions exist. For example, in today's systems, each information card represents a single digital identity (e.g., persona and\/or role(s)). When a card is selected (e.g., via a card selector), it is used to produce the claims needed for the relying party\u2014but only for the single digital identity. Thus, in situations where a user wishes to maintain multiple personae and\/or roles, no matter how similar they may be to each other, he or she is burdened with an undesirable need to obtain and manage (e.g., keep track of) multiple information cards (e.g., one for each digital identity).","There remains a need for a way to address these and other problems associated with the prior art.","Embodiments of the disclosed technology can advantageously provide a user with the ability to use a single information card in connection with multiple personae and\/or roles. For example, the information card can define a Persona element to indicate which persona is to be associated with the information card. The user is thus desirably relieved of any burden to obtain and manage multiple information cards in order to maintain multiple personae and\/or roles.","Embodiments of the disclosed technology can include a card selector that allows for a single information card to be used in connection with multiple personae and\/or roles. For example, a card selector can automatically present a user with the personae and\/or roles available to be selected for a given information card. Thus, the user can first select a particular card and then select a particular persona and\/or one or more roles to be used in connection with the selected information card. Alternatively, the user can first select a persona and\/or one or more roles and then select (e.g., using a card selector) an associated persona.","The foregoing and other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will become more readily apparent from the following detailed description, which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.","Before describing various embodiments of the disclosed technology, it is important to understand the context of the disclosed technology.  shows an example of a sequence of communications between a client, a relying party, and an identity provider. For simplicity, each of the parties (i.e., the client, the relying party, and the identity provider) may be referred to by their respective machines. Actions attributed to each party are taken by that particular party's machine, except where the context indicates that the actions are taken by the actual party itself.","In , a client computer system  includes a computer , a monitor , a keyboard , and a mouse . One having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various other components can be included with the client computer system , such as other input\/output devices (e.g., a printer), for example. In addition,  does not show some of the conventional internal components of the client computer system , such as a central processing unit, memory, storage, etc.","Although  shows the client computer system  as a conventional desktop computer, one having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the client computer system  can be any type of machine or computing device capable of providing the services attributed herein to the client computer system , including, but not limited to, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), or a cellular telephone, for example. One having ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that the client computer system  can interact with other computer systems, such as a relying party  and an identity provider , for example, either directly or over a network of virtually any type.","The relying party  is typically a machine managed by a party that relies in some way on the identity of the user of the client computer system . The operator of the relying party  can generally be any type of relying party. For example, the operator of the relying party  can be a merchant running a business on a website. Alternatively, the operator of the relying party  can be an entity that offers assistance on some matter to registered parties. The relying party  is so named because it relies on establishing some identifying information about the user. For purposes of the present application, the relying party  can refer to an application residing on and\/or running on the client computer system  itself.","The identity provider  is typically managed by a party that is responsible for providing identity information (or other such information) about the user for consumption by the relying party . Depending on the type of information that the identity provider  stores for a user, a single user might store identifying information with any number of different identity providers , any of which might be able to satisfy the request of the relying party . For example, the identity provider  might be a governmental agency responsible for storing information generated by the government, such as a driver's license number or a social security number. Alternatively, the identity provider  might be a third party that is in the business of managing identity information on behalf of a wide variety of users.","Conventional methodology of releasing identity information can be found in a number of sources, such as a document published by Microsoft entitled \u201cIntroducing Windows CardSpace,\u201d which can be found on the World Wide Web at http:\/\/msdn2.microsoft.com\/en-us\/library\/aa480189.aspx and is hereby incorporated by reference. To summarize the operation of Windows CardSpace, when a user wants to access some data from the relying party , the client computer system  requests the security policy of the relying party , as shown in a communication , which is returned in a communication  as a security policy . The security policy  is typically a summary of the information the relying party  needs, how the information should be formatted, and so on.","Once the client computer system  has the security policy , the client computer system  can identify which information cards will satisfy the security policy . Different security policies might result in different information cards being usable. For example, if the relying party  simply needs a username and password combination, the information cards that will satisfy this security policy will typically be different from the information cards that satisfy a security policy requesting the user's full name, mailing address, and social security number. The user can then select an information card that satisfies the security policy .","An identity selector (also referred to as a card selector) on the client computer system  can be used by the user to select the appropriate information card. The card selector may present the user with a list or graphical display of all available information cards. Information cards that satisfy the security policy may be highlighted in some way to distinguish them from the remaining cards. Alternatively, the card selector may display only the information cards that will satisfy the security policy. The card selector may provide a means for the user to select the desired information card by, for instance, a mouse click or a touch on a touch screen.","Once the user has selected an acceptable information card, the client computer system  can use the selected information card to transmit a Request for Security Token (RST) from the identity provider , as shown in a communication . This request can identify the data to be included in the security token, the credential that identifies the user, and other data the identity provider needs to generate the security token. The identity provider  can return a security token , as shown in a communication .","The security token  can include a number of claims (e.g., pieces of information) that typically include data that the user wants to release to the relying party. The security token  is usually encrypted in some manner, and perhaps signed and\/or time-stamped by the identity provider  so that the relying party  can be certain that the security token originated with the identity provider , as opposed to being spoofed by someone intent on defrauding the relying party . The client computer system  can then forward the security token  to the relying party , as shown in a communication .","Alternatively, the selected information card can be a self-issued information card (also called a personal card). A self-issued information card typically refers to an information card that is issued not by an identity provider but by the client computer system  itself. In that case, the identity provider  effectively becomes part of the client computer system .","In this model, a person skilled in the art will recognize that because all information flows through the client computer system , the user has a measure of control over the release of the user's identity information. The relying party  only receives the information the user wants the relying party  to have, and generally does not store that information on behalf of the user.","Exemplary Client Computer System for Using Information Cards",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","105","205","210","215","220","205","200","210","200","205","210","200","130","135"]},"The card selector  is typically responsible for enabling a user to select an information card that satisfies a particular security policy. The card selector  can present the user with a single information card to select or virtually any number of information cards (e.g., information card ) from which the user can select a particular one. The card selector  is also typically responsible for enabling a user to obtain managed cards from identity providers and to install the managed cards on the client computer system .","The browser  can allow the user to interact with web pages on a network, such as web pages created by an identity provider. The user may use the browser  to obtain a managed card by, for example, visiting a web page created by the identity provider and filling out a web-based form.","The client computer system  also includes a local policy store , which can store local security policies such as local security policy . In the example, the local security policy  is a local security policy defining how information cards can be defined and used.","Exemplary Information Cards","An information card typically contains metadata representing the relationship between an identity provider and the digital identity associated with the information card. For example, a typical information card can specify a card name element, a language identifier, an information card reference identifier, an element for identifying the issuer of the card, an element for indicating the card's date of issuance and expiration date, an element for indicating the identity provider's supported token services as a list, an element for indicating the identity provider's supported token types as a list, an element identifying a relying party for which a security token is being requested, and an element specifying supported claim types.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","225","300","305","305","310","310","315","310"]},"If the information card  is a managed information card (e.g., managed by an identity provider such as identity provider  of , for example), then the information represented by the information card  is not actually stored on the client computer system; rather, the information is stored by the identity provider. Thus, the information displayed on the information card  would not be the actual information stored by the client computer system but an indicator of what information is included in the information card .","Exemplary Personae and Roles in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology","There are many situations in which a user may wish to maintain multiple personae and\/or roles. For example, consider an example in which a user named Jim wishes to maintain two different personae: a first persona (e.g., \u201cJimAtWork\u201d) for use with work-related roles and a second persona (e.g., \u201cJimAtHome\u201d) for use with personal (e.g., non-work-related) roles. In prior art systems, Jim is undesirably burdened with a requirement to obtain and maintain at least one separate information card for each persona or role.","In contrast, implementations of the disclosed technology as described herein can advantageously provide users such as Jim with the ability to maintain multiple personae and\/or roles without needing more than a single information card. As used herein, the terms \u2018persona\u2019 and \u2018role\u2019 can either be synonymous with each other or distinct from each other, depending on the embodiment. The potential differences between the terms are discussed in detail below. For certain implementations, however, \u2018personae\u2019 and \u2018roles\u2019 vary only semantically (e.g., they achieve substantially similar or even identical functionality).","As used herein, a persona generally refers to an identity that a user can assume as his or her individual identification (e.g., \u201cJimAtHome\u201d and \u201cJimAtWork\u201d). A persona typically implies individual expectations (e.g., traits attributable directly to the user), and separate personae tend to indicate separate domains. Certain implementations of the disclosed technology involve an information card that contains multiple personae (e.g., values that each identify a particular persona).","In contrast, a role generally refers to a title (e.g., \u201cadministrator\u201d or \u201cmanager\u201d) that carries with it certain societal or group expectations. Also, a role typically has a common definition. For example, an \u201cadministrator\u201d typically has well-defined responsibilities that are independent of whichever user assumes the role. Roles are often, but not necessarily, distinct from personae. For example, whereas only user Jim can truly assume \u201cJimAtHome\u201d and \u201cJimAtWork,\u201d virtually any number of authorized users can potentially authenticate as an \u201cadministrator.\u201d Certain implementations of the disclosed technology can involve an information card that contains multiple roles (e.g., values that each identify a particular role).","In certain implementations of the disclosed technology, personae and roles can be handled separately. For example, an information card can contain roles in which the user may act. The user could thus select any number of roles (as opposed to a single persona) that are available to him or her during the card selection process (e.g., using a card selector). Each role selected by the user can invoke different claims and thus potentially trigger different claim values to be returned. Such embodiments can advantageously enable a user to ultimately provide a single set of authentication materials for a single information card.","In alternative implementations, personae and roles can be treated together. For example, if an information card contains multiple personae, a user can first select a certain persona and then select one or more roles that can be used with the selected persona. Consider an example in which a card selector presents the user Jim with two personae: \u201cJimAtHome\u201d and \u201cJimAtWork.\u201d In the example, Jim selects \u201cJimAtWork.\u201d The card selector can then present Jim with some or all of the roles that are associated with \u201cJimAtWork,\u201d such as \u201cmanager,\u201d \u201cdatabase administrator,\u201d or \u201csoftware developer,\u201d for example.","Exemplary Multiple Persona Information Cards in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","405","405","410","415","415","415","420"]},"An exemplary schema for a token service element (such as the TokenService element  of , for example) is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<ic:TokenServiceList>"},{"entry":"\u2009(<ic:TokenService>"},{"entry":"\u2002\u2009<wsa:EndpointReference> ... <\/wsa:EndpointReference>"},{"entry":"\u2002\u2009<ic:UserCredential>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:DisplayCredentialHint> xs:string <\/ic:DisplayCredentialHint> ?"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:Persona Default=\u201dxs:boolean\u201d> xs:string <\/ic:Persona> *"},{"entry":"\u2002\u2009("},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:UsernamePasswordCredential>..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<\/ic:UsernamePasswordCredential> |"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:KerberosV5Credential>...<\/ic:KerberosV5Credential> |"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:X509V3Credential>...<\/ic:X509V3Credential> |"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<ic:SelfIssuedCredential>...<\/ic:SelfIssuedCredential> | ..."},{"entry":"\u2002\u2009)"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/ic:UserCredential>"},{"entry":"\u2009<\/ic:TokenService>) +"},{"entry":"<\/ic:TokenServiceList>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In situations involving self-issued information cards, token services are typically not specified because self-issued cards generally contain the claim values themselves rather than being associated with a token service that supplies the claims. An example of a schema for a typical self-issued card is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ic:InformationCardPrivateData> ?"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<ic:MasterKey> xs:base64Binary <\/ic:MasterKey>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<ic:ClaimValueList> ?"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<ic:ClaimValue Uri=\u201dxs:anyURI\u201d ...> +"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002<ic:Value> xs:string <\/ic:Value>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/ic:ClaimValue>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<\/ic:ClaimValueList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/ic:InformationCardPrivateData>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ic:InformationCardPrivateData> ?"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<ic:MasterKey> xs:base64Binary <\/ic:MasterKey>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<ic:ClaimValueList> *"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<ic:Persona Default=\u201dxs:boolean\u201d> xs:string <\/ic:Persona>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<ic:ClaimValue Uri=\u201dxs:anyURI\u201d ...> +"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002<ic:Value> xs:string <\/ic:Value>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/ic:ClaimValue>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002<\/ic:ClaimValueList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/ic:InformationCardPrivateData>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},"When a user selects an information card, the card selector generally seeks to obtain a security token from an identity provider or security token service (STS) for the selected information card. The card selector typically obtains the security token in response to a Request for Security Token or RST (such as the request  of , for example) to the STS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","505","510","510","515"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","605","610","610","615","610","620","620"]},"In certain embodiments, each persona and\/or role can be associated with a particular claim type (or claim value if the information card is a self-issued information card). Such arrangements advantageously enable the card selector to provide an improved indication of which claims are available on a per-persona\/role basis.","Implementations of the disclosed technology advantageously require no changes to be made to existing formats for a Request for Security Token Response (RSTR).","Exemplary Card Selectors in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology","Implementations of the disclosed technology can include a card selector designed to advantageously allow a user to choose from a set of personae and\/or roles (e.g., once the user has identified a particular information card to be used). In certain embodiments, virtually any information card selected by the user can have its own set of personae and\/or roles. As such, the card selector can allow the user to first select an information card and then select a persona and\/or one or more roles for the selected information card.","In embodiments involving managed cards (e.g., information cards managed by a security token service (STS)), the card selector can form a Request for Security Token (RST) using a Persona element, as described above. In embodiments involving self-issued cards, the card selector can use a Persona element within a ClaimValueList element, as described above, in order to identify the correct claim values to be used in construction of the security token.","In certain implementations of the disclosed technology, the card selector can query for any personae\/roles that are available to the user before an information card is selected. For example, the card selector can perform the query in the background as the card selector starts up. The card selector can then present the user with a list of available information cards and pertinent personae\/roles (e.g., personae\/roles that satisfy a relying party's security policy). Alternatively, the card selector can prompt the user for a persona and\/or role(s) and then present the user with some or all of the information cards associated with the selected persona and\/or role(s).","In certain implementations, the card selector can present some or all applicable personae\/roles to the user after the user has selected a particular information card. For example, once the user has selected a particular information card, the card selector can present some or all of the personae\/roles associated with the information card selected. Alternatively, the card selector can determine which personae\/roles to present based on which personae\/roles were available during the user's previous transactions. The card selector can also present personae\/roles based on whether they satisfy the relying party's security policy. In certain embodiments, the card selector can prompt the user to enter (e.g., type in) the desired persona and\/or role(s).","In certain embodiments, the card selector can \u201cblacklist\u201d certain personae\/roles (e.g., present all personae\/roles other than certain personae\/roles that are designated as not being available to the particular user). Alternatively, the card selector can \u201cwhitelist\u201d certain personae\/roles (e.g., only present certain personae\/roles based on certain criteria such as an approval by a higher authority).","In alternative embodiments, the card selector can contact the STS to see which personae\/roles are available to the user (e.g., which personae\/roles the user is allowed to assume). The card selector can query the STS on a per-card basis (e.g., based on which personae\/roles have valid claims associated therewith). Such information can also be delayed (e.g., until after the user presents the information card to the STS). For example, once the user authenticates to the STS, the STS can provide a list of the personae\/roles available to the user.","Exemplary Identity Providers in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology","In certain embodiments, the identity provider or security token service (STS) is said to be persona-aware. That is, once the STS receives a Request for Security Token (RST) containing a Persona element, the STS can fulfill the request (e.g., in any of a number of different ways). For example, certain embodiments can include using the underlying data store of the STS to build an association between different personae and attributes or attribute values for the authenticating identity. The STS could then use the association matching the Persona value in the RST to build the appropriate claims.","Alternative embodiments can include the use of a particular identity for authentication purposes and the use of different but related identities (e.g., identified by persona\/role) that each have different attribute values from which claims for the corresponding persona can be constructed.","Certain implementations can involve an association that maps a given persona to particular attributes of the corresponding identity (e.g., to enable an STS to build the correct claims for the given persona). In certain embodiments, the STS can allow a user to create an identity and then associate different attribute values with the identity based on persona. For example, a user can designate multiple personae for his or her personal identity (e.g., using an \u201cat work\u201d persona and an \u201cat home\u201d persona, as discussed above). The STS can then associate appropriate attribute values for each persona. For example, the STS could note that the user's \u201cat home\u201d telephone number is 800-555-1212.","Exemplary Methods in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},"At , an information card is selected (e.g., by a user). For example, a card selector can present a user with some or all of the information cards that are available to him or her. The user can then select a desired one of the information cards presented. Alternatively, the card selector can automatically select an information card for the user (e.g., based on past selections).","At , a persona or role is selected. In certain embodiments, the user can select a particular persona or role based on the selected information card. For example, based on the selected information card, the card selector can present the user with a list of some or all of the personae and\/or roles available for use with the selected information card. The user can then select a desired persona and\/or one or more role. Alternatively, the card selector can automatically select a persona and\/or role(s) for the information card (e.g., based on past selections).","In certain embodiments, either a persona or one or more roles can be selected, as discussed above. In other embodiments, a persona can be selected first and then one or more roles (e.g., associated with the persona) can be selected. In alternative embodiments, one or more roles can be selected first and then an associated persona can be selected.","At , a Request for Secruity Token (RST) can be constructed based on the claim values associated with the selected persona and\/or role(s).","At , the RST can be sent to the Security Token Service (STS). Upon receiving the RST, and based on the selected persona\/role(s) (e.g., as indicated by corresponding specifiers), the STS can generate a security token (e.g., by building appropriate claims for the persona\/role(s)) and return it to the card selector (e.g., using a Request for Security Token Response (RSTR)).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"800"},"At , one or more information cards are identified (e.g., by a card selector). The card selector can present a listing of the information card(s) to a user. For example, the card selector can present all of the user's information cards or only information cards that satisfy the relying party's security policy.","At , the user selects an information card from the listing. In certain embodiments, the card selector can suggest a particular information card to the user (e.g., based on previous information card selections for use with the same relying party).","At , one or more personae are identified (e.g., by the card selector). The card selector can present a listing of the identified persona or personae to the user. The listing can be based on the selected information card. For example, the card selector can present only personae that are associated with the selected information card. Alternatively, the card selector can present all of the user's personae to the user, regardless of whether they are associated with the selected information card.","At , a persona is selected. For example, the user can select the persona (e.g., from the listing presented at ). Alternatively, the card selector can automatically select a persona or suggest a particular persona to the user (e.g., based on previous persona selections for use with the same relying party).","At , which is an optional step in the example, one or more roles can be identified (e.g., by the card selector). The card selector can present a listing of the role(s) to the user. The listing can be based on the selected persona. For example, the card selector can present only roles that are associated with the selected persona. The card selector can also limit the listing of roles to those roles (or combinations of roles) that satisfy the relying party's security policy. Alternatively, the card selector can present all of the user's roles to the user, regardless of whether they are associated with the selected persona.","At , which is also an optional step in the example, one or more roles are selected. For example, the user can select the role(s) (e.g., from the listing presented at ). Alternatively, the card selector can automatically select one or more roles or suggest one or more roles to the user (e.g., based on previous role selections for use with the same relying party). In certain embodiments, no roles are selected (e.g., if the user does not want to specify any particular roles). In these embodiments, a default role can be used (if such a default role exists).","At , an RST is constructed (e.g., based on the selected persona and\/or role(s)) and sent to the STS. Upon receipt of the RST, and based on the selected persona\/role(s), the STS can generate a security token (e.g., based on claim values corresponding to the selected persona and\/or role(s)) and return it to the card selector (e.g., using an RSTR).","One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the methods illustrated in  are not meant to be limiting in any way and that there are many different variations of the illustrated methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed technology.","For example, as discussed above, the card selector can present certain personae and\/or role(s) to the user before presenting any information cards (e.g., so that the user can first select a persona and\/or role(s) and then be presented with a listing of applicable information cards by the card selector). In other embodiments, the user can simply specify a persona and\/or role(s) to the card selector and the card selector can automatically suggest or even select an information card based on the user's selection of persona\/role(s).","Exemplary User Scenario in Accordance with Implementations of the Disclosed Technology","An example of a user scenario in accordance with the disclosed technology involves a hospital employee having multiple personae\/roles. For example, the user can act as either the hospital administrator or as a surgeon. During the course of his or her duties, the hospital employee needs to use a card selector (e.g., in order to present a security token to each of various relying parties).","Unlike today's information card systems in which the employee would undesirably need two separate information cards (i.e., a first card representing him as the hospital administrator and a second card representing him as surgeon), implementations of the disclosed technology can advantageously allow the employee to authenticate as either the administrator or as a surgeon using a single information card.","For example, the employee can have a single information card that contains a Persona element with two different values: one corresponding to the employee as the administrator and another corresponding to the employee as a surgeon. Depending on which persona the user (or card selector) selects, the resulting claim values used in generating the security token would correspond to the selected persona. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that, in the example, some of the claim values may be the same, regardless of which persona is selected.","In the example, each of the two personae can have different roles associated therewith. For example, whereas the persona corresponding to the hospital administrator can have management-oriented roles associated with it (e.g., roles that are not associated with the surgeon persona), the persona corresponding to a surgeon can have medical oriented roles associated with it (e.g., roles that are not associated with the hospital administrator persona). Thus, once a persona is selected (e.g., by the user or by the card selector), one or more roles associated with the selected persona can be selected and the resulting claims used in generating the security token would correspond to the combination of the selected persona\/role(s).","General Description of a Suitable Machine in Which Embodiments of the Disclosed Technology Can Be Implemented","The following discussion is intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable machine in which embodiments of the disclosed technology can be implemented. As used herein, the term \u201cmachine\u201d is intended to broadly encompass a single machine or a system of communicatively coupled machines or devices operating together. Exemplary machines can include computing devices such as personal computers, workstations, servers, portable computers, handheld devices, tablet devices, and the like.","Typically, a machine includes a system bus to which processors, memory (e.g., random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), and other state-preserving medium), storage devices, a video interface, and input\/output interface ports can be attached. The machine can also include embedded controllers such as programmable or non-programmable logic devices or arrays, Application Specific Integrated Circuits, embedded computers, smart cards, and the like. The machine can be controlled, at least in part, by input from conventional input devices (e.g., keyboards and mice), as well as by directives received from another machine, interaction with a virtual reality (VR) environment, biometric feedback, or other input signal.","The machine can utilize one or more connections to one or more remote machines, such as through a network interface, modem, or other communicative coupling. Machines can be interconnected by way of a physical and\/or logical network, such as an intranet, the Internet, local area networks, wide area networks, etc. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that network communication can utilize various wired and\/or wireless short range or long range carriers and protocols, including radio frequency (RF), satellite, microwave, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 545.11, Bluetooth, optical, infrared, cable, laser, etc.","Embodiments of the disclosed technology can be described by reference to or in conjunction with associated data including functions, procedures, data structures, application programs, instructions, etc. that, when accessed by a machine, can result in the machine performing tasks or defining abstract data types or low-level hardware contexts. Associated data can be stored in, for example, volatile and\/or non-volatile memory (e.g., RAM and ROM) or in other storage devices and their associated storage media, which can include hard-drives, floppy-disks, optical storage, tapes, flash memory, memory sticks, digital video disks, biological storage, and other tangible, physical storage media.","Associated data can be delivered over transmission environments, including the physical and\/or logical network, in the form of packets, serial data, parallel data, propagated signals, etc., and can be used in a compressed or encrypted format. Associated data can be used in a distributed environment, and stored locally and\/or remotely for machine access.","Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments, it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments may be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles, and may be combined in any desired manner. And although the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments, other configurations are contemplated. In particular, even though expressions such as \u201caccording to an embodiment of the invention\u201d or the like are used herein, these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities, and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein, these terms may reference the same or different embodiments that are combinable into other embodiments.","Consequently, in view of the wide variety of permutations to the embodiments described herein, this detailed description and accompanying material is intended to be illustrative only, and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.","What is claimed as the invention, therefore, is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
