---
title: Ceramic turbine shroud support
abstract: A turbine shroud includes a ceramic shroud ring configured to surround a plurality of turbine rotor blades, a plurality of slots circumferentially distributed around the ceramic shroud ring, a forward metallic support ring, a plurality of tabs attached to a forward edge of the forward metallic support ring configured to engage a turbine support case, and a plurality of tabs attached to an aft edge of the forward metallic support ring received by the slots of the ceramic shroud ring. Only two axially extending radial surfaces of each of the tabs attached to the aft edge of the forward metallic support ring are configured to contact the slots of the ceramic shroud ring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08167546&OS=08167546&RS=08167546
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08167546
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090901
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under DE-FC02-00CH11060 awarded by the United States Army. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to turbine engines. In particular, the present invention relates to devices for attaching ceramic turbine shrouds to surrounding metallic turbine components.","A gas turbine engine commonly includes a fan, a compressor, a combustor, a turbine, and an exhaust nozzle. During engine operation, working medium gases, for example air, are drawn into and compressed in the compressor. The compressed air is channeled to the combustor where fuel is added to the air and the air\/fuel mixture is ignited. The products of combustion are discharged to the turbine section, which extracts work from these products to produce useful thrust to power, for example, an aircraft in flight. A portion of the work extracted from the products of combustion by the turbine is used to power the compressor.","The compressor and turbine commonly include alternating stages of rotor blades and stator vanes. Compressor and turbine rotors include stationary annular fluid seals surrounding the blades and acting to contain and direct the flow of working medium fluid through successive stages. The annular compressor and turbine rotor seals, sometimes referred to as turbine shrouds and outer air seals, may be attached to the engine by, for example, a support case.","The operating temperatures of some engine stages, such as in the high pressure turbine stages, may exceed the material limits of the metallic turbine shroud and therefore necessitate cooling the shroud by using, for example, compressor bleed air directed to the segment through the support rings. Ceramic materials have been studied for application to components in the hot section of gas turbine engines to replace metallic materials that require such cooling in order to withstand the high temperature of combustion gas. For example, ceramics have been employed in the fabrication of hybrid turbine rotors and integrally bladed rotors (IBRs), which are sometimes referred to as bladed disks or simply blisks. In both cases, particularly that of a ceramic IBR, a large gap between rotor blade tip and metal shrouds commonly results from the low thermal expansion of ceramics that make up the blades and the IBRs. The low density and high stiffness of ceramics reduce the radial displacement of the blade tip and therefore exacerbates the issue further. The large gap or clearance at the blade tip results in a high percentage of hot working medium gas flow leaking through the tip-shroud gap that reduces the transfer of energy from the gas flow to turbine blades, which in turn causes an engine performance penalty as useful energy is not harnessed. The performance penalty is more severe for small gas turbine engines because the engine size makes a small tip clearance large relative to the gas flow path.","To minimize losses induced by large tip clearance, ceramic shrouds have been employed to control the gap between rotor blade tip and the inner surface of the shroud. Due to its high stiffness, low thermal expansion and high thermal conductivity, a ceramic shroud experiences less thermal distortion than a metal shroud for a given set of thermal loading conditions. The high temperature capability of the ceramics also leads to reduced cooling air requirement, which provides an additional benefit to engine performance by reducing the amount of energy that must be diverted from propulsion to cooling.","The main difficulty in ceramic shroud design is the attachment to the metallic engine structure because of low ductility and low thermal expansion of ceramics relative to metals. Elastic springs have been used to support ceramic shrouds, but their performance at elevated temperatures over long durations is questionable due to metal creep. Another common technique of supporting a ceramic shroud is through a tab and slot approach in which tabs on the ceramic shroud engage slots on a metallic casing. Generally there are a number of tab and slot pairs evenly distributed circumferentially to spread the support load and to position the shroud radially. This method is directed at minimizing thermal constraints by allowing the ceramic shroud and metal support to grow independent of each other. However, in practice, due to manufacturing tolerance control, uneven thermal fields, and thermal deformation of the shroud and the casing, thermal stress at the tabs may be sufficiently high to cause local damage. Finally, shrink-fitting a metallic support to the ceramic shroud provides the advantage of introducing compressive stress into the ceramic shroud and improves shroud reliability. However, it is difficult to control the clamp load from the shrink-fit metallic support on the shroud over a wide range of thermal transient conditions.","Embodiments of the present invention include a turbine shroud includes a ceramic shroud ring configured to surround a plurality of turbine rotor blades, a plurality of slots circumferentially distributed around the ceramic shroud ring, a forward metallic support ring, a plurality of tabs attached to a forward edge of the forward metallic support ring configured to engage a turbine support case, and a plurality of tabs attached to an aft edge of the forward metallic support ring received by the slots of the ceramic shroud ring. Only two axially extending radial surfaces of each of the tabs attached to the aft edge of the forward metallic support ring are configured to contact the slots of the ceramic shroud ring.","Embodiments of the present invention also include a turbine shroud including a ceramic shroud ring configured to surround a plurality of turbine rotor blades and including a plurality of circumferentially distributed slots, a forward metallic support ring including a plurality of forward tabs configured to engage an turbine support case and a plurality of aft tabs received by the slots of the ceramic shroud ring, an aft metallic support ring configured to engage a stator assembly aft of the turbine shroud, and a resilient member interposed between the ceramic shroud ring and the aft metallic support ring such that the resilient member biases the ceramic shroud ring axially.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","16","18","10","14","14","16","16","16","18","20","22","16","18","14","18","10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","20","22","24","26","28","22","22","20","20","20","12","20","22","28","20","20","24","24","30","32","34","36","38","30","32","26","32","26","38","28","28","30","38","34","36","34","36","38","36","38","36","30","30"],"i":["a","a ","b ","a ","a "]},"During engine operation, ceramic shroud ring  of shroud assembly  acts to contain and direct the flow of working medium gas through turbine rotor stage . Gas flow leaking through the gap between the tips of blades and ceramic shroud  reduces the transfer of energy from the gas flow to turbine blades , which in turn causes a performance penalty on engine  as useful energy from the gas flow is lost. Unlike a metallic turbine shroud, ceramic shroud ring  acts to maintain a relatively small gap between blades of ceramic IRB rotor , because both components experience comparably low thermal expansion at the operating temperatures of engine . However, the support structure of engine , such as support case , and other adjacent components, such as stators  and , to which ceramic shroud  is attached are metallic and therefore experience significantly higher thermal expansion during operation of engine  than does ceramic shroud . Mismatches in thermal expansion between metallic components and ceramic shroud , as well as the low ductility of ceramic shroud  may act to concentrate stresses on shroud . Embodiments of the present invention therefore provide turbine shroud assemblies adapted to provide adequate surface area contact between the ceramic shroud and metallic supports to structurally support the shroud, while simultaneously maintaining a well defined surface area contact to prevent localized stress concentration due to imbalanced thermal expansion between the ceramic shroud and metallic supports. A contact area is defined by crowns and (e.g., arcuate surfaces) on opposite sides of each of the fingers  (see ). Embodiments of the present invention also employ resilient members adapted to compensate for imbalanced radial and axial thermal expansion between the ceramic shroud and metallic support components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3C","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["24","30","32","34","36","38","24","24","32","30","24","32","40","42","30","44","30","44","30","42","32","40","32","26","38","46","28","28","30","38","34","36","34","36","38","36"],"i":"a "},"The eight aft tabs  of forward support ring  are configured to act as stiff springs, thereby supporting ceramic shroud  circumferentially and radially. To adequately support ceramic shroud  and simultaneously reduce stress concentrations caused by imbalanced thermal growth between shroud  and support ring , tabs  on forward support ring  are configured to contact slots  on ceramic shroud  only on two surfaces of slots  as shown in . Engaging slots  on surfaces with tabs  provides sufficient surface area to maintain contact between shroud  and support ring  in the event support ring  expands axially and\/or radially at a greater rate than shroud . Additionally, localized stress concentrations caused by mismatches in thermal expansion between shroud  and support ring  are reduced by engaging slots  only on surfaces , i.e. by the well defined surface areas of crowns and for contact between ceramic shroud  and metallic support ring . To further reduce stress concentration, soft metal, such as Pt, foils can be inserted between the sides of aft tabs  and surfaces of slots  on ceramic shroud . In addition to providing support, aft tabs  on forward support ring  are configured to bend to compensate for any machining and\/or assembly out-of-tolerances, without overstressing ceramic shroud . As discussed above, aft support ring  and wave spring  axially bias ceramic shroud  by generating a preload on the aft side of ceramic shroud . In different embodiments of the present invention, the number of aft tabs  on forward support ring  may vary between three and eight. Higher numbers of tabs may necessitate tighter dimensional tolerance control (but could lead to more uniform loading between the tabs and the ceramic shroud.)","In the axial direction, thermal growth mismatch between ceramic shroud  and metallic support rings ,  is compensated for by wave spring . Wave spring  is interposed between spring backing ring  and aft support ring , both of which function to spread the load from wave spring  over a larger area. Spring backing ring  has several, for example four, crowns to position ring  at the inner diameter of turbine support case , while still allowing cooling air to pass through and cool wave spring . The hot gas path surface of spring backing ring , i.e. the radially inner circumferential surface, may be coated with a thermal barrier coating (TBC) to reduce the temperature of ring  and reduce heat conduction to wave spring . Wave spring  is preloaded to a desired load level and the load may increase or decrease depending largely on the relative thermal growth of support case  and stator . The spring rate and size of wave spring  may be chosen such that a positive low clamping load is substantially maintained throughout all operating conditions of engine .","In some embodiments of the present invention, soft rings, such as gaskets, may be arranged at the ceramic-metal interfaces of shroud assembly . In the exploded view of , for example, gaskets  are arranged between forward support ring  and the front radial face of ceramic shroud , and between the aft radial face of ceramic shroud  and spring backing ring .","Embodiments of the present invention have several advantages over past ceramic shroud supports. Turbine shrouds according to the present invention, and engines employing such shrouds, are adapted to provide adequate surface area contact between the ceramic shroud and metallic supports to structurally support the shroud, while simultaneously maintaining a well defined surface area contact enough to prevent localized stress concentration due to imbalanced thermal expansion between shroud and supports. Embodiments of the present invention also employ resilient members adapted to compensate for imbalanced radial and axial thermal expansion between the ceramic shroud and metallic support components. Ceramic shrouds and shroud assemblies according to the present invention thereby provide a metallic-ceramic interface capable of supporting a ceramic shroud and acting to reduce stress concentrations on the shroud due to mismatched thermal expansion between ceramic and metallic components.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIGS. 1-3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIGS. 1-3B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
