---
title: Deployable heirarchical structure
abstract: A collapsible and deployable hierarchical open lattice assembly comprised of hinge boxes of 12 battens connected by hinge nodes. The hinge nodes are made of a plurality of resilient flexure joints, each joint connected to a batten and giving said batten a 90-degree in-plane rotation capability with a neutral-shaped flexure in a deployed state and a deformed-shaped flexure in a compressed state, whereby a restorative moment is created tending to return said flexure to its neutral state. One or more trusses are formed by sets of four longerons connected to the hinge boxes by the resilient flexure joints. Multiple hub boxes connected by longerons may be used to create a hierarchical truss of trusses in either two or three dimensions. These assemblies may be collapsed to a linear dimension by shearing the hub boxes and trusses in a parallelogram manner. The folding kinematics occur in three stages, which may be performed either sequentially or simultaneously. Initially the trusses connecting the hub boxes are sheared. Then the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in one common dimension to reduce the assembly to a two-dimensional, planar configuration. Finally the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in a perpendicular common dimension to reduce the assembly to a one-dimensional, linear configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941978&OS=07941978&RS=07941978
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07941978
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11\/463,831 filed on Aug. 10, 2006.","The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1(a) of Executive Order 10096, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force, to the entire right, title and interest therein, including foreign rights. This is a continuation-in-part of application Ser. No. 11\/463,831 filed Aug. 10, 2006.","The present invention is related to a collapsible and deployable structure, and would be particularly useful for platforms that require hierarchy to achieve rigidity and strength requirements. More particularly, the present invention is a structure that can be collapsed from its deployed configuration into a linear configuration for storage or transportation.","It is often necessary to transport a structure that occupies considerable volume. Where a launch vehicle is being used to transport the structure, the problem of storage becomes acute because vehicles adapted for lifting a load from the earth's surface require a streamlined shape due to aerodynamic considerations. For example, unmanned launch vehicles ordinarily carry their payload in a fairing or tapered nose cone. Ordinarily, spacecraft structures such as antennas, sensing instruments and probes, and solar panels are collapsed to dimensions that will fit within the limited storage envelope of the launch vehicle, and are then unfurled or extended in space. It is thus a farther requirement that the collapsed structure be deployed without undue difficulty.","Structural hierarchy is the characteristic of a structure having similar geometry at decreasing length scales. For example, a truss where each strut is also a truss is known as a hierarchical structure. Structural hierarchy is desired because it reduces the material volume needed to achieve strength and stiffness requirements. In deployable structures, hierarchy also leads to more compact packaging because less material needs to be packaged.","The prior art has reduced the volume of collapsed structures by incorporating structural hierarchy in one dimension; however, the benefits of using structural hierarchy to collapse a deployable structure in two or all three dimensions has not been realized. There is a need in the art for a deployable structure that incorporates structural hierarchy to collapse in multiple dimensions, and thus realizes both the greater rigidity and stability per unit of cross-section area while in the deployed configuration, as well as the reduced volume in the collapsed configuration. The present invention fulfills this need in the art.","The present invention is an open lattice assembly comprised of hub boxes formed from rigid rods connected by hinged nodes, with the hub boxes being connected to each other by longerons. Multiple hub boxes are connected by longerons to create a hierarchical truss of trusses in either two or three dimensions. Truss bays are formed by battens transversely connecting the longerons. The hub boxes and trusses may include stiffening diagonal members across their respective faces.","The deployed assembly is collapsed by shearing the hub boxes and trusses in a parallelogram manner. The folding kinematics occur in three stages, which may be performed either sequentially or simultaneously: (1) the trusses connecting the hub boxes are sheared; (2) the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in one common dimension to reduce the assembly to a two-dimensional, planar configuration; and (3) the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in a perpendicular common dimension to reduce the assembly to a one-dimensional, linear configuration.","Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, and illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C"],"b":["100","101","102","103","104","105","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["102","102","19","45","39","67","11","15","17","19","39","1","2","15","41","21","47","17","19","45","71","72","102","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["5","5","5","5","5"]},"In this  example, the \u03b1-angles in the yz-plane between the rods connected to the back xz-plane go from 90\u00b0 to zero in the first rotation.  shows this rotation at successive stages ending in the two-dimensional (2-D) structure of  lying in the back xy-plane. In the next rotation the \u03b2-angles in the xz plane go from 90\u00b0 to zero starting in  and ending in a one-dimensional (1D) line (disregarding the actual dimensions of the rods and hinges) in . Deployment would reverse the sequence with compression strain built up by the collapse sequence being sufficient to deploy the assembly without external force.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6A","FIGS. 6B-6G"],"b":["6","6","6","6"]},"Referring to , B through C shows the truss rotating through 90 degrees (angle \u03b1 in the xz plane rotates through 90\u00b0) while the hub box retains its configuration. Next the 2-dimensional truss is rotated to a linear configuration (angle \u03b2 in the yz plane rotates through 90\u00b0) while the hub box simultaneously collapses to a 2-D form in . Finally, the 2-D hub box is rotated to a linear configuration parallel and adjacent to the linear truss (hub box angle \u03b3 in the xz plane rotates through 90\u00b0) in . The angles \u03b1, \u03b2, and \u03b3 are not shown in the diagram.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIGS. 8B through 8G","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8C"]},"The next 90\u00b0 rotations in the yz plane, shown in , involves the collapse of the hub boxes and the trusses to obtain a planar ) lying in the xz plane. Then alternate \u00b190 degree rotations in the xz plane results in a linear configuration similar to . The final 90 degree rotation in the xz plane results in a linear dimension (G).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},"Thus, a deployable hierarchical structure comprised of hub boxes connected by trusses with resilient flexure joints as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 7,435,032 at the hub nodes can be constructed. The deployed assembly is collapsed by shearing the hub boxes and trusses in a parallelogram manner. The folding kinematics may occur in three stages, which may be performed either sequentially or simultaneously. First the trusses connecting the hub boxes are sheared by 90 degrees. Next the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in one common dimension to reduce the assembly to a two-dimensional, planar configuration. Finally the hub boxes and trusses are sheared in a perpendicular common dimension to reduce the assembly to a one-dimensional, linear configuration."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1","1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-E","b":["5","5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 6A-6G"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
