---
title: Rocking chair
abstract: Provided is a chair suited to the use of a keyboard or mouse, the chair has a seat  and a rocking backrest . The seat  comprises a first section and a second section . The first section of the seat  is affixed to a seat-mounting shell  is attached to a base , via a seat-mounting fixture, so as to be slide forwards and backwards. The backrest  has a back cover , a back panel  and a cushion move downwards while rotating in a seesaw fashion during rocking. The front end of the back cover  is connected to the seat-mounting fixture  by means of a connecting pin . When the chair rocks, the seat  moves forwards as a whole while the second section tilts backward.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08752896&OS=08752896&RS=08752896
owner: Itoki Corporation
number: 08752896
owner_city: Osaka-shi, Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20091130
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","RELATED ART DOCUMENTS","Patent Documents","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","Problems that the Invention is to Solve","Means for Solving the Problem","Advantages of the Invention","EMBODIMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE INVENTION","INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY","DESCRIPTIONS OF THE REFERENCE NUMERALS AND SYMBOLS"],"p":["The present invention relates to a rocking chair whose backrest tilts backwards against spring means (resilient means) and, more particularly, to a chair whose seat moves forwards concurrently with backward tilting action of the backrest.","Various contrivances are made to a rocking chair whose backrest tilts backwards in order to enhance amenity and a degree of satisfaction acquired in a rocking state. Patent Document 1 discloses, as one of such contrivances, a chair whose backrest lowers while tilting backwards and whose seat moves forwards while wholly tilting backwards when a seated person reclines against the backrest.","Forward movement of the seat resultant from rocking action contributes to yielding an advantage of making it easy to perform body stretching even at a small backward tilt angle of the backrest. For this reason, when compared with a case where only the backrest tilts backwards, a resting function per unit backward tilt angle can be enhanced (namely, a high comfortable state can be assured even when the chair is rocked through a small angle).","In Patent Document 1, the backrest tilts backwards while its lower end is moving forwards. In this tilted mode, an upper body of a seated person does not greatly bend backwards when rocking the chair. Accordingly, even when the seated person rocks the chair during operation of a keyboard or a mouse on a desk while viewing a monitor (a display) as in the case of; for instance, operation of a personal computer, the body is not much pulled away from the desk. Consequently, the user can continually perform working in a comfortable state while rocking the chair.","In Patent Document 1, a rear end of the seat becomes lower in a state of forward movement while the height of a front end of the seat remains unchanged, whereby the seat remains backwardly tilted as a whole. As a result of the seat tilting backwards, even when the backrest is lowered, a distance between a lower end of the backrest and a rear end of the seat substantially remains unchanged, so that no relative slippage exists between the backrest and the back of the seated person. As a consequence, it is understood that occurrence of a \u201ccurling-up-of-a-shirt\u201d phenomenon in which vertical slippage occurs between a shirt of a seated person and the back thereof can be prevented during rocking.","Patent Document 2 also discloses a chair similar to that described in connection with Patent Document 1. A seat is first described in connection with Patent Document 2. A seat base  is fitted to a base (a chassis body) , which is fastened to an upper end of a leg (a gas cylinder), so as to be slidable in backward and forward. A seat  is attached to the seat base . A joint member (a channel member)  standing upright behind a backrest  is fastened to a rear end of the sheet base . A lower portion of the backrest  is joined to the joint member  by way of a bracket  so as to be vertically slidable.","Moreover, a back support bar  standing upright behind the backrest  and the joint member  is fastened to the base . Thus, an upper end of the back support bar  and a back face of the backrest  are slidably joined together. According to Patent Document 2, when a seated person leans against the backrest , the backrest  in its entirety descends while remaining tilted around the upper end of the back support bar . Moreover, the seat  moves forwards in synchronism with descending action of the backrest .","A plurality of chairs whose seats move backwards when used as rocking chairs have already been put into practice. There are large numbers of documents, including Patent Document 3, in relation to the chairs. In many chairs, a backrest has a back shell (a back panel) made of resin. Disclosed in Patent Document 3 is, as means for attaching the back shell to a backrest frame positioned behind the back shell, to join a lower portion of the backrest to the backrest frame by means of right and left horizontal pins and to join an upper end of the backrest to a back frame in a slidable manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["Patent Document 1: JP-A-2000-236977","Patent Document 2: US2009\/0152921A1","Patent Document 3: JP-A-2009-165659"]}},"Work for manipulating a mouse, as in the case of PC and CAD operations, considerably accounts for today's office work. When a person manipulates a mouse while sitting on a chair, the person often manipulates the mouse while rocking the chair.","In this case, the person manipulates the mouse while viewing a monitor (a display) on a desk. However, during rocking action, the person must keep his\/her head upright in order to view the monitor from the front while his\/her body remains tilted backwards. There arises a problem of a neck being vulnerable to a strain because of such a postural misalignment between the body and the head. The postural misalignment between the body and the head occurred during rocking action becomes more noticeable with an increase in backward tilt angle of the backrest.","Moreover, a potential demand for doing work on a desk while assuming a rocking posture, can be said to be high. However, since an ordinary chair makes the upper body of the seated person greatly bend backwards while rocking, shoulders of the seated person are much pulled away from the desk by means of rocking action, which consequently raises a problem of making the person difficult to perform keyboard operation or writing work. These problems can be said to be improved to a certain extent by means of synchronously actuating the backrest and the seat as described in connection with Patent Documents 1 and 2.","However, according to Patent Document 1, the seat merely moves backwards in its entirety during rocking action. Hence, there is yielded the same result as that yielded when the backward tilt angle of the backrest decreases by the amount corresponding to an angle through which the seat tilts backwards. Consequently, it is said that an effect of enhancing a comfortable characteristic cannot be sufficiently accomplished.","On the other hand, in Patent Document 2, the backrest  descends during rocking action, but the seat merely moves forwards. Accordingly, the chair disclosed by Patent Document 2 lacks a function of embracing the body of the seated person by means of the backrest and the seat during rocking action. Therefore, the chair can be said to exhibit a high potential of insufficiently assuring a comfortable characteristic as in the case of the chair disclosed in Patent Document 1. Moreover, according to Patent Document 2, a height between the rear end of the seat and the rear end of the backrest changes during rocking action. Therefore, the chair disclosed in Patent Document 2 may cause the \u201ccurling-up-of-a-shirt\u201d phenomenon.","Further, when the seat moves forward during rocking, body stretching becomes easy. Therefore, a breech tends to be pushed forwards while pivoted around the backrest. As a consequence, the configuration in which the entirety of the seat merely moves backwards during rocking action, such as that described in connection with Patent Document 1, is expected to make the seated person feel as if his\/her breech (and femoral areas) slides forwards with respect to the seat. For this reason, there is a possibility that a fitting characteristic achieved during rocking action will not always be suffice. The same also holds true for Patent Document 2.","The related-art techniques can be said to be susceptible to structural improvements. Specifically, in relation to Patent Document 1, Patent Document 1 discloses a combination of the slide mechanism and the link mechanism in order to cause simultaneous actions of the backrest and the seat. This causes a problem of an overall structure of the chair being complicate. On the other hand, in Patent Document 2, simultaneous actions of the backrest and the seat are implemented by utilization of the simple slide mechanism; hence, the structure of the chair can be simplified. However, since active parts remain exposed, the parts uglify the chair. There is also a risk of fingers of the seated person or a material (e.g., a garment) being caught in the slide mechanism.","The invention of the present patent application has been conceived to improve the present situations. The present patent application discloses various improvements, and providing a rocking chair including the improvements should also be taken in as an objective of the present patent application.","A rocking chair of the present invention comprises a seat on which a person is to sit, a backrest against which a seated person leans, and a base section that supports the seat and the backrest and is basically configured in such a way that, when a seated person leans against the backrest, the seat moves forwards and the backrest tilts backwards while an upper end of the backrest moves backwards and while a lower end of the backrest moves forwards.","In a first invention, the seat has a first section including a front end of the seat and a second section including a rear end; the second section can tilt backwards with respect to the first section when viewed sideways; the backrest is supported by backrest guide means so as to descend while tilting backwards; the second section of the seat and the backrest are joined together in such a way that the second section of the seat tilts backwards when the backrest moves downward; and an entirety of the backrest descends while tilting backwards when the seated person leans against the backrest, so that the second section tilts backwards while the entirety of the seat is moving forward.","The first invention makes up a broader concept and can be developed in various ways. Examples of development of the first invention are second to ninth inventions. Of the inventions, the second invention is an embodiment of the first invention. Specifically, a second invention is based on the first invention, wherein the backrest includes a back panel and a cushion material stretched over a front surface of the back panel; the backrest guide means has back support that are affixed to the base section and that stand up behind the back panel; upper ends of the back support are situated at a height between an upper end and a lower end of the back panel; and a guide section that supports the backrest while tilting backwards and descending is provided at upper ends of the back support.","A third invention is based on the second invention, wherein the backrest has a back cover situated behind the back panel; the back cover is joined to the back support so as to tilt backwards while descending; the back panel is attached to the back cover in a state in which the back panel can become deformed under body pressure of the seated person; and the back cover and the second section of the seat are joined so as to move in conjunction with each other.","A fourth invention is based on the third invention, wherein the back support are arranged at a horizontally intermediate point on the back rest; a long groove into which the back support are to fit and that has a downwardly-oriented opening is opened at a horizontally intermediate position on the back cover, and cover means for covering the guide section is provided on the back cover and the back support regardless of back tilting of the backrest.","A fifth invention is based on the fourth invention, wherein the back support are configured of metal; a horizontally long guide pin is provided at the upper ends of the back support as an element of the backrest guide means; a vertically long guide groove into which the guide pin slidably fits is provided on an inner side surface of the long groove of the back cover as an element of the backrest guide means; a support cover for closing the long groove of the back cover is attached to the back support; and the backrest guide means is covered from behind without regard to backward tilting of the backrest as a result of an upper end of the support cover being disposed in the back cover.","A sixth invention is based on the third to fifth inventions, wherein the first section of the seat is attached to a seat-mounting shell disposed below the first section; the seat-mounting shell is attached to the base section so as to be slidable in a front-back direction; the back cover has a front facing section that extends below the second section of the seat; the second section of the seat and the front facing section of the back cover are joined so as to be relatively movable; and a rear edge of the seat-mounting shell and a front edge of the front facing section of the back cover overlap each other in such a way that a finger of a person cannot be inserted into spacing therebetween.","A seventh invention is based on the second through fifth inventions, wherein the backrest is joined to the back support so as to descend while tilting backwards around a substantially intermediate point on the backrest in its vertical direction or a height close to the intermediate point.","An eighth invention is based on the first through fifth inventions, wherein the seat has a seat panel made of resin and a cushion material stretched over an upper surface of the seat panel; and the first section and the second section are formed by making a hinge in the seat panel, to thus make the seat panel bendable, or by separating the seat panel into a front section and a back section and joining the front section to the back section in a bendable manner.","A ninth invention is based on the first or second invention, wherein the first section of the seat is attached to a first intermediate fixture joined to the base section so as to be movable back and forth; the second section of the seat is attached to a second intermediate fixture joined to the first intermediate fixture so as to be tiltable in a backward; and the backrest is attached to the back support affixed to the second fixture.","(1) Advantages of the Present Invention (the First Invention)","In the invention of the present patent application, the second section of the seat and the backrest are joined together. Hence, during rocking action, the second section tilts backwards while the entirety of the seat is moving forward in synchronism with downward movement and backward titling of the backrest. As a result of the second section of the seat tilting backwards, a breech of the seated person tends to sag, thereby assuring a high fitting characteristic. As a result of the second section of the seat tilting backwards, the tilt angle of the backrest can be maximized while broadening of spacing between the rear end of the seat and the lower end of the backrest and occurrence of a so-called curling-up-of-a-shirt phenomenon are prevented or suppressed. Hence, when compared with a case where the entirety of the seat tilts backwards or when the seat moves merely forwards, amenity achieved during rocking action can be enhanced (a feeling of an upthrust of a femoral area caused by a front end of the seat during rocking action can also be prevented).","The backrest tilts around a position between an upper end and a lower end of the backrest. An upper body of the seated person does not much move backward during rocking action. Hence, the seated person can easily view a monitor on a desk in a rocking state and also can operate a keyboard and a mouse on the desk while assuming a rocking position.","Accordingly, the chair of the present invention can be said to be suitable for current office work. In addition, the second section (a back section) of the seat tilts backwards during rocking action. Since the chair exhibits superior body stability and fitting in a rocking state, the seated person can perform desk work even in a rocking state; namely, while sitting deeply in the chair. This is one of major characteristics of the invention of the present patent application.","Since the backrest involves small amounts of backward movement even when tilting backwards, a risk of the chair in a rocking state lying in a way of the other person who passes behind the chair can be considerably lessened. Since the upper body of the seated parson does not much bend backwards during rocking action, large force of an abdominal muscle is not required when the body returns to a non-rocking state. Therefore, the chair is suitable for women who are generally inferior to men in terms of the abdominal muscle.","Further, women show a high tendency toward avoiding a rocking posture that involving a much bend of the body because of appearance. However, the invention of the present patent application enables rocking action (reclining) of the chair in an unnoticeable manner. Hence, the chair is suitable for women.","(2) Advantage Unique to the Second Invention","In the second invention, a load acting on the backrest during rocking action is supported by the back support from behind. Hence, a superior supporting stability of the backrest is exhibited, and high practical utility is achieved.","(3) Advantage Unique to the Third Invention","In the third invention, the back panel becomes deformed under body pressure of the seated person. Hence, a cushioning characteristic achieved during rocking action can be enhanced. Since the back cover acts as a strength member for the back rest, a concern about strength does not arise in spite of the backrest that can assure cushioning characteristics. Moreover, the back cover acting as a backrest strength member and the second section of the seat are joined together. Hence, the structure of the chair can be simplified while the number of components is curtailed. As mentioned above, the third invention yields many advantages.","(4) Advantages Unique to the Fourth Invention","Forms of the back support and the back cover can be variously embodied. For instance, the back support are placed at two positions along the right-left direction while separated from each other, and the back cover can also be joined to the right and left back support. However, this form may complicate the structure of the chair. On the contrary, the configuration described in connection with the fourth invention provides a simple structure in which the back support is placed at one location. Further, the guide section of the back support is covered with cover means at all times without regard to rocking action. Hence, there is no risk of a finger of a person or an article being caught by the guide section. Thus, safety can be assured.","(5) Advantages Unique to the Fifth Invention","The back support can also be formed in their entirety from resin or by means of die casting of aluminum. If the entirety of the back support is formed from resin, concerns may arise in the back support in terms of strength. On the other hand, if the back support is wholly made by die casting aluminum, cost may increase. However, as described in connection with the fifth invention, the back support are configured of metal, and the support cover made of resin is attached to the back support, thereby yielding an advantage of the ability to curtail cost while strength and aesthetic of the chair are assured.","(6) Advantages Unique to the Sixth Invention","According to the sixth invention, the front facing section of the back cover can be used also as an under cover of the second section of the seat, so that the entire structure of the chair becomes simple. Further, during rocking action, the seat-mounting shell and the back cover tilt relatively to each other while moving forward in conjunction with each other. The rear end of the seat-mounting shell and the front end of the front facing section of the back cover are held in an overlapping manner. Hence, even when the person extends his\/her hand below the seat, fingers will not be caught between the rear end of the seat-mounting shell and the front end of the back cover, so that the chair is safe.","(7) Advantages Unique to the Seventh Invention","In Patent Document 2, during rocking, a joint member (a channel member)  is pushed forward by means of turning action of the backrest. The seat is moved forwards by means of forward movement of the joint member (the channel member) . Consequently, a pivot must be placed as closely as possible to the lower end of the backrest such that the lower end of the back rest moves forwards during rocking. As a result, the body tends to bend backwards during rocking, and a great spring is needed as spring means for imparting resistance to rocking action.","On the contrary, in the seventh invention of the present patent application, a tilting fulcrum (a pivot) of the backrest is situated at a high position. Hence, it is possible to prevent accurately the body from bending backwards during rocking action. Further, exertion of great moment on the backrest during rocking action is prevented, and weak spring can also be used for rocking spring means.","In many cases, in the rocking chair, initial elastic force of the rocking spring means can be adjusted. This is because the moment exerted on the backrest during rocking can be changed according to the weight of the seated person.","On the contrary, in the seventh invention, a) great moment does not occur in the backrest during rocking action. Hence, even when the weight of the seated person varies, the difference in weight does not appear as a difference in moment on the backrest. Further, b) a portion of the weight of the seated person, acts on the seat. For this reason, the weight of the seated person acts as counterforce for hindering backward tilting of the backrest during rocking action. However, the counterforce is proportional to the weight of the seated person. Because of these two reasons, appropriate counterforce is imparted to persons having different weights even when the initial elastic force of the rocking spring is not adjusted. Accordingly, a device for adjusting initial elastic force of the rocking spring is eliminated, and the structure of the chair can be simplified (providing an elastic force adjuster is not eliminated).","(8) Advantages Unique to the Eighth Invention","The first section and the second section of the seat can also be embodied as separate members. However, when the configuration of the eighth invention is adopted, the integrity of the seat panel is held by the cushioning material even when the seat panel is bended. Hence, the seat exhibits superior comfortable feeling. In this case, when the seat panel is given an integrated structure and a hinge section, means for joining the first section to the second section becomes obviated. Hence, the structure of the seat can be correspondingly simplified.","(9) Advantages Unique to the Ninth Invention","There is a case where the backrest does not always need the back cover. Further, there is also conceived a case where the back cover is made; for instance, removable, and where only a protective function is desired to be imparted to the back cover. In such a case, the backrest and the seat can be synchronized without involvement of a necessity for the back cover by adoption of the ninth invention.","Embodiments of the present invention are now described by reference to the drawings.  show a first embodiment, and  and subsequent drawings show a second embodiment. The embodiments are sequentially described. Words \u201cfront-back,\u201d \u201cnear side,\u201d \u201cback,\u201d \u201cright-left,\u201d and the like, are used to designate directions in the following descriptions. The words designate orientations while a posture of a person sit in a rocking chair (hereinafter simply referred to as a \u201cchair\u201d) is taken as a reference. \u201cFront view\u201d shows a state in which the chair is viewed in a direction opposing the seated person.","(1) Summary of the First Embodiment","First, a summary of the embodiment is primarily described by reference to . The chair of the present embodiment is applied to a so-called swivel chair for business purpose. The chair includes, as principal elements, a leg unit , a base section , a seat , a backrest , a back support , and armrest devices .","The leg unit  has a leg support  built from a gas cylinder. The leg support  is fitted into a center of a leg body having a plurality of radially-expanding branched legs (five legs in general). As shown in; for instance, , the base section  has a housing-shaped base body  that is affixed to an upper end of the leg support  and opened upwardly and a seat-mounting fixture  that is attached to an upper end of the base body  so as to be slidable in a front-back direction.","The armrest devices  are optional parts and removably attached to the base body  (which will be described later). After removal of the armrest devices , mount holes are opened in the base body . The mount holes are closed respectively by removable resin covers (see , , and others).","The seat  has a seat panel (a seat inner shell)  and a seat cushion body  stretched over an upper surface of the seat panel. The seat cushion body  is covered with a surface skin, like a cloth. A substantially front half of the seat panel  is attached to an upper surface of a seat-mounting shell (a seat outer shell) . The seat-mounting shell  and the seat panel  are injection-molded articles made of a synthetic resin, like PP (polypropylene), that is a raw material. However, they can also be formed from metal or wood.","Roughly speaking, the seat panel  has a first section making up a front section and a second section making up a back section. A group of slits are formed in an area between the first section and the second section along a right-left direction of the seat . The slit is formed in numbers primarily around an area on which body pressure of the seated person intensively acts (see , , and ). As shown in , both longitudinal ends of some of the slits are jointed together by means of U-shaped reinforcement sections , each of which has an upwardly-U-shaped cross section and is positioned such that both front-back sides of the reinforcement sections between which the slits are interposed straddle the slits from below. Therefore, excessive stretch of the seat panel, which would otherwise be caused by the slits , is prevented.","The group of slits allow downward stretching deformation of the seat panel caused by the body pressure of the seated person, as a result of which a high fitting characteristic is achieved. Moreover, the area of the seat panel  where the slits are formed acts as a hinge section (i.e., a bendable area). Accordingly, the first section and the second section are provided so as to make a continual connection by way of the bendable hinge section. Since the seat cushion body  is elastically deformable, the seat  is divided into a first section and a second section in correspondence with the first section and the second section of the seat panel . The first section and the second section are relatively bendable when viewed sideways.","A center line (a folding line) of a curvature of the seat  is set to about a position that a coccygeal bone of the seated person contacts or a point located slightly in front of that position. Although the hinge of the present embodiment has a planar spread, the hinge can also be a single line. The second section of the seat panel  is joined to a front facing section (a base section) of the back cover  to be described later. Hence, when the back cover  tilts backwards while sinking (descending), the second section () bends itself as if it sank with respect to the first section ().","The seat-mounting shell  can also be deemed to be a portion of the seat . Alternatively, a seat section can also be said to be made up of the seat  and the seat-mounting shell .","For instance, as shown in , the backrest  is primarily made up of the back cover , a back panel  attached to a front surface of the back cover , and a back cushion body  attached to a front surface of the back panel . A skin material, like a cloth, is stretched over the back cushion body . The back cover  can also be referred to as a back outer shell, and the back panel  can also be referred to as a back inner shell. The back cover  and the back panel  are injection-molded articles that use, as a raw material, a synthetic resin like PP.","The back cover  has a body section that supports the back panel  and the front facing section forwardly projecting from a lower end of the body section . Accordingly, the back cover  assumes a substantially-L-shaped appearance when viewed sideways. As mentioned previously, the front facing section of the back cover  is joined to the second section of the seat panel . The back cover  is joined to the back support  so as to be able to move downwards and tilt.","When the seated person leans against the backrest , the backrest  moves downwards while tilting backwards in such a way that an upper end of the backrest  moves backwards and that a lower end of the same moves forwards. In the meantime, the second section tilts backwards with respect to the first section while the seat  moves forwards in its entirety. Details of the respective sections are hereunder described in detail.","(2) Back Support and Base Section","First, the back support  and the base section  are described. The back support  of the embodiment includes back support  made up of a pair of right and left pipes formed in an L-shaped form when viewed from sideways, and a support cover  that is removably attached to the back support  from behind. The right and left back support  are joined together by means of a reinforcement member . In another embodiment, the back support  can also be formed as a single molded article made of a resin material or an aluminum molded material.","Bases of the back support  making up the back support  are welded to a base plate  affixed to an interior surface of the base body . Moreover, the bases are pressed and held by reinforcement hardware  (see; for instance,  and ). The back support  can also be formed from a single pipe member or a channel member.","The base body  assumes an upwardly-opened box-shaped appearance as mentioned previously, and a rear end of the base body  is opened up. The base plate  is welded to the interior surface of the back portion of the base body . For instance, as shown in , a bush  whose top and bottom are opened is affixed to the base body  and the base plate . An upper end of the leg support  is fitted into the bush  from below. For instance, as shown in , an elevation lever  for actuating a push valve of the leg support  is provided on one side surface of the base body . An operation lever  for switching the backrest  between a rockable state and an unrockale state is provided on the other side surface of the base body .","For instance, as shown in  and , long holes  are formed on respective left and right side plates of the base body  so as to be elongated along the longitudinal direction of the base body . A bush made of a resin is attached to each of the long holes . A joint shaft , which is elongated in its right-left direction, is inserted into the respective right and left bushes so as to be slidable in the front-back direction. The joint shaft  is inserted into the right and left sides of a rear end of the seat-mounting fixture . Accordingly, mount holes  are opened in the seat-mounting fixture . The seat panel  is screw-fastened to an upper surface of the seat-mounting fixture .","As shown in; for instance, , a rocking spring (coil spring)  that extends and contracts in the front-back direction is placed in the base body  as example rocking elastic means. On the other hand, a downwardly-oriented spring-mounting supporting piece  is formed at a rear end of the seat-mounting fixture . For instance, as shown in , the rocking spring  is supported from back by the spring-mounting supporting piece  by way of a back spring mount . Further, a front end of the rocking spring  is supported by a front wall of the base body  by way of a front spring mount . Consequently, the seat-mounting fixture  moves forwards in defiance of the rocking spring .","As shown in , horizontal pieces oriented outside along the right-left direction are formed integrally on respective upper ends of the right, left side plates of the base body . Slidable ancillary bodies  made of resin are attached to the respective horizontal pieces . The slidable ancillary body  assumes a substantially-groove-like cross section so as to embrace the corresponding horizontal piece ","A groove-shaped enfolding section  that enfolds each of the slidable ancillary body  from outside is formed on each of the right and left sides of the seat-mounting fixture . The enfolding sections  slide with respect to the respective slidable ancillary bodies , whereby the seat-mounting fixture  smoothly slides with respect to the base body  in the front-back direction.","As shown in , the seat-mounting shell  has receiving sections situated below the respective enfolding sections  of the seat-mounting fixture . A weir body is provided at a leading end of each of the receiving sections so as to project upwards (see also ). Therefore, the receiving section assumes the shape of an upwardly-opened watershoot. Accordingly, in a case where grease is applied over an exterior surface of the slidable ancillary bodies  and when the grease has dropped, the receiving sections can receive the grease, thereby making it possible to prevent a floor from being stained with the grease. Such a configuration and advantage are not suggested or taught at all by Patent Documents 1 through 3.","As can be understood from; for instance, , a downwardly-opened long groove  is formed in a center of the back cover  along its right-left direction. Therefore, the front facing section of the back cover  is split into right and left front facing sub-sections. A shaft mounting section  is formed at a front end of each of the right and left front facing sub-sections of the back cover . The right and left shaft mounting sections  are connected to rear ends of the right and left side plates of the base body  by means of the joint shaft .","As can be seen from , the enfolding sections  of the seat-mounting fixture  are covered with the seat-mounting shell . As shown in  and , a cover section  is formed integrally at a rear end of the seat-mounting shell , and the joint shaft  is covered with the cover section . For this reason, the joint shaft  is held so as not to fall off from the base body . Further, as shown in; for instance,  and , right and left steps  that are put, in an overlapping manner, on front edges of the respective front facing sections of the back cover  are formed at a rear end of the seat-mounting shell .","As shown in , a lock arm  for switching the backrest  between a rockable state and an unrockable state is provided in the base body . The lock arm  is joined to the base body  so as to turn up and down around a front end of the lock arm . A long hole  into which a crank section formed at a leading end of the operation lever  (see ) is to fit is formed on a free end of the lock arm .","When the operation lever  is turned in such a way that the crank section moves upwards, the lock arm  is pushed up by way of the long hole . When the free end of the lock arm  is moved upwards, the joint shaft  fits into a stopper engagement section formed in a recessed manner in an upper surface of the lock arm . As a result, the joint shaft  remains unable to move forwards, so that the backrest  also becomes unable to tilt backwards. When operation is performed in the reverse order, the lock arm  is disengaged from the joint shaft , so that the backrest  becomes able to tilt backwards.","(3) Structure of a Back Section","A structure of a back section is now described. As mentioned previously, the downwardly-opened vertically long groove  is formed in the back cover . The long groove  is closed by the back support  in both a normal state in which the backrest  is not in a rocking state and another state where the backrest  is in a rocking state.","As can be seen from; for instance,  and , the long groove  extends up to a position of an arbitrary height of the body section of the back cover  along the vertical direction. A plurality of joint sections  that straddle the long groove  are formed integrally at arbitrary points on the front facing sections along the front-back direction and an arbitrary point on the main body along the vertical direction. By virtue of the joint sections , rigidity of the back cover  is maintained even when the long groove  is formed. Moreover, a group of cell-shaped reinforcement ribs  for enhancing rigidity are formed in an area on the interior surface of the back cover  corresponding to the outside of the long groove .","As shown in; for instance, , a reinforcement bracket  is affixed to an upper end of the back support . A guide pin  serving as one of backrest guide means (a guide section) described in connection with claims is affixed to the reinforcement bracket . Both ends of the guide pin  are exposed outside from both the right and left sides of the reinforcement bracket .","On the other hand, as clearly shown in; for instance, , vertically long guide grooves  are formed opposite each other as one of the backrest guide means in upper portions of the right and left side surfaces of the long groove  in the back cover . A guide member  having a slide groove is fitted into each of the right and left guide grooves . An end of the guide pin  is fitted into the slide groove of the corresponding guide member  so as to be slidable in the vertical direction (the guide grooves can also be said to be formed in the respective guide members ).","Each of the guide members  is curved into a front facing recess at a small curvature when viewed sideways. The guide members  are preferably formed from resin that exhibits small sliding resistance against the metal guide pin  and abrasion resistance. The guide members  may also be formed from metal, and a sliding portion of the guide pin  can also be coated with fluorine. The guide members  may also be fixed to the guide grooves  and attached so as to be slightly movable. In another embodiment, the guide pin  can also be fitted directly into the guide grooves  of the back cover . The guide members  may also be provided on the back support , and the guide pin  can also be attached to the back cover .","The support cover  is removably attached to the back support  from behind. As shown in , substantially-U-shaped fitting grooves to fit around the back support  (see ) are formed like notches in respective catch ribs  formed on the interior surface of the support cover . A remaining groove  is formed in an opening of each of the fitting grooves . Therefore, the catch ribs  can be attached to or removed from the back support  by utilization of deformation in defiance to elasticity of the catch ribs .","The support cover  has right and left side plates . Notches  for letting both ends of the guide pin  escape are formed in upper portions of the right and left side plates . Further, as shown in , a downwardly-opened pocket-shaped fitting section  is formed in an upper portion of the interior surface of the support cover , and an engagement claw  is formed in a lower portion of the interior surface of the support cover .","As shown in , in order to attach the support cover  to the back support , the fitting section  is fitted to an upper end of the reinforcement bracket  from above; the catch ribs  are fitted to the back support ; and also the engagement claw  is fitted to an engagement hole \u2032 formed in a rear end of the base plate .","In order to assemble the back section, processing should go through a sequence of attaching the support cover  to the back support , attaching the back cover  to the back support , and attaching the back panel  to the back cover . The support cover  can also be finally attached to the back support  ( shows the attachment).","As shown in; for instance, , upper ends of the guide grooves  and the guide members  are situated at positions higher than an upper end edge of the long groove . In the normal state where the backrest  is not in a rocking state, an upper end edge of the support cover  is folded inside (toward an up side) of the upper end edge of the long groove  by a slight dimension H. Put another way, the upper end of the support cover  is covered with the back cover  from behind even in the normal state.","When the chair is rocked, the back cover  moves downwards while turning (pivoting) in a seesaw manner around the guide pin . However, the support cover  is stationary and does not move even in the rocking state. Hence, the guide pin  is always covered with the back cover  and the support cover . Therefore, superior appearance is accomplished, and there is little chance of; for instance, a finger of a person being caught between the guide pin  and the back cover  (safety can be assured).","As mentioned previously, in a rocking state, the backrest  tilts backwards while sinking with respect to the back support  assuming a constant posture. However, in this case, the movement of the back cover  cannot be hindered by the support cover . Further, spacing sufficient for insertion of a finger must not exist between the back cover  and the support cover . Accordingly, when the chair rocks, the back cover  must be vertically moved while the upper end edge of the long groove  is held in proximity to the support cover .","In the embodiment, a back surface of the back cover  and a back surface of the support cover  are set so as to be substantially aligned to each other in the normal state that is taken as a standard state. However, on the occasion of rocking action, the back cover  tilts in such a way that the lower end of the back cover  comes to the near side. Hence, the upper end edge of the long groove  plots a locus that moves downwards while moving to the near side. Accordingly, as shown in  and , a portion of the support cover  where the back cover  slides is stepped inside. Therefore, a step is formed in the support cover . If the step has a sharp edge, the finger may be caught by the step. Hence, the step is formed into a back-oriented rounded recess.","Needless to say, from the viewpoint of superior appearance and prevention of catching of a finger, it is preferable to minimize spacing between the interior side surfaces of the long groove  and the side plates of the support cover . In the present embodiment, the upper end of the support cover  is inserted into the interior of the back cover , thereby making up cover means described in connection with the claims.","Fitting of engagement claws is adopted as a method for attaching the back panel  to the back cover . As shown in; for instance, , three upper-row horizontally-arranged engagement claws  are projectingly arranged side by side at an upper end of a front surface of the back cover . Middle-row engagement claws  are arranged on both sides, in the horizontal direction, of and at substantially intermediate arbitrary points on the front surface of the back cover  in the vertical direction. Lower-row engagement claws  are projectingly provided on both right and left sides of a lower portion of the front surface of the back cover . On the other hand, three rows of engagement sections , , and , only the positions of which are merely shown in , are provided on the back panel  in correspondence with the engagement claws , , and  of the back cover .","A catch technique is adopted as means for joining the second section of the seat panel  to the front facing sections of the back cover . As shown in , a rear joint hole  whose top and bottom are opened is formed in each of the right and left front facing sections  of the back cover , and a rear engagement claw  having a hook shape when viewed from front is formed outside the rear joint hole . As shown in , a rear stopper  to fit into the rear engagement hole  and a second side engagement claw  to slidably engage with the rear engagement claw  from front are formed on the second section of the seat panel .","As a result of the second side engagement claws  engaging with the respective rear engagement claws , the second section is held so as to be unable to move in the horizontal direction and also unable to separate from the respective front facing sections in the upward direction. As a result of the rear stoppers  fitting into the respective rear engagement holes , the second section is held so as to be unable to move in the front-back direction.","The first section of the seat panel  is also jointed to the seat-mounting shell  by the catch means. As shown in , an upper front stopper  having a hook shape when viewed sideways is formed at an intermediate position of the front portion, in the horizontal direction, of the first section of the seat panel . Further, a pair of first female side engagement claws  arranged in the front-back direction are formed on each of the right and left sides of the first section of the seat panel . As shown in , a lower front stopper  with which the front stopper  is to engage from front is formed on the seat-mounting shell . Further, first male side engagement claws , each of which has a hook shape when viewed from front, are formed on the seat-mounting shell . The first female side engagement claws  slidably engage with the first male side engagement claws  from front.","As a result of the first female side engagement claws  engaging with the first male side engagement claws , the first section of the seat panel  are held so as to be unable to move in both the horizontal and upward directions. Further, as a result of the upper front stopper  engaging with the lower front stopper  from the near side, the first section of the seat panel  is also held so as to be unable to move in the backward direction. Forward movement of the seat panel  is hindered as a result of the rear stoppers  of the second section engaging with the rear engagement holes  of the back cover .","(4) Summary of the First Embodiment","In the above structure, in a rocking state, the second section (back section) tilts backwards while the seat  is moving forwards in its entirety. Moreover, the backrest  moves downwards while turning (pivoting) in a seesaw fashion around the vertically middle arbitrary point on the backrest acting as a fulcrum. Hence, the seated person is enfolded by the backrest  and the seat  in the rocking state. Therefore, a comfortable rocking state can be realized (advantages of the basic movements are described after explanation of a second embodiment).","The location of the guide pin  that joins the back support  to the back cover  is covered at all times with the back cover  and the support cover  during rocking action. Hence, superior appearance and safety are accomplished. Moreover, the steps  on the rear end of the seat-mounting shell  and the front end of the front facing section of the back cover  vertically overlap each other. Hence, a finger of the person will not be caught between the seat-mounting shell  and the back cover , so that safety is assured accordingly.","The back support  and the guide pin  can also be fully covered with the back cover . However, in this case, the back cover  must be situated behind the back support  in a rocking state, such as that shown in . Hence, the back cover  greatly bulges in the backward, which terribly worsens the appearance of the chair. On the contrary, in the present embodiment, the back support  is placed in the long groove  of the back cover , thereby preventing the guide pin  from being exposed. Hence, the entirety of the chair becomes simple, so that safety can be assured while superior appearance is accomplished. This is one of the advantages of the present embodiment.","Various means can be selected as means for synchronously actuating the backrest  and the seat . In the present embodiment, the seat-mounting fixture  and the front facing section of the back cover  are joined together by means of the joint pin  that is slidable in the front-back direction. As a result, the backrest  and the seat  can be smoothly actuated by a simple structure in a synchronous manner without fail. This is also one of the advantages of the present embodiment. The upper end of the support cover  is inserted into the back cover , whereby the support cover  cannot be forcefully opened from above. Hence, the chair is also superior even in that the support cover  is held in an attached state.","A line-shaped hinge (a fold line) can also be provided as means for separating the seat panel  into the first section and the second section . However, the slits are formed so as to be aligned in the front-back direction, such as that described in connection with the embodiment, thereby forming the hinge section having a width in the front-back direction. As a result, the seat  bends itself at a gentle curvature during rocking action, so that there is yielded an advantage of preventing the seated person from having uncomfortable feeling.","(5) Summary of a Second Embodiment","Next, a second embodiment is described. Members having functions in common with the members described in connection with the first embodiment are assigned the same reference numerals. Explanations about the members having the same functions as those of the members described in connection with the first embodiment are basically omitted. In the present embodiment, the backrest  is attached to back support . A lumber support  that forwardly pushes an area where a hip of the seated person contacts is interposed between the back support  and the backrest . The lumber support  is supported by the back support  in such a way that the height of the lumber support  can be adjusted from behind.","The chair also has the base body  whose top is opened even in the present embodiment. First intermediate fixture  is attached to the base body  so as to be slidable in the front-back direction by way of a first pin . A second intermediate fixture  is joined to a rear end of the first intermediate fixture  by means of a horizontally-long second pin (a first support shaft) . The seat  is supported by the first intermediate fixture  and the second intermediate fixture  by way of the seat-mounting shell . The base section  additionally has a lower bracket  fixed to a lower surface of the base body . The back support  is affixed to the lower bracket .","The first pin  is slidably fitted into a second long hole  that is formed in the base body  and horizontal along the front-back direction. The second pin  is also slidably fitted in a second long hole  that is formed in the base body  and horizontal along the front-back direction. Therefore, the first intermediate fixture , the second intermediate fixture , and the seat-mounting shell  and the seat  that are supported by them are slidable in the front-back direction. Further, the second intermediate fixture  can tilt around the second pin .","The seat-mounting shell  is separated into a first section that accounts for about two-thirds of a front facing portion of the seat-mounting shell  and a second section that accounts for about one-third of a back facing portion of the same. The first section is attached to the first intermediate fixture , and the second section is attached to the second intermediate fixture . Moreover, the seat  is also made up of a first section that accounts for about two-thirds of a front facing portion of the seat  and a second section that accounts for about one-third of a back facing portion of the same. Both the sections and are bendably continuous in such a way that the second section tilts backwards with respect to the first section ","The first section of the seat  is affixed to the first section of the seat-mounting shell , and the second section of the seat  is affixed to the second section of the seat-mounting shell . Accordingly, the seat  in its entirety slides in the front-back direction, and the second section can tilt backwards with respect to the first section when viewed sideways. It can be said that an about 5:5 to 7:3 ratio is appropriate as a dimensional ratio of the first section to the second section in the front-back direction.","A back surface of an area of the backrest  close to its upper end is fixed to upper ends of the back support . Further, a downwardly-oriented stopper  is provided at a lower end of the backrest . The downwardly-oriented stopper  remains in contact with a horizontally-oriented stopper  provided on the back support  from behind so as to be movable in the vertical direction. Therefore, the lumber support  is vertically moved, to thus make it possible to change a projection mode of the backrest .","A guide body  is affixed to point on the respective back support  close to their upper ends (i.e., substantially intermediate points on the backrest  along the vertical direction). The guide body  is fitted to the guide pin  provided at an upper end of the back support  so as to be vertically slidable. Accordingly, when the seated person leans against the backrest , the backrest  wholly moves downwards while an upper end of the backrest  is moving backwards in a tilting manner and while a lower end of the same is moving forwards. The second section tilts backwards while the entirety of the seat  moves forwards.","Each of the armrest devices  has an arm support  fixed to the lower bracket , an elevation body  attached to the arm support  in such a way that a height of the elevation body  is adjustable, and an arm pad  attached to an upper end of the elevation body . The arm pad  assumes a narrowly-elongated shape when viewed from above and is attached to the elevation body  so as to be turnable in the horizontal direction. Further, the arm support  is attached to the lower bracket  so as to be turnable in the front-back direction. More precisely, in a state in which the arm support has been fully turned in the forward direction, the arm support remains tilted forwardly at a slight angle \u03b8 with respect to the normal line. In a state in which the arm support has been fully tilted backwards, the arm support tilts backwards (is inclined in the backward direction) at an angle \u03b8 that is larger than the front tilt angle \u03b8. A turn angle (\u03b8+\u03b8) of the entire arm support is set to about 25\u00b0 (preferably within a range from 20 to 30\u00b0).","When performing work, such as keyboard operation, while his\/her arms resting on the arm pads , the arm pads  must be set so as to be about the same height as that of a desk top plate D or slightly higher than the height. However, when the arm rest devices  are stationary and do not swing, the arm pads  collide against the top plate D, so that the chair cannot be slid deep into the desk. On the contrary, in the present embodiment, the arm rest devices  tilt (turn) back and forth, so that the chair can be slid deep into the desk. As a consequence, a preferable working position can be selected.","Each of the arm rest devices  is pushed in a forward tilting direction by means of an absorber  having a built-in spring. Further, each of the arm pads  is pushed by a built-in attitude retaining device of the corresponding armrest device  so as to return to a landscape orientation in which one end of the arm pad  is situated above the seat . The arm pads  can also be slid without resistance in the longitudinal (the horizontal direction) in the landscape orientation. Further, the arm pads  are set so as to retain their postures in a non-portrait orientation in which the arm pads extend in the front-back direction.","(6) Details of the Base Section","Detailed structures of the base section  and the seat  are now described. First, details of the base section  are described. As can be seen from; for instance, , an ancillary bracket  is welded to an interior surface of the rear portion of the base body , and the upper end of the leg support  is fitted to the bush  that is fixed to the base body  and the ancillary bracket .","For instance, as shown in , the first intermediate fixture  assumes the shape of a groove that covers the base body  from above and that is downwardly opened. The first pin  and the second pin  penetrate through a side plate . As shown in; for instance,  and , the second long hole  and the second long hole  are formed in each of the side plates of the base body . Although a bush made of a resin is fitted into the second long holes , the bush can also be fitted to the second long holes , as well.","For instance, as shown in , the base body  has a front plate , and the front spring mount is fixed to the front plate with screws. The back spring mount is supported from behind by the first pin . A groove into which the first pin  is to fit and whose back is opened is formed in the back spring mount . A bottom plate of the base body  forms a step at a position below the front spring mount , the back spring mount , and the rocking spring . The front spring mount and the back spring mount are retained by the step in a non-rotatable manner.","As shown in , a horizontal width of the first intermediate fixture  is considerably larger than a horizontal width of the base body . On the other hand, the lower bracket  has an upwardly-opened shape and assumes substantially the same horizontal width as that of the first intermediate fixture . A horizontal section \u2032 of the back support  is welded to both right and left ends of the lower bracket .","The second intermediate fixture  assumes a groove that has a top plate and right and left side plates and that is downwardly opened when viewed from front. The right and left side plates are situated outside the first intermediate fixture , and the second pin  penetrates through the side plates . The right and left side plates project forwardly from the top plate, and the second pin  penetrates through the forwardly-projecting portions.","(7) Structure of the Seat and Attaching Means","As can be seen from  and , the entirety of the seat-mounting shell  assumes the shape of an upwardly-opened shallow tray. As shown in , a rear end of the seat-mounting shell assumes the shape of a wall that rises upright while gently being curved upwards.","As shown in , a plurality of slits  are formed primarily in the area of the seat panel  on which the body pressure of the seated person intensively acts. The group of slits , allow downward extension and deformation, which would be caused by the body pressure of the seated person. As a consequence, a high cushioning characteristic is yielded. The seat panel  is separated into the first section and the second section in correspondence with the seat , whereby flexion of the seat  is allowed.","In the present embodiment, the entirety of the seat cushion body  is continuous. However, the seat cushion body  can be separated into a first section and a second section, whereby the entirety of the seat  can be configured in a separated manner.","As shown in  and , the seat panel  and the seat-mounting shell  are integrally joined together by means of engaging male engagement sections  and female engagement sections  provided on the respective left and right ends with each other. The female engagement sections  are engaged into the male engagement sections  from above. Next, the seat panel  is slid backwards, whereupon the engagement sections mesh with each other, whereby the seat panel  and the seat-mounting shell  are held so as to be unable to separate from each other in the vertical direction.","As shown in , a pair of right and left front engagement claws  that fit to a top plate of the first intermediate fixture  from the near side are formed in an area of the seat-mounting shell  close to the front end of the first section . Moreover, as shown in , front notches  into which the front engagement claws  are to fit without involvement of horizontal displacement are formed in the first intermediate fixture . A rear stopper  that fits into a rear cutout  formed in the rear end of the first intermediate fixture  is formed in the rear end of the first section of the seat-mounting shell . Accordingly, the first section of the seat-mounting shell  is held by the first intermediate fixture  so as not to be susceptible to front-back and right-left displacements or upward removal.","On the other hand, as shown in  and , a stopper plate  extending backwards from the top plate are fixed to a lower surface of the top plate of the second intermediate fixture  with screws . Two cutouts  are formed on the right and left sides on a rear edge of the stopper plate . Moreover, rear engagement claws  that fit to the notches  of the stopper plate  from behind are formed in the second section of the seat-mounting shell . Accordingly, the seat-mounting shell  is held by the front-back engagement claws  and  so as not to undergo upward removal.","As shown in  and , the first section and the second section of the seat-mounting shell  are continual by way of right and left hinge sections . The hinge sections assume a horizontal posture when viewed from front. Therefore, the seat-mounting shell  bends itself around the hinge sections . Put another word, the second section tilts backwards around the hinge sections ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0161"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24(A)","FIG. 24(B)","FIG. 24(C)","FIGS. 24(B)"],"b":["11","11","11","11","11","11","11","11"],"i":["c","c ","a ","b ","c ","a ","b "]},"As shown in; for instance, , each of the arm supports  has an inwardly-oriented horizontal section . The horizontal section is attached to a side bracket , which is welded to the side surface of the lower bracket , by way of a bush  so as to be turnable in the front-back direction. A downwardly-oriented arm  is fixed to a position on the horizontal section that is outside the side bracket . The absorber  is joined to a lower end of each of the downwardly-oriented arms  and each of the side brackets  by way of pins  and  so as to be turnable in a relative fashion. A hole (not shown) for letting the absorber  escape is formed in each of the side brackets .","(8) Structure of the Back Section","The backrest  and a structure for attaching the backrest  are now described by reference to  and  as well as to the previously-described drawings. As shown in , the two back support  are provided on the right and left sides with the vertical centerline interposed therebetween. A horizontally-long upper member  is fixed to the upper ends of the back support , and the back panel  is affixed to the upper member . As shown in , back face ribs  that overlap the upper member  of the back support  are formed integrally on the back panel , whereby the back face ribs  are fixed to the upper member .","Lower portions of the right and left back support  remain tilted backwards. Further, a rear plate  (see ) that is tilted when viewed sideways is welded to a back face of the second intermediate fixture . The back support  are welded to the rear plate  (see ). A horizontally oriented stopper  is welded to the right and left back support . Although unillustrated, the right and left back support  are joined together by means of a reinforcement member.","The back support  is placed one on either side of the pair of back support . The horizontally-long guide pin  is attached to upper ends of the right and left back support  by way of an upper bracket . The upper bracket  can also be welded or screwed to the back support .","As shown in , the guide body  is made up of sliders  that are made of a resin and in which the guide pin  is sandwiched between the front and back sliders , a front panel  affixed to the back support , and a case  fitted to the respective sliders  from behind. Recesses  for allowing vertical movements relative to the guide pin  are formed opposite each other in mating faces of the respective sliders . Window apertures  that fit to respective projections formed on the sliders  are formed in the front panel  and the case , respectively. The front and back sliders  are fitted to the case  while superimposed on each other. Further, the front panel  and the case  are fastened together with screws  while the projections of the front and back sliders  remain fitted into the front panel  and the case .","(10) Summary",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0169"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["4","4","71","71","4","4","3","3"],"i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0170"},"figref":["FIG. 29(A)","FIG. 29(B)"],"b":"3"},"The backrest , the second intermediate fixture , and the back support  can be conceived as a single structure. Accordingly, although the backrest  tilts by means of guiding actions of the second long holes  and the guide pin . However, the second long holes  remain in a horizontal position, and the guide body  moves in the vertical direction. Hence, the backrest  assumes the same state in which the backrest  turns (swings) around a phantom line as if a seat swing swings. In the present embodiment, as shown in , a phantom center line  used when the backrest  tilts (turns or swings) is situated in the vicinity of the upper surfaces of the respective arm pads .","The arm pads  move back and forth, and the phantom center  itself also moves along with the tilting action of the backrest . In any case, the phantom center  is set so as to be situated between a neighborhood of the upper surfaces of the arm pads  achieved when the arm pads  have fully moved forward and a neighborhood of upper surfaces of the arm pads  achieved when the arm pads  have fully moved backward. If the seated person has a common physical constitution, the phantom pivot center  of the backrest  is situated at a neighborhood of the front surface of an abdomen (particularly around a bully button) of the seated person. Moreover, when the seat  is taken as a reference, a phantom center  is set before or after a neighborhood of an intermediate point of the seat  in its front-back direction such that a height from the seat surface comes to about 20 to 30 cm.","In any case, the phantom center  of the tilting action of the backrest  is situated above the seat forward of the backrest . As a result, even when the chair rocks, the upper body of the seated person does not move backward in its entirety. For this reason, the chair does not move away from the top plate D of the desk even in the rocking state. As a consequence, the seated person can smoothly perform operation of a mouse \u201cm\u201d or operation of a keyboard K while remaining in a rocking state.","(11) Others","The respective embodiments are mere examples of the present invention. In addition to being embodied in the embodiments, the present invention can also be embodied in various manner. For instance, the seat-mounting shell is not necessarily required. The seat panel; for instance, can also be attached directly to the seat-mounting fixture (the intermediate fixtures).","The second section of the seat can also be deformed in a flexural manner in such a way that the rear end of the second section descends maximum. Further, the second section can also be subjected to stepwise flexure. Alternatively, there can also be adopted a configuration in which during rocking the first section moves forwards while slightly tilting forwards or in which the first section slightly tilts backwards and the second section tilts backwards at an angle larger than the tilt angle of the first section while the entirety of the seat is moving forwards. Various means, such as a gas cylinder and rubber, can be used as spring means that imparts resistance to rocking action.","When the arm rest devices are attached to the chair, the arm rest chairs can be affixed to the second intermediate fixture of the second embodiment or to the back support described in connection with both embodiments. The seat-mounting fixture and the intermediate fixtures can also be made of resin.","The present invention can exhibit usefulness when embodied in the form of a chair. Accordingly, the present invention can be industrially utilized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0001","num":"0179"},"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0002","num":"0180"},"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0003","num":"0181"},"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0004","num":"0182"},"b":"3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0005","num":"0183"},"b":"3","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0006","num":"0184"},"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0007","num":"0185"},"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0008","num":"0186"},"b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0009","num":"0187"},"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0010","num":"0188"},"b":"11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0011","num":"0189"},"b":"12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0012","num":"0190"},"b":"12","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0013","num":"0191"},"b":"12","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0014","num":"0192"},"b":"13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0015","num":"0193"},"b":"14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0016","num":"0194"},"b":"11","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0017","num":"0195"},"b":"11","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0018","num":"0196"},"b":"15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0019","num":"0197"},"b":"16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0020","num":"0198"},"b":"17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0021","num":"0199"},"b":"18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0022","num":"0200"},"b":"25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0023","num":"0201"},"b":"30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0024","num":"0202"},"b":["40","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0025","num":"0203"},"b":"43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0026","num":"0204"},"b":"45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0027","num":"0205"},"b":"69"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002-0028","num":"0206"},"b":"72"}]}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7(A)"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIGS. 24","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 27(A)"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIGS. 29"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
