---
title: Signal separator
abstract: A device for separating uncoordinated co-channel signals including a symbol detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08218692&OS=08218692&RS=08218692
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08218692
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091210
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention was made with Government support under contract No. F04701-00-C-0009 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a device and a process for separating digital signals embedded in a single received signal.","2. Discussion of the Related Art","Separating uncoordinated co-channel signals of comparable power from a single received signal impaired by one or more of intersymbol interference, mutual interference, and additive noise without the aid of matched filters or another traditional means of signal separation is a rare area of research and development. Techniques modifying transmitted signals to aid subsequent separation are the workhorses of modern day communications and it is their improvement that has dominated signal separation research and development.","The signal separation device and method of the present invention includes embodiments for separating uncoordinated co-channel signals of comparable power from a single received signal impaired by one or more of intersymbol interference, mutual interference, and additive noise.","In an embodiment, a method comprises the steps of: implementing an initial channel estimator, a blind maximum likelihood symbol detector, and a least squares channel estimator in one or more digital processors; converting the received signal in an analog to digital converter, the sample rate of the converter exceeding the symbol rate by a factor greater than or equal to two; utilizing the initial channel estimator to make an initial set of channel estimates from the converted received signal; producing a data block by decimating the converted received signal; detecting symbols from the data block in a multi-signal trellis of the blind maximum likelihood symbol detector using the most recent channel estimates; utilizing the least squares channel estimator to make another set of channel estimates from the detected symbols; returning to the detecting step if the channel estimates have not converged; comparing the trellis end survivors' metrics to determine if the detected symbols should be accepted; returning to the first utilizing step and revising the initial channel state information if the detected symbols are not accepted; and, accepting the detected symbols and returning to the producing step if data remains.","In an embodiment, first and second digitally modulated signals are simultaneously transmitted in overlapping frequency bands. Signals corresponding to the first and second signals are transported by a common transmission medium. The transported signals differ in at least one of carrier frequency, carrier phase, delay and impulse response, and are embedded in a signal received from the transmission medium. An analog to digital converter processes the received signal, the sample rate of the converter exceeding the symbol rate by a factor greater than or equal to two. An initial channel estimator is coupled to an output of the analog to digital converter for making an initial estimate of carrier frequency, carrier phase, delay, and impulse response of the first and second signal channels. A decimator is coupled to an output of the analog to digital converter and a block selector is coupled to an output of the decimator. A blind maximum likelihood detector utilizes first channel estimator and block selector outputs to detect symbol sequences corresponding to the first and second signals. A least squares channel estimator utilizes the detected symbol sequences to estimate the carrier phase, delay and impulse of the first and second signal channels. The detector and least squares channel estimator operates to iteratively estimate symbol sequences and channel state information until changes in one or more of carrier phase, delay, and impulse response indicate convergence. Where convergence is indicated, metrics available from the detector operative to indicate whether the detected bit sequences should be accepted, or rejected in favor of revising the initial channel state information and restarting iterative symbol detection and channel estimation.","The disclosure provided in the following pages describes selected embodiments of the invention. The designs, figures, and description are provided for the purpose of teaching a person of ordinary skill in the art, by way of example and not limitation, how to make and use the claimed invention. For example, other embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods may or may not include the features described herein. Moreover, disclosed advantages and benefits may apply to only certain embodiments of the invention and should not be used to limit the disclosed invention.","This application incorporates by reference U.S. Pat. No. 6,026,121 to Sadjadpour filed Jul. 25, 1997 for all purposes including the disclosure of columns - relating to utilization of least squares methods. This application incorporates by reference U.S. Pat. No. 6,910,177 to Cox filed Dec. 21, 2001 for all purposes including the disclosure of columns - relating to utilization of Viterbi algorithm methods and the disclosure of columns - relating to utilization of trellises. This application incorporates by reference U.S. Pat. No. 7,330,801 to Goldberg et al. filed Jul. 31, 2006 for all purposes including the disclosure of columns - relating to signal separation.","Included in the invention are a channel estimator and a detector for separating multiple signals from a single received signal. The channel estimator and detector are useful for, inter alia, separating uncoordinated co-channel signals of comparable power from a single received signal impaired by one or more of intersymbol interference, mutual interference, and additive noise.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","400","200","300","600","500"]},"Signals or information derived from the signal source  are passed to the initialization block from a signal source output  and one or more outputs  of the initialization block  are coupled for signal communication to the symbol detector . As used herein, passed means directly or indirectly transported via a suitable means known to persons of ordinary skill in the art such as by wired, wireless, optical and other known tangible and intangible transport means.","Symbols detected in the symbol detector  are passed to the second channel estimator from a symbol detector output . Channel estimates or information derived from the second channel estimator is then passed to the test block  from a second channel estimator output .","Symbols or information derived from the test block  are passed to the symbol detector  from a first output of the test block . Symbols or information derived from the test block  are also passed to the initializer block  from a second output  of the test block.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","200","202","204","1","212","2","214"]},"Signals  and  are transported using a common transmission means or medium  such as a wired, wireless, light conducting, and other known tangible or intangible media. A signal capture device  of the signal source such as a radio frequency receiver receives a single signal  that includes information from each of the transmitted signals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["30","1","2","212","214","222","224","225","227"],"sub":["0","0","1","2"]},"In the present invention plural signals of interest are embedded in the received signal  and it is differences between these signals that enable signal separation. In general, the signals are not required to be temporally aligned or in phase with each other; the carrier signal frequencies can differ within a range even though the frequency offset is not known at the signal capture device or receiver ; and, no matched filtering is assumed.","In an embodiment the nominal data rates are assumed known, but the actual data rates are estimated from the received data. In various embodiments, the embedded signals may overlap in time and\/or frequency and may be impaired by one or more of intersymbol interference (ISI), mutual interference, and additive noise.","The signal capture device  provides a digital representation (r, r, r, . . . ) of the received signal r(t) at an output . In various embodiments, the signal capture device includes one or more of an antenna, a down converter, an anti-aliasing filter, and an Analog-to-Digital (A\/D) Converter. For example, a device for capturing a satellite signal can include all of these components. In embodiments without matched filtering, oversampling is employed to compensate for the lack of a matched filter at the signal capture device . Oversampling makes the algorithm of second channel estimator  more robust to symbol-timing misalignments. Among other things, oversampling allows the capture of \u201csufficient statistics\u201d from the received signal and enables channel estimation without knowledge of the channel impulse response.","In some embodiments, A\/D converter sample rates are greater than two times the data rate. For example, embodiments sampling intermediate frequencies (IF) utilize sample rates in the range of two to ten times the data rate.","From the signal capture device, digital data (r, r, . . . r, . . . ) is passed to the initializer block  where an initial channel estimate is made and data is suitably formatted for the detector .","Channel estimation by an initial channel estimator  provides initial guesses for channel parameters  that will be used by the detector . For example, for the case of two channels with two taps each, a first estimate is =[1,0] and =[1,0], a second estimate is =[1,0] and =[0,1], a third estimate is =[0,1] and =[1,0], and a fourth estimate is =[0,1] and =[0,1]. In some embodiments, the initial condition can be given by two channel impulse responses with a single non-zero tap each. This will take care of h and \u03c4 (the delay being the position of the non-zero tap). As for \u03c6 and f, they will be estimated by the second channel estimator , unless prior information can be used; for instance, if this is not the first data block, a good initial estimate for \u03c6 and f are the values estimated in the previous block.","Data formatting provides a digital representation of the received signal r(t) suited for use by the detector. In an embodiment, data provided to the detector is formatted by a decimator  that decimates the data (r, r, r, . . . ). And, in some embodiments, the data is formatted into data blocks  for block detection, each data block corresponding to N symbols in the original signals , . As shown in , the decimated data is formatted into blocks suited for block detection algorithms. In other embodiments the data is formatted for symbol by symbol detection.","From the initialization block , the initial channel estimates and the data block are passed to a detector  for symbol detection. Detected symbols are passed to the second channel estimator  from an output of the detector .","Various symbol detection and channel estimation algorithms may be used. These include 1) joint maximum-likelihood (ML) channel estimation and block sequence detection procedure, 2) joint maximum-a-posteri (MAP) symbol-by-symbol detection with least mean square LMS or recursive least square (RLS) channel estimation and tracking, or 3) Viterbi sequence detection with per-survivor LMS or RLS channel estimation and tracking. In some embodiments, LMS and RLS techniques are used in conjunction with the second channel estimator . Here, the channel estimation operation cannot be neatly separated from the trellis ; each trellis state would have its own LMS\/RLS channel estimator, and the trellis  and second channel estimator  would work in synergy. In some embodiments, the second channel estimator  could be eliminated.","In an embodiment, an iterative joint maximum-likelihood (ML) channel estimation and block sequence detection procedure is used. Here, the detector's  states are augmented to include the memory of the two signals' channels (impulse responses) and the memory provided by the channel codes, if present. The second channel estimator  is used to provide the sequence detector with information about the symbol timing, phase offset, and generally the channel impulse responses experienced by the two incoming signals.","In particular, this embodiment includes a blind Viterbi detector  implementing a block maximum likelihood (ML) algorithm in the assumption that the received signal is buried in Gaussian noise. A trellis structure  in the Viterbi detector  combines the memory of the two signals, i.e., the two impulse responses as seen by the two signals and the redundancy due to the channel code, if present. In various embodiments, the detected symbols are made available from and\/or stored in the symbol detector .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"402"},"The exemplary trellis structure shown assumes there are two channels, h, h, and that they are known such that h=[h, h] and h=[h, h]. Here, the subscript x indicates the current value of the xchannel tap and the subscript x indicates the prior value of the xchannel tap.","The states at the left side of the trellis are possible values of the previously sent bits while the states at the right side of the trellis are the possible values of the currently received bits. As can be seen, the number of channels and channel taps per channel determines the structure of the trellis.","States of the trellis [s\/s] correspond to all of the values that two binary signals can take on; +1\/+1, +1\/\u22121, \u22121\/+1 and \u22121\/\u22121. The exemplary trellis slice of  therefore shows the possible values that two binary signals can take on at two different times k=0 and k=1, each time being indicated by a vertical column of possible states.","Branches from one trellis column (time k=0) to the next (time k=1) are associated with received bits [b, b]. In this case, a transition from a particular prior state to a current state can occur along any of four trellis branches depending on the bits received. An expected output is associated with each branch and is a function the current state [S, s], the received bits\/incoming symbols [b, b], and the channels [h, h]: Expected Output=sh+sh+bh+bh.","For example, from state +1\/+1 there are four possible transitions or branches given four possible sets of incoming symbols. In each case, there is an expected output as shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Incoming",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Symbols","Expected Output"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"+1\/+1","h+ h+ h+ h"]},{"entry":[{},"+1\/\u22121","h+ h+ h\u2212 h"]},{"entry":[{},"\u22121\/+1","h+ h\u2212 h+ h"]},{"entry":[{},"\u22121\/\u22121","h+ h\u2212 h\u2212 h"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Because all of the possible combinations of two binary signals (+1\/+1, +1\/\u22121, \u22121\/+1 and \u22121\/\u22121) are represented in each trellis column, a trellis having a depth (number of columns) equal to one plus the number of symbol pairs received can represent every possible sequence received. The paths along interconnected trellis branches identify unique symbol sequences.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"sub":["1","2"]},"Because the trellis incorporates every possible sequence of symbols, detection requires identifying a particular path through the trellis corresponding to the received sequence.  shows the most probable path through the trellis as +1\/+1, +1\/\u22121, \u22121\/\u22121, \u22121\/\u22121, +1\/\u22121 given the channel estimates h, hand the received sequence y(t).","Any suitable probability method known to persons of ordinary skill in the art may be used to identify the most likely trellis path. In some embodiments, trellis path probabilities are identified where each possible path has a path metric equal to the sum of the metrics for each branch in the path. And, in an embodiment branch metrics are based on a negative log-likelihood function (assuming, for example, AWGN), such that smaller values of the metric indicate higher probabilities. Here, it follows that the path through the trellis with the smallest path metric identifies the most probable path and thus the symbols most likely received at the signal capture device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"60","sub":["k","k-1"]},"As shown in the figure, each departing state  has four departing branches  extending to four different arriving states . In similar fashion, each arriving state  has four arriving branches  extending from four different departing states . Shown between the departing and arriving states are exemplary expected outputs and metrics at the arriving state.","Not all of the sixteen arriving branches need to be carried forward. Rather, including only the branch with the lowest valued metric at each state is sufficient to discover the most probable path through the trellis. Such branches are commonly termed \u201csurvivors\u201d and as seen in this example they have values of 0.32, 0.0004, 0.33 and 1.90 (see boxes). As persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, this follows from the Viterbi algorithm: because positive metrics add as one proceeds in the trellis, any path that goes through state +1\/+1 (See  in ) would have an accumulated metric no smaller than the one that at time k=1 has metric 0.032, therefore the three paths that have higher metrics at time k=1 can be safely dropped as they have no chance of surviving.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 6"]},"At time k=2, the metrics are calculated for each possible branch from each survivor at time k=1 (in this example, 4*4 or 16 metrics are calculated for each received value). For example, 0.0324 is the value of the survivor corresponding to state +1\/+1 at time k=1 and its possible new branches are to states +1\/+1, +1\/\u22121, \u22121\/+1, and \u22121\/\u22121 at time k=2. As seen in , the metrics for these new branches are 4.9165, 2.0205, 0.0765 and 0.3805.","Trellis calculations proceed in similar fashion until a trellis end is reached. As can be seen in , the trellis end survivors at time k=4 are 0.1378, 0.0018, 1.4898 and 2.9938.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 7C","b":["70","1","2"]},"Symbols detected by the detector are passed to the second channel estimator  where a channel estimate (\u03c6, \u03c4, h, f) for each channel is produced . In an embodiment, the channel is estimated by a least squares (LMS) estimator, itself a maximum likelihood estimator in the Gaussian noise assumption. Sequence detection and channel estimation are iterated and tested as described below.","Referring again to , a channel convergence tester  of the test block  monitors channel estimates  for convergence of the estimates made for each channel. If one or both channels fail the convergence test, another iteration is performed where the last channel estimates  are passed to the detector and the same block of data is processed again, along with the updated channel estimates.","For example, this test can be given by the comparison of the estimated channel impulse response (inclusive of delay, phase, and frequency) at the current time and the one at the previous time. If there has been no appreciable change (e.g., norm of the difference is less than a user-defined threshold), then convergence has been reached.","Suitable channel convergence tests include those known to persons of ordinary skill in the art and in particular include convergence tests based on differences between successive estimates of a) one or more channel parameters or b) combinations of two or more channel parameters. For example, in an embodiment, the norm or two-norm of the difference of successive channel impulse responses indicates convergence when it falls below a threshold value. And, in some embodiments the threshold is based on an estimated (or expected) value of the signals' amplitudes so exact knowledge of the signals ,  is not required.","If the estimates for each channel have converged, a symbol sequence tester  of the test block  operates to test the goodness of the symbol detection.","The goodness of the symbol detection may be assessed using any means known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. For example, in various embodiments trellis metrics are passed  to the symbol sequence tester  from a detector trellis output . And, in some embodiments the symbol sequence tester evaluates the goodness of the symbol detection by comparing the trellis end survivors' metrics. In an embodiment, the symbol sequence detector looks at the survivors' metrics to determine if there is a clear winner.","In an embodiment, the symbol detection is accepted if the smallest trellis end survivor, the one representing the winning path, differs from other trellis end survivors by a factor greater than \u201cr\u201d. The factor \u201cr\u201d is user-defined and frequently lies in a range of about 2 to 10. In some embodiments, the factor \u201cr\u201d may be in a broader range of about 2 to 20. For example, in the above exemplary trellis the winning path metric is 0.0018; as compared with the next closest trellis end survivor, 0.14, these values differ by a factor greater than 70. In this case, the goodness of the symbol detection is proved and the symbols would be accepted.","Where the goodness of the symbol detection is shown by trellis metrics  or otherwise, the detected symbols are accepted and control returns to the initialization block . In the initialization block, another block of data  is formatted and passed to symbol detector  where the iterative process starts again using the most recent channel estimates from the second channel estimator . In some embodiments accepted symbols are passed to a symbol memory device  via an output  of the symbol detector .","As persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize, some or all of the functions of the initializer block , symbol detector , second channel estimator , and test block  can be implemented in one or more software controlled devices. Such devices include one or more of digital processors, digital signal processors, integrated circuits, computers, and field programmable gate arrays including general or special purpose versions of any of these devices.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes in the form and details can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. As such, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is described with reference to the accompanying figures. These figures, incorporated herein and forming part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, further serve to explain the principles of the invention and to enable a person skilled in the relevant art to make and use the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
