---
title: Method and apparatus for displaying
abstract: Aspects of the disclosure provide a display system. The display system can include a display module having a configurable optical characteristic that varies from substantially transmissive to substantially reflective, at least one data capturing device configured to capture data to form a display image, and at least a first projector configured to project the display image to the display module. Therefore, the display image can be overlaid with a real image according to an optical configuration of the display module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08436788&OS=08436788&RS=08436788
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08436788
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090108
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/006,365, \u201cModular Helmet Integrated with Visor and Mountable Devices\u201d filed on Jan. 8, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","Helmets having audio and visual communication capabilities are available, and are usually designed for a particular usage. For example, helmets with an opaque, reflective visor have been developed for use by pilots of aircraft, such as military jets. Video imaging, such as guidance imaging, night imaging and object tracking, are displayed on the inner surface of the opaque visor to be viewable by the pilot for controlling operations of the aircraft. In addition, the data and voice communication components of the helmet are statically linked to communication infrastructures inside the aircraft. Therefore, the helmet is not suited for modular or dismounted uses in which the individual wearing the helmet desires to see outside the helmet and\/or dismount from the aircraft. The costs of such helmets also are impractically expensive for modular and dismounted uses.","Helmets have also been equipped with thermal and night vision (NV) sensors for dismounted use, such as the Rockwell Collins version. However, these existing helmets equipped with thermal and NV sensors rely on the legacy monocular single color display in which the wearer of the helmet views a surrounding area via the sensors through only one eye. Accordingly, the wearer of the helmet does not visually perceive images captured by the thermal and\/or NV sensors with both eyes. In addition, the thermal and NV sensors add an uncomfortable weight of approximately five pounds or more to the helmet, and can therefore be cumbersomely large.","Aspects of the disclosure can provide a display system. The display system can include a display module having a configurable optical characteristic that varies from substantially transmissive to substantially reflective, at least one data capturing device configured to capture data to form a display image, and at least a first projector configured to project the display image to the display module. Therefore, the display image can be overlaid with a real image according to an optical configuration of the display module. For example, when the display module is substantially transmissive, the real image can be clearly viewed. When the display module is substantially reflective, the display image can be clearly viewed. When the display module is partially transmissive and partially reflective, the real image and the display image can be overlapped and viewed.","According to an embodiment of the disclosure, the display module can include a waveguide holographic display. Further, the display module can include a first portion and a second portion that can be configured to have different optical characteristics. The waveguide holographic display can be configured by a waveguide beam according to a mask. The waveguide beam can be provided by the first projector.","According to the disclosure, the at least one data capturing device can include at least one of a video camera, a night vision camera and a thermal vision camera. The display system may include a power supply configured to switchably supply power to the display system.","According to an embodiment of the disclosure, the display system may include a second projector configured to project a different display image.","The display system may be integrated into various devices and used for various applications. Such devices can include, but are not limited to, helmets, windshields, windows, glasses, visors, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","120","130"]},"The display module  can be a device that can operate in a transparent mode, an opaque mode, and at varying states of transparency in between. For example, the display module  can enable an observer to see through and view a scenery image of surroundings. In addition, the display module  can enable a display image that is viewable by the observer, while still permitting the observer to view the scenery image of surroundings. In such a mode, the display image is based on visual data from the visual data source module , and that is overlapped with the scenery image. Thus, the observer can view both the scenery image and the display image at the same time.","In an embodiment, the display module  can be a holographic waveguide module. The holographic waveguide module may include a waveguide layer that may change the transparency of the holographic waveguide module with regard to, for example power level, phase, polarization, and the like, of a waveguide beam. For example, when a power level of the waveguide beam is larger than a threshold, the holographic waveguide module can be reflective, and can display a projected image. On the other hand, when the power level of the waveguide beam is smaller than a threshold, the holographic waveguide module can be transparent, and allow a viewer to see through the holographic waveguide module.","In another embodiment, the display module  may be a transparent organic light emitting diode (TOLED) module. The TOLED module can allow a viewer to see through the TOLED and can emit a display image.","The visual data source  can generate a display image for displaying on the display module . The display image can include visual data from data capturing devices, such as a video camera, a night vision camera sensor, an infrared (IR) illuminator, a laser illuminator, a thermal vision camera sensor, and the like. In addition, the display image may include analysis data, such as real time analysis data, based on the data from the data capturing devices.","The display image can be overlapped with the scenery image of surroundings on the display module . In an embodiment, the display system  may include a projector module to project the display image on the display module . In another embodiment, the display module  may include light emitting devices to emit light to form the display image.","The controller module  may control the display module  and the visual data source module  to obtain a desired image for an observer to view via the display system . The controller module  may configure an operation mode of the display system , such as a night mode, a see-through mode, an overlapping mode, and the like. In an embodiment, the controller module  and the visual data source module  may be integrated in a control and data system.","During operation, the controller module  may provide control signals to the visual data source module  and the display module . The control signals may configure the display system  in an operation mode. For example, the control signals may configure the display system  in the see-through mode, such that the observer can only view the scenery image. Alternatively, the control signals may configure the display system  in the night mode, or the overlapping mode.","The display system  can be integrated into various devices and used for many applications. For example, as described above, the display system  can be integrated into a helmet, such as a combat helmet, that can provide a user with data that can be combined with real world views. Likewise, the display system  can be integrated into a pair of glasses to provide similar functionality to a user. In short, the display system  can be integrated into any device where a user's real world views can be supplemented by overlaid data. Such devices can include, but are not limited to, helmets, windshields, windows, glasses, visors, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","240","210","220","220","250","230","200"]},"The helmet  can be used in a mounted or a dismounted configuration. The helmet body  can be an existing helmet body, such as those of ground soldiers and\/or first responders, for example. The helmet body  can also be equipped with a mandible armor  configured to protect at least one of a lower surface of the face and the neck of a wearer of the helmet . The mandible armor  can also include a microphone (not shown) configured to receive audible outputs of the wearer of the helmet . Further, the helmet  may include a communication module (not shown), which can be integrated with other elements or individually mounted on the helmet . The communication module can be configured to transmit the audible outputs received by the microphone to an external reception device.","The visor  can be rotatably mounted to a lower surface of the helmet so as to cover both eyes of the wearer of the helmet while rotated into a down position. Alternatively, the visor  can also be detached from the helmet as desired. The visor  can generally have a spherical shape, as shown in , for example.","The visor  can be transparent to the wearer of the helmet , thus the wearer of the helmet can freely wear the helmet and not have their vision obscured. The visor  also provides eye protection to the wearer. In addition, the visor  can have a reflective inner surface. The reflective inner surface of the visor  can face the wearer of the helmet , and can be configured to have a display image projected thereon by at least one projector. Accordingly, the reflective inner surface of the visor is reflective to the display image projected by the at least one projector.","As described above, the visor  can operate in a transparent mode, an opaque mode, and at varying modes in between. For example, in a transparent mode, the wearer of the helmet may be looking at a barren landscape, which the wearer must traverse to get to an objective destination. To assist the wearer, the visor  can superimpose navigational data over the view of the landscape. At a simple level, the visor  may simply provide textual instruction to the wearer, such as \u201cproceed north-east two miles.\u201d In a more sophisticated embodiment, the visor can superimpose graphical instruction, such as a highlighted path over the view of the landscape, such that the wearer should follow to reach their destination.","In an opaque mode, the wearer would only be able to view the data being displayed on the visor , as the external real world view would be blocked out. Such a mode can be useful when the wearer is in a secure location, and wants to communicate with others or view information. Because the image viewed by the wearer will not include the real world view, data can be presented to the wearer without the possible distortion from the external real world views.","For various reasons, such as external lighting conditions, it can be necessary to vary the visor  between transparent and opaque modes. For example, in exceptionally bright light conditions, in order for the wearer to clearly view the superimposed data displayed in the visor , the visor  may need to operate in more of an opaque mode, as opposed to when the visor is being used in a low light condition. The mode of the visor  can be manually adjusted by the wearer, as well as automatically adjusted by a controller, such as the power and control unit .","The power and control unit  can be mounted on the helmet  and electrically connected to the other devices via the wear-net. The power and control unit  can transmit control signals to configure and control the other devices. In addition, the power and control unit  may include a battery power supply to support the operation of the other devices. Further, the power and control unit  may include switches that can be operated by a wearer of the helmet . For example, the wearer of the helmet  can operate the switches to selectively power on or off the other devices.","The plurality of assembly devices L, R, and  can be mounted on an outer surface, such as side surface, top surface, and the like, of the helmet . In this embodiment, the plurality of assembly devices L, R, and  can be mounted by means of a rail mount that is integrally mounted onto the outer surface of the helmet . For example, the rail mount can be a one-inch rail mount onto which the assembly devices can be detachably mounted. Since the surface of the helmet  may be curved, the rail mount can be mounted onto an adaptive mounting platform that accommodates the curved surface of the helmet. The adaptive mounting platform in turn can accommodate the substantially flat mounting surface of the rail mount. It should be understood that any suitable permanent or detachable mounting platforms can be incorporated as long as the assembly devices can be reliably mounted to the helmet .","The plurality of assembly devices L, R and  may include various data capturing devices, a system processor, and one or more projection devices. The various data capturing devices can include a video camera, a night vision camera sensor, an infrared (IR) illuminator, a laser illuminator, a thermal vision camera sensor, and the like. The data capturing devices can capture data and output the captured data to a system processor.","In an embodiment, the helmet  may include a video camera, which can be used to capture images outside of viewing angles of the wearer. In another embodiment, the helmet  may include a thermal vision camera sensor, which can be used to detect concealed objects.","In another embodiment, the helmet  may include an infrared or laser illuminator mounted on the helmet . The infrared or laser illuminator can be configured to illuminate an infrared\/laser signal onto an object. In addition, the system processor can generate an icon representing an area on which the infrared signal is illuminated, and output an icon image. The icon image can be projected to the visor  to be overlapped with the visual image by the projection devices.","In another embodiment, the helmet  may include a global positioning reception device mounted onto an outer surface of the helmet . The global positioning reception device can be configured to receive global positioning data corresponding to a location of the helmet . The system processor can be configured to generate global positioning coordinates based on the global positioning data received by the global positioning reception device, and output the generated global positioning coordinates to one or more of the projection devices, which are in turn configured to overlay the global positioning coordinates onto the display image projected onto the visor .","The system processor can receive captured data from the plurality of data capture devices, process the captured data, and generate data for a display image. The data for the display image can be provided to the projection devices to project on the visor . In addition, the system processor may transmit data to an external reception device via a communication unit. For example, the external reception device can be a distant base station or control center, and\/or another individual having an appropriate communication device.","The projection devices can be configured to receive the data for the display image from the system processor and project the display image onto the visor . The projection devices may include various optical elements to direct, correct, and focus the display image onto the visor .","In the example of , the assembly device mounted on one side of the helmet can include a night vision sensor camera, an IR illuminator, and a thermal vision sensor camera, for example. The other side of the helmet can have similar assembly device mounted thereon. In this case, the data capturing devices mounted on both sides of the helmet can collect respective data, and transmit their respective collected data to the system processor, which can in turn transmit the data, in real-time, to the projection devices mounted on the inner surface of the helmet. In this example, the projection device mounted on the right side of the helmet will project the data captured by the data capturing devices mounted on the right side of the helmet, while the projection device mounted on the left side of the helmet will project the data captured by the data capturing devices mounted on the left side of the helmet. Accordingly, it is possible that two different projection devices could project two different display images on left and right sides of the reflective inner surface of the visor . For example, the projection device mounted on the left side of the helmet could project a thermal display image captured by a thermal vision sensor camera, while the projection device mounted on the right side of the helmet could project a night vision display image captured by a night vision sensor camera. Alternatively, two projection devices mounted in the helmet  could project halves of the display image projected onto the reflective inner surface of the visor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","330","335","340","350","360"]},"The scenery background  can be a scenery image through a display module, such as the visor . The external video feed display , the infrared targeting indicator , the fire indicator , the compass orientation display , the communication channel display  and the date-time display  can form a display image that can be projected to a reflective surface of the visor , such that the display image and the scenery image can be overlaid, and can be viewed by an observer at the same time.","The display image and the scenery image can be overlaid according to position information of the visor , such as location, orientation, height, angle and the like. The position information may be detected by various sensors, or may be received from a remote source.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","410","430","440","450","400"]},"In the example of , the plurality of data capturing devices  and  may include a thermal camera subsystem  and a night vision subsystem . The thermal camera subsystem  may include a left thermal camera and a right thermal camera. The nigh vision subsystem  may include a left night vision camera and a right night vision camera. The plurality of data capturing device  and  may provide captured data, such as video data to the system processor , and may receive control and power signals from the system processor .","The system processor  can maintain the system and perform data operations. The system processor  may further include a general processing module , a video routing module , a graphic generation module , a video and graphic overlap module , a location (GPS) module , a heading (digital compass) module , a power source and regulation module , a control interface module , a status indicator module , a wireless interface module , and a user interface module .","The general processing module  can perform general system maintenance and data operation, such as file system management, interrupt handling, and the like. The video routing module  may enable and control data to be transmitted from one module to another module. The graphic generation module  can be responsible for generating graphic data corresponding to information to be displayed. For example, the graphic generation module  may generate icons for information indicators.","The video and graphic overlap module  can be responsible for overlapping video and graphics from multiple modules. The location (GPS) module  may be responsible for determining coordinates from data received from a global position reception device. The heading (digital compass) module  may be responsible for indicating heading directions. The power source and regulation module  may be responsible for managing a power source, such as indicating power level, determining power distributions, and the like.","The control interface  may be responsible for outputting control signals to the data capturing devices  and  and light engine . The status indicator module  may generate signals to, for example LED indicators, for indicating status of the system. The wireless interface module  may be responsible for wireless communication with other system. The user interface module  may be responsible for receiving control information from a wearer or a maintaining engineer.","It is noted that the various modules can be implemented as software modules that can be executed by a processor, or can be implemented as hardware modules, such as application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), or can be implemented as a combination of hardware and software. It is also noted that the various modules may be integrated in a chip, or a processing board. Alternatively, the various modules may be distributed in multiple chips or multiple processing boards.","The light engine subsystem  may include a left light engine and a right light engine. The light engine subsystem  may receive data for a display image from the system processor , and may emit light and project the display image to a display module.","Additionally, the data processing system  may include an input and output (I\/O) interface that can receive video data from an external video source , and output video data to an external video sink .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","520"]},"In step S, the display system can be configured mechanically. For example, a helmet wearer may mount or dismount one or more devices, such as a thermal camera, a nigh vision camera, a global positioning reception device, and the like, to a helmet. Then, the process proceeds to step S.","In step S, the display system can be powered up. In an embodiment, the display system may include a battery power supply that can be manually switched on to provide electrical power to the various devices. In another embodiment, the display system may include a first battery power supply and a second battery power supply. The first battery power supply can be a main battery power supply that can provide electrical power to the display system during operation. The second battery power supply can be a back-up power supply that can provide electrical power to a portion of the display system, such as a monitoring portion. The monitoring portion may monitor activities on the display system, such as plug-in a device, removal of a device, being worn, and the like, and may control the battery power supply based on the monitored activity. For example, when a helmet is not worn, the first battery power supply can be switched off, and when the helmet is worn on a wearer, the first battery power supply can be switched on. Then, the process proceeds to step S.","In step S, the display system can be configured electrically. For example, the helmet wearer may configure the display system, which is integrated on the helmet, via a user interface into an operation mode, such as a night mode, a transparent mode, an overlapping mode, and the like. Then, the display system can operate accordingly. The process proceeds to step S, and terminates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["410","620","610","650"]},"Additionally, according to an embodiment of the disclosure, the system processor may generate a mask , such as a transparency mask or an alpha mask, based on the display image . The mask  can be used to block transparency on portions of the display module. For example, the mask can be used to determine power levels of a waveguide beam for masked portions and non-masked portions of a holographic waveguide module.","Further, the display image , the mask  can be projected to a display module, such as the visor . The mask  may result in opaque regions at masked portions of the display module, thus an observer can view the display image  at the masked portions. In addition, the non-masked portion can be transparent, and the observer can view the background through the non-masked portion. Therefore, the observer can view the display image and the background image at the same time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","710","720","730","740"]},"The projector  and the projector processing board  can be electrically coupled together. The projector  may project a display image to a display module. The projector processing board  can provide data for the display image.","The thermal sensor  and the thermal imaging processing board  can be electrically coupled together. The thermal sensor  may generate signals corresponding to thermal characteristics of surroundings. The signals can be provided to the thermal imaging processing board  to generate a thermal image of surroundings. The thermal image can be provided to the projector processing board  to be projected on the display module.","In an embodiment, two bracket assemblies  may be mounted in a display system, such as L and  R in . It is noted that the bracket assembly  may include other suitable devices, such as a night vision camera, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","800","810","820","830","850"]},"The waveguide holographic display  may include a waveguide portion , and a display portion -. The display portion - may further include a holographic image portion , and a real world view portion . The waveguide portion  can vary optical characteristics, such as transmissive characteristic, reflective characteristic, and the like, of the display portion -. In an embodiment, the waveguide portion  can respectively vary the optical characteristics of the holographic image portion  and the real world view portion . In another embodiment, the waveguide portion  can vary the optical characteristics of the display portion - altogether.","The optical characteristics may be varied according to a waveguide beam. The waveguide beam can be provided by the projector light source  and the projector lens set . Additionally, the projector light source  and the projector lens set  may direct a display image to the waveguide holographic display . In an embodiment, the projector-display system  can be configured as a front projection system. In another embodiment, the projector-display system  can be configured as a rear projection system.","The controller  may include an image processing module that can provide image data for the projector light source  and the projector lens set  to project the display image. In addition, the controller  may include a control module that can control the projector light source  and the projector lens set  to generate an appropriate waveguide beam to vary the optical characteristics of the waveguide holographic display . Accordingly, a display image and a real world view can be observed by an observer at position .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","410","900","910","920","930","940","950","960","970","980"]},"According to the disclosure, the total video processor system  may consume a reduced power, for example less than 10 W, while running at full load, and can display multiple simultaneous video inputs in real-time, such as 30 fps, without any noticeable latency.","The PC104+ stack  can provide a common backplane for multiple electronics to power up and communicate. The PC104+ stack  may include a central processing unit (CPU) card, such as Advanced Micro Peripherals Micro886, which features Transmeta 800 Mhz x86 processor for full Desktop application compatibility. The CPU card may include various ports, such as integrated drive electronics (IDE), universal serial bus (USB), PS\/2 keyboard, PS\/2 mouse, 2x RS232, parallel port, and the like.","Further, the PC104+ stack  can include a plurality of video annotation controller cards, such as Advanced MicroPeripherals VAC-104+. Each video annotation controller card can drive an output display, for example in both video graphics adapter (VGA) and national television standards committee (NTSC) output formats. Each card can also provide two separate decoders for real-time NTSC video input decoding over 4 channels each. The video annotation controller cards can also provide an application programming interface (API), such as C language API, for managing the hardware accelerating video processing and windowing.","In addition, the PC104+ stack  may include a moving picture experts group (MPEG) encoding card, such as Advanced MicroPeripherals MPEG4000. The MPEG encoding card can enable hardware encoding of video inputs for portable recording and low-bandwidth transmission of video.","The PC104+ stack  may also include a DC power regulation card, such as HE+104, which can regulate battery power to, for example, all required voltages in the system, and a bridge board adapter, such as Advance Microperipherals BridgeBoard2000, which can allow for changing the form factor of a stack to a wider and shorter configuration and providing a slot for compact flash to IDE adapter.","The power distribution and over current protection unit  can provide an interface for external power input for battery charging and regulated power distribution via a fused distribution panel to, for example, all system components requiring regulated power.","The power and battery management unit  can manage the charging of lithium-ion batteries and to supply power from them. For example, the power and battery management unit  can supply power evenly to the system without dangerous uneven discharge which leads to a runaway condition that can lead to catastrophic battery failure.","The heat dissipation unit  can include mechanisms to conduct and dissipate heat. For example, the heat dissipation unit  may include an all aluminum enclosure for heat conduction and dissipation to the atmosphere. In addition, the heat dissipation unit  may include a plurality of fans to provide airflow out of the enclosure to prevent hot air from being trapped within the confines of the system.","The dead reckoning sensor unit , such as DRM4000 from Honeywell, can provide precision inertial sensing and precise global position when connected to a GPS sensor. The lithium ion battery  can provide electrical power to the system.","The video input\/output interface board  and the sensor interface board  can be described with regard to embodiments shown in  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1030","1031","1032","1033","1034","1035","1036","1037","1038","1030"]},"The video card interfaces  and  can provide connectors for the video annotation controller cards. The NTSC video input interface  and output interface  can provide connectors, such as BNC connectors, for NTSC video inputs and outputs. The VGA output interface  can provide VGA interface to the video annotation controllers. The PS\/2 interface can provide connection to a keyboard and a mouse.","The video  interface board  can also provide routings as shown in , between the various interfaces. For example, the video IO interface board can route all video inputs to the MPEG encoding board. Thus, the NTSC video outputs can be routed back to the MPEG encoding board for recording, and can be used for future reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1140","1148","1144","1149","1145","1140","1140","1146","1147"]},"While the invention has been described in conjunction with the specific exemplary embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, exemplary embodiments of the invention as set forth herein are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. There are changes that may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of this disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the following figures, wherein like numerals reference like elements, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
