---
title: Secondary status display for mobile device
abstract: A secondary display system on a mobile device to allow a user to check the status of mobile device services without having to turn on or otherwise rely upon the primary display of the mobile device. The secondary display presents a count of messages that are waiting to be accessed by the mobile device user. When a new message is received for the user, a summary of the message is displayed to the mobile device user. When a user accesses one of the waiting messages, the count of unopened messages is decremented. The secondary display system may perform queue management to ensure that only counts of recently received messages are displayed. The secondary display system may offer different status modes to highlight the status of different mobile device services or states. The secondary display system may also allow a user to respond to a received message in a limited manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08023975&OS=08023975&RS=08023975
owner: T-Mobile USA, Inc.
number: 08023975
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090323
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/409,469, entitled \u201cMULTIFUNCTION MOBILE DEVICE HAVING A MOVABLE ELEMENT, SUCH AS A DISPLAY, AND ASSOCIATED FUNCTIONS\u201d.","Users of mobile devices, such as cell phones, smart phones, personal digital assistants, portable media players, and portable gaming devices, have an increasing number of options to communicate with other users. For example, users may communicate with other users via email, instant messaging, SMS and MMS messaging, and via voice and\/or video. Moreover, users increasingly have a number of social networking services that they may use to communicate with other users, such as by sending messages to other users via Facebook, mySpace, Orkut, and Twitter. The vast number of channels that users now have to communicate with other users has greatly expanded the use and enjoyment of mobile devices to stay in touch with friends, families, and colleagues.","While the proliferation of communication channels has provided great benefits to mobile device users, the number of channels has come at a price. Users are now inundated with messages from other users. For example, a user may receive voicemails from families, emails from work colleagues, instant messaging requests from friends, pokes on their Facebook profile, and the like. Learning of and accessing each of these messages requires a user to utilize different applications or different capabilities on their mobile device. For example, the user may be required to call a voicemail system in order to determine the number and identity of voicemails that were left for the user, use a browser application to log-on to a Facebook profile and see what messages are waiting to be read, and access an SMS or MMS messaging application to see what messages are waiting for review. Accessing other communication channels may involve even more onerous steps. Checking the status of each of these communication channels can be time consuming and extremely frustrating to users. The need therefore exists for a system that overcomes these problems, progresses the state of the art, and provides additional benefits.","A secondary display system on a mobile device to allow a device user to check the status of mobile device services or states without having to turn on or otherwise rely upon the primary display of the mobile device is disclosed herein. In some embodiments, the secondary display is used to present a count of messages that are waiting to be accessed by the mobile device user. Messages for which counts are presented to a user may include email messages, voicemail messages, SMS messages, MMS messages, social networking messages, and other messages. The secondary display provides a count of each type of message that is queued and waiting to be accessed by the user. When a new message is received for the user, a summary of the message is displayed to the mobile device user. The message summary may include the contents of a regarding (i.e., \u201cre:\u201d) line, the first line of the message, an indication of the sender that left the message, a time the message was received, and other similar information. When a user accesses one of the waiting messages, the count of unopened messages that is displayed to the user is decremented. By displaying message summaries to a user as well as a count of messages waiting for the user, the user is able to quickly determine whether a message or queue of messages warrants the user taking time to check the message using the primary display of the mobile device.","In some embodiments, the secondary display system performs queue management to ensure that the secondary display only displays counts of recently received messages. Old messages that have not been opened for a threshold period of time may be removed from the count so that the count only reflects those messages that were recently received.","In some embodiments, the secondary display system offers different status modes to the user to highlight the status of different mobile device services or states. For example, in addition to the previously mentioned messaging status mode, the secondary display may also operate in a social networking status mode to reflect a status of changes to a user's social networks, in a location status mode to reflect people or places that are in proximity to the user, in a signal mode to display the status of the mobile device battery and current signal strength, and in a clock mode to allow the user to view the time and to set an alarm. Other modes may of course be added that are tied to particular device services or features that are beneficial to the user.","In some embodiments, the secondary display system may allow a user to respond to a received message in a limited and pre-defined manner. For example, in response to seeing the arrival of a message from a friend, the user may be allowed to respond \u201cyes,\u201d \u201cno,\u201d or \u201cI'll call you soon.\u201d By enabling the user to quickly respond to an incoming message using a limited response set, the secondary display facilitates the user's management of incoming communications.","The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of, and enabling description for, various examples of the technology. One skilled in the art will understand that the technology may be practiced without many of these details. In some instances, well-known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the examples of the technology. It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner, even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain examples of the technology. Although certain terms may be emphasized below, any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["100","105","110","100","105","105"]},"The secondary display system includes two or more controls that are used to interact with the display  and information depicted on the display. For example, the depicted mobile device  contains four buttons -that enable a user to select device features, display modes, or otherwise interact with information that is presented on the display. The buttons may be back-lit or contain other illumination to allow a user to easily identify the buttons in low-light conditions. The buttons are located adjacent to the secondary display , such that each button corresponds to a different region of the secondary display. That is, button is adjacent a region of the secondary display, button is adjacent a region , button is adjacent a region , and button is adjacent a region . By placing the buttons adjacent to the display, the buttons may be used to cause the mobile device to implement a function or enter a mode that is reflected by an icon, graphic, word, or characters that is displayed in the corresponding region adjacent each button. For example, the selection of button may cause the mobile device to implement a function or enter a mode that is displayed to the user in region . As another example, the selection of button may cause the mobile device to implement a function or enter a mode that is displayed to the user in region . As will be described in additional detail herein, the implemented functions or entered modes may be varied depending on the current mode of the mobile device. While four buttons -are depicted in , it will be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of buttons may be added to the mobile device, and that the buttons may be placed above, below, and\/or to either side of the display.","The primary display  is larger than the secondary display and is the primary visual interface used by the user when utilizing the mobile device. The primary display may be a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic light emitting diode (OLED) display, an E-ink display, or other display suitable for a mobile device operating on battery power. In some embodiments, the primary display  may be movable with respect to the secondary display. A moveable primary display is provided in assignee's concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/409,433 entitled, \u201cMOBILE DEVICE HAVING A MOVABLE DISPLAY AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS\u201d and further described in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/409,469, entitled \u201cMULTIFUNCTION MOBILE DEVICE HAVING A MOVABLE ELEMENT, SUCH AS A DISPLAY, AND ASSOCIATED FUNCTIONS\u201d, which are both hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Both the primary display and the secondary display may be touchscreens to facilitate user interaction with the device. When the secondary display is implemented as a touchscreen, the buttons -may be omitted and the function of the buttons implemented using the touchscreen instead.","In addition to the buttons associated with the secondary display, the mobile device  typically includes one or more other controls that are associated with device operation. Such controls may include buttons  that are associated with commonly-used device features, a miniature trackball  that is used to navigate menus or manipulate a cursor that is displayed on the primary display, a QWERTY or reduced-key keyboard (not shown), and other input components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","105","110","115","115"],"i":["a","d ","a","d "]},"The primary display  may be powered on at the same time as the secondary display , or the primary and secondary displays may be operated in a manner where only one display is powered on at a time. One advantage of a secondary display in a mobile device is that a user can check status and receive instant or approximately instant notification of incoming messages via the secondary display  without having to power on the primary display . Keeping the primary display  off can significantly reduce the power consumption of the mobile device  and, accordingly, increase the battery life of the device. Moreover, the user can still receive a constant stream of timely information via the secondary display .","Although the mobile device depicted in  depicts a particular configuration of mobile device, the secondary display disclosed herein may be used in any mobile device configuration. For example, the secondary display may be used in a mobile device having a clamshell configuration, a configuration wherein one portion of the mobile device pivots, slides, or expands with respect to another portion of the mobile device, a configuration where the primary display encompasses most of one side of a mobile device, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","105","110","200","205","210","210","205","205"]},"Users may interact with the mobile device  in a number of ways. Primary display buttons  allow the user to initiate common device features. Secondary display buttons  allow the user to change display modes and interact with information that is displayed on the secondary display. Other input components  may be included in the mobile device, such as a QWERTY keypad, a reduced keypad (e.g., a numeric keypad), a touchscreen, a track ball or track pad, a voice recognition system, or the like, to allow a user to enter data or commands into the mobile device. Other output components  may also be provided in the mobile device, such as a speaker, headphone jack, status lights, vibration component, or the like, to allow information to be conveyed to the user. The mobile device  may also include an accelerometer  to determine an orientation and to detect small-scale motion of the device and a location determination component (e.g. a GPS component)  that is used to determine a physical location and to detect large-scale motion of the device.","To establish a communication channel with other devices or services, the mobile device may include one or more other communication components , such as components that enable the mobile device to communication with other devices or networks via short range communication protocols (e.g., Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Ultra-wideband, and ZigBee) and radio-access network protocols (e.g., GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access), UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System), EDGE (Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution), LTE (Long Term Evolution), WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access), UMA\/GAN (Unlicensed Mobile Access\/Generic Access Network)). The mobile device may also include communication ports (e.g., USB port, etc.) for connecting the mobile device  to an external device (e.g., a personal computer) using a wired connection. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the mobile device  may also include various other computing components that are not expressly identified in the figure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3F","FIG. 3A"],"b":["105","300","105","300","305","310","315","320","325","330","335"]},"It a mobile device user would like to access the messages in a queue, the user may quickly and easily do so by pressing and holding a corresponding button -that is associated with the queue. Selecting and holding a corresponding button causes the mobile device to connect with the application or service associated with the queue. Such connection may be made visually, such as via the primary display, or in an auditory fashion, such as over a speaker in the mobile device. For example, the selection of button associated with the voicemail queue  causes the mobile device to connect with a voicemail service and allow the user to listen to un-accessed or previously-accessed voicemails. As another example, the selection of button associated with the social networking queue  causes the mobile device to access and display on the primary display a preferred social networking service (e.g., MySpace, LinkedIn, Facebook, Orkut). When connecting with an application or service, the mobile device may provide identification information or other log-on information (e.g., a password) to facilitate the connection process. Services may be accessed via a browsing application on the mobile device (e.g., a WAP browser), or via a dedicated application that is contained on the mobile device and that is associated with accessed service. The messaging status mode  of the secondary display  therefore allow a mobile device user to quickly assess the number of messages waiting for the user and determine which, if any, application or service that the user would like to access in order to retrieve the waiting messages. The messaging status mode presents limited information to the user, which allows the user to determine whether a longer interaction via the traditional accessing method (i.e., primary display or voice channel) is warranted.","When a new message or an indication of a new message is received by the mobile device, the secondary display system presents a summary of the new message to the mobile device user and increments the queue count associated with the message.  are screen shots that depict the presentation of a message summary to the user. For messages that are textual in nature (e.g., emails, IMs, SMS, etc.), a displayed summary may include the contents of a regarding (i.e., \u201cre:\u201d) line, the first line of the message, an indication of the sender that sent the message, a time the message was received, keywords that are contained in the message, and other similar information. For audio messages, a displayed summary may include an indication of the sender that left the message, a time that the message was received, a portion of a speech-to-text transcription of the message, and other similar information. To enhance the visual impact on a user, in some embodiments the message summary is scrolled across the secondary display.  depict such scrolling. In the example depicted in , a new email message has been received by the mobile device. The secondary display system has exited the messaging status mode and entered a message summary mode, wherein the system causes a message summary to start to scroll across the secondary display. In the depicted example, the scrolling progresses from the right side of the display to the left side of the display. To indicate that the received message was an email, an email icon  precedes the summary text. The email icon is followed by selected summary text , which in the depicted example is the \u201cRE:\u201d line from the email message. The message summary (i.e., the icon and the text) scrolls across the display, and as depicted in , progressively scrolls off of the left side of the display. In order to maximize the likelihood that the user will see the message summary, each message summary may scroll two or more times across the secondary display. While scrolling may be used to call a user's attention to the summary, it will be appreciated that other mechanisms could be used to highlight a message summary, such as flashing the summary on the display, displaying the summary in a different color, displaying the summary in conjunction with a tone or other sound, causing the summery to face into or out of view, etc. In addition, colors and tones may be used by the system to distinguish messages that are received from one sender or class of sender over messages received from other senders. For example, messages from certain friends may be displayed by the system in a different color or presented in conjunction with a certain tone that is different than the color or tone that is used by the system to present messages from other friends.","If a user presses a button or otherwise selects a message summary as it is being presented to the user, the system may implement various functions related to the displayed message summary. For example, the system may present additional summary information about the message to the user, such as the sender name, date, or time, if only the regarding line from the message had initially been displayed in the message summary. As another example, the secondary display system may allow a user to respond to the received message in a limited and pre-defined manner as will be described in greater detail with respect to .","After the message summary has been displayed to a user, the secondary display system updates the appropriate message queue count to reflect that an additional message is waiting to be accessed by the user.  depicts the secondary display  when it returns to the messaging status mode . As a result of the email that is received by the mobile device, the email queue  has been modified to reflect the newly-received message. In the depicted example, the email queue count has been incremented from three to four messages. Various graphical techniques may be utilized to show incrementing the queue count. For example, an animation may show the envelope icon  from the message summary being overlaid onto the envelope icon of the email queue. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other animations may be utilized to enhance the user's understanding of the messaging status mode operation.","It a mobile device user would like to review the summaries of messages in a queue, the user may quickly and easily do so by pressing the corresponding button -that is associated with a queue for a short period of time. Selecting a button for a short period of time causes the mobile device to sequentially re-display on the secondary display each message summary that is associated with a message in the queue. The system may also allow a user to manually step through each message summary associated with a message in the queue, such as by pressing the corresponding button once for each message summary. A user may therefore quickly review the summarized contents of a queue to determine if any of the messages require immediate attention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["400","405","410"]},"Once the message summary has been constructed, at a block  the system displays the message summary on the secondary display. The message summary may be scrolled, flashed, statically displayed, faded in or out, etc. At a block  the system increments the count of the message queue that is associated with the message and displays the updated count in the messaging status mode screen. In some embodiments, the system may increment and display the updated count for the message queue in the messaging status mode screen without first displaying a message summary to a user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["425","430","435","440","430","440"]},"At decision block , the system determines whether a threshold period has been exceeded by any of the messages in a message queue. Each message queue may have a different threshold period that reflects a length of time that a message should remain represented in the queue count before the age of the message indicates that the message is likely stale. For example, because instant messaging sessions are so transitory, a user may only be interested in seeing the number of new IM messages that have been received within the past hour represented in the IM queue count. In contrast, because voicemails are typically important to a user, the number of voicemails contained in the voicemail queue may be important to the user regardless of the length of time that a voicemail has remained in the queue. The user would therefore expect to see all voicemails that haven't yet been accessed accounted for in the voicemail queue count. At decision block , the age of each message that is represented in the queue count is compared against the associated threshold period. If the age of one or more messages is older than the threshold period, processing continues to block  where the message queue count is appropriately decremented. When the age of a message indicates that it is older than the threshold period, it is unlikely that a user would be immediately interested in accessing the message and the need to show the message to the user in the corresponding queue count is therefore reduced. Note that decrementing the queue count only impacts the messaging status information that is presented to the user. The corresponding message is still contained in the queue and may be accessed by the user via the appropriate application or service interface. After decrementing the queue count, processing continues to a decision block . Similarly, if none of the messages represented in a queue count have exceeded the corresponding threshold period at decision block , processing continues to a decision block .","At decision block , the system determines whether an indication has been received from the user to reset the queue count. In some embodiments, the system may allow the user to manually reset the queue count to zero for one or more queues. By resetting the queue count, the user is able to control the time period over which received messages are monitored. If a command to manually reset a queue count has been received by the system, at a block  the system sets the corresponding queue count to zero. If a command to manually reset a queue count has not been received by the system, processing returns to decision block  to continue to monitor access to the message queue by the user. Process  may be performed by the system for all message queue counts that are being managed and updated by the system.","In some embodiments, the secondary display system may offer different status modes to the user to highlight the status of different mobile device services or states.  are screen shots of various status modes that the secondary display system may present on the secondary display.  depicts a social networking status mode  having status summaries of various social networks to which a user belongs. Icons representing four social networks are depicted (MyFaves by T-Mobile, mySpace, Facebook, Twitter), but additional or different social networks may be displayed. Each social network has an associated count of messages that are waiting to be accessed by the user at that social network. For example, six messages are awaiting access at myFaves and 27 tweets are awaiting access at Twitter. Social networking messages may include the presence of pokes, notifications, updates, tweets, and other messages such as are commonly available at social network services. In some embodiments, counts of different types of messages available from a single social network service may be presented to the user. For example, the Facebook queue includes a count  of \u201c10\/3\u201d, which indicates the presence of 10 wall posts and 3 pokes. Selecting a corresponding button causes the mobile device to connect with the social networking service associated with the queue and display the messaging interface of the social networking service on the primary display of the mobile device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["510","515","520","525"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5D"],"b":["530","535","540"]},"While five status modes have been discussed herein, it will be appreciated that any additional status modes relevant to a mobile device user may also be presented on the secondary display. To switch between status modes, the system may allow key chording of buttons -. For example, the nearly simultaneous selection of buttons and may place the display into the social networking status mode, the nearly simultaneous selection of buttons and may place the display into a location status mode, etc. Alternatively, the repetitive pressing of a button combination (e.g., buttons and ) may cause the display to sequentially cycle through the various status modes. When the secondary display is a touchscreen, the user may be able to switch between different status modes by scrolling horizontally. For example, a gesture to one side of the display or the other may cause the mobile device to switch to the next status mode. Other techniques may be utilized by the system to automatically predict which status mode should be displayed to a user depending on the state of the mobile device. For example, the system may have a default mode when the mobile device hasn't been accessed for an extended period of time or when the mobile device is utilized to make a telephone call.","In some embodiments, the secondary display system may allow a user to respond to a received message in a limited and pre-defined manner.  are screen shots of an interface that is generated by the system and which allows the user to respond to a message using the secondary display  and buttons -.  is a screen shot that depicts the presentation by the system of a message summary  to a user. In some circumstances, upon viewing a message summary the user might like to quickly reply to the message sender. To allow the user to do so, the system may offer the user a simple interface to generate a response. Such a response mode may be automatically entered, for example, by the user pressing any of the buttons -when a summary message is scrolling across the secondary display.  is a screen shot a response interface  that is generated by the system and presented to the user. The response interface  contains three simple responses that may be sent in reply to a received message, namely a \u201cYes\u201d response , a \u201cNo\u201d response , and an \u201cI'll Call\u201d response . In addition, the system may provide a \u201cMore\u201d menu option  to allow the user to see additional responses. The user may respond to the received message using a selected response by pressing the appropriate button -. When the system detects the selection of a button, the system automatically generates a message with the desired response and sends the response to the original message sender. Upon sending the response, the system may provide a confirming statement  on the secondary display to inform the user that a responsive action was taken.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","705","710","715","705","700","700","115"],"i":["a","d"]},"It will be appreciated that the presence of the accelerometer  in the mobile device allows the interface presented by the system on the secondary display  to be modified depending on the orientation or motion of the mobile device. For example, the system may detect the orientation of the mobile device based on the signal from the accelerometer and flip the icons and counts that are displayed to a user so that the icons and counts are always displayed in a right-side up manner to the user. As another example, the system may detect when the mobile device has been physically shaken and may interpret the shaking as a command from the user to reset all displayed queue counts to zero. As still another example, the system may detect a tap of the mobile device on one side and interpret the tap to indicate that a user would like to switch the displayed status mode. In this manner, a user would be able to quickly cycle through all of the status modes on the secondary display by sequentially tapping the device.","The above detailed description of embodiments of the system is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the system to the precise form disclosed above. For example, an API may be provided to the secondary display to allow third party developers to develop other applications that might use the secondary display other than as described herein. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the system are described above for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the system, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while processes or blocks are presented in a given order, alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps, or employ systems having blocks, in a different order, and some processes or blocks may be deleted, moved, added, subdivided, combined, and\/or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also, while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series, these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel, or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples, and alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.","From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but that various modifications may be made to the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
