---
title: Hinge assembly for electronic device
abstract: A hinge assembly includes a first connecting member, a second connecting member, and a pivot subassembly. The pivot subassembly connects the first connecting member to the second connecting member. The pivot subassembly includes a rotatable shaft, a sleeve, and a positioning ring. The rotatable shaft is non-rotatably connected to the first connecting member. The sleeve is sleeved on the rotatable shaft, and non-rotatably connected to the rotatable shaft. The positioning ring is non-rotatably connected to the second connecting member. The sleeve defines two positioning cutouts, and the positioning ring defines two positioning protrusions engaging with the positioning cutouts. When the rotatable shaft rotates, one of the sleeve and the positioning ring deforms, so that the at least one positioning protrusion disengages from the at least one positioning cutout.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08011066&OS=08011066&RS=08011066
owner: Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd.
number: 08011066
owner_city: Tu-Cheng, New Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20090408
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE STATEMENT","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to four co-pending U.S. patent applications, application Ser. No. 12\/267,716 filed on Nov. 10, 2008, entitled \u201cDUAL-AXIS HINGE MECHANISM,\u201d application Ser. No. 12\/327,644, filed on Dec. 3, 2008, entitled \u201cHINGE ASSEMBLY FOR ELECTRONIC DEVICE,\u201d application Ser. No. 11\/261,232, filed on Oct. 30, 2008, entitled \u201cHINGE ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE,\u201d and application Ser. No. 12\/337,765, filed on Dec. 18, 2008, entitled \u201cHINGE ASSEMBLY WITH RESTRICTING UNIT.\u201d The co-pending applications have the same assignee as the present application.","1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates generally to hinge assemblies and, more particularly, to a hinge assembly for electronic device.","2. Description of Related Art","An electronic device such as a mobile phone, a notebook computer, or a personal digital assistant, generally has a main body and a cover with a display pivotally mounted on the main body via a typical hinge assembly.","The typical hinge assembly includes a base, a friction member, a stand, a cam, a cam follower, a plurality of spring washers, a plurality of flat washers, a fastening member, and a pivot shaft. The cam defines a plurality of positioning peaks. The cam follower defines a plurality of positioning valleys corresponding to the positioning peaks. The base is fixed to the main body of the electronic device. The stand is fixed to the cover of the electronic device. The spring washers provide an elastic force along the pivot shaft. One end of the pivot shaft is fixed to the stand, and the other end of the pivot shaft extends through the base, the friction member, the cam, the cam follower, the spring washers, the flat washers, and engages with the fastening member. The stand and the cam follower are non-rotatably connected to the pivot shaft, and the cam is fixed to the base.","However, the typical hinge assembly has a complex structure and many components. Therefore, the typical hinge assembly has a high manufacturing cost.","Therefore, a hinge assembly which overcomes the above-described shortcomings is desired.","References will now be made to the drawings to describe certain inventive embodiments of the present disclosure in detail.","Referring to , an embodiment of a hinge assembly  is applied in an electronic device . The electronic device  includes a cover  and a main body . The cover  is rotatably connected to the main body  via the hinge assembly . The cover  is rotatable on an axis B relative to the main body .","Referring to , the hinge assembly  includes a first connecting member , a second connecting member , and a pivot subassembly . The pivot subassembly  connects the first connecting member  to the second connecting member . The first connecting member  is configured for connecting with the cover , and the second connecting member  is configured for connecting with the main body .","The first connecting member  includes a main portion , a first connecting portion , and a second connecting portion . The first connecting portion  and the second connecting portion  extend from opposite ends of the main portion . The main portion  defines a non-circular pivot hole  for sleeving on the pivot subassembly . The first connecting portion  defines an assembling hole . The second connecting portion  defines an assembling hole .","The second connecting member  includes a fixing plate . A center of the fixing plate  defines a substantially circular through hole . A ring portion  is formed on a first surface of the fixing plate  around the through hole . The ring portion  defines two positioning cutouts  opposite to each other. A restricting groove  is defined in a second surface of the fixing plate  opposite to the first surface around the through hole .","The pivot subassembly  includes a rotatable shaft , a sleeve , a friction member , a positioning ring , and a restricting member .","The rotatable shaft  includes a flange , an assembling portion , and a pivot portion . The assembling portion  and the pivot portion  extend from opposite sides of the flange . The flange  defines two positioning grooves  in a periphery. The assembling portion  is shaped to be non-rotatably received in the pivot hole  of the first connecting member . The pivot portion  defines an annular groove  adjacent to the flange .","The sleeve  defines two positioning cutouts  opposite to each other in a first end. Two positioning pieces  opposite to each other are formed on the first end. The positioning pieces  engage with the positioning grooves  of the rotatable shaft . The sleeve  also defines a cutout  communicating with one of the positioning cutouts . In the illustrated embodiment, the sleeve is cylindrical.","The friction member  defines a plurality of oil holes for receiving lubricating oil. The friction member  also defines a central hole (not labeled) having a shape corresponding to the pivot portion  of the rotatable shaft .","The positioning ring  forms two positioning protrusions  opposite to each other on an inner surface thereof. The positioning protrusions  engage in the positioning cutouts  of the second connecting member .","The restricting member  defines a non-circular through hole  in a center portion, corresponding to a cross-section of a shape of the pivot portion  of the rotatable shaft . A restricting protrusion  is formed on the restricting member , and is received in the restricting groove  of the second connecting member .","Referring to , in assembling the hinge assembly , the assembling portion  of the rotatable shaft  engages in the pivot hole  of the first connecting member . The pivot portion  of the rotatable shaft  extends through the sleeve , the friction member , the positioning ring , the second connecting member , and the restricting member . The sleeve  is sleeved on the rotatable shaft , and the positioning pieces  of the sleeve  engage in the positioning grooves  of the rotatable shaft . The positioning ring  is sleeved on the ring portion  of the second connecting member , and the positioning protrusions  engage in the positioning cutouts  of the ring portion . The positioning protrusions  further engage in the positioning cutouts  of the sleeve . The restricting member  is received in the through hole  of the second connecting member , and the restricting protrusion  of the restricting member  is slidably received in the restricting groove . The sleeve  is then non-rotatably connected to the rotatable shaft , and the positioning ring  is non-rotatably connected to the second connecting member .","In use, the cover  is rotatable relative to the main body  (as shown in ). The first connecting member  together with the rotatable shaft  rotates with the cover . Since the sleeve  is non-rotatably connected to the rotatable shaft , and a top portion of the sleeve  including the positioning pieces  can contract into the annular groove  of the rotatable shaft , the positioning protrusions  of the positioning ring  disengage from the positioning cutouts  of the sleeve  and resist the cylindrical surface of the sleeve . The sleeve  is now elastically deformed. When the cover  rotates through a predetermined angle, the positioning protrusions  of the positioning ring  engage in the positioning cutouts  of the sleeve  again, so that the rotatable shaft  is thereby fixed at a position corresponding to the predetermined angle. When the restricting protrusion  of the restricting member  resists an end of the restricting groove , the cover  is prevented from rotating.","The cover  of the electronic device  using the hinge assembly  can be positioned via an engagement of the sleeve  and the positioning ring . Therefore, the hinge assembly  does not need a cam, cam follower, or spring washers employed in the typical hinge assembly. The hinge assembly  has a simple structure and therefore, a lower manufacturing cost.","It should be pointed out that a rotating subassembly may be positioned on the first connecting portion  or the second connecting portion , so that the cover  can be turned relative to the main body . In addition, the positioning ring  of the hinge assembly  can be omitted, and the positioning protrusions  can be formed on the second connecting member  around the through hole . The annular groove  of the rotatable shaft  can also be omitted, but a diameter of the sleeve  should be slightly larger than that of the pivot portion  of the rotatable shaft . The sleeve  may not define the cutout , however, the positioning ring  should be elastic, so that it can be deformed in a rotating process. In addition, the sleeve  may define one positioning cutout  or more than two positioning cutouts , and the positioning ring  may define one positioning protrusion  or more than two positioning protrusions .","It is believed that the present embodiments and their advantages will be understood from the foregoing description, and it will be apparent that various changes may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure or sacrificing all of its material advantages."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The components in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, the emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
