---
title: GPS and wireless integrated fleet management system and method
abstract: A fleet management system has a communication and positioning module associated with each fleet vehicle, and a back end monitoring and control system located at a fleet data center in communication with each vehicle. The system monitors each trip automatically and generates time stamps at the start of a trip, a pick up location, a drop off location, and return of the vehicle to a garage at the end of a trip. Vehicle status information is collected and stored along with time stamps. The information is used to generate billing and payroll accounts, and also in monitoring conditions of fleet vehicles and generating alerts as needed. Turn-by-turn route instructions are provided to each vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519921&OS=09519921&RS=09519921
owner: E-Lantis Corporation
number: 09519921
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090626
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61\/076,265 filed Jun. 27, 2008, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to a fleet management system and method for managing a fleet of vehicles.","2. Related Art","Fleet management is required in many businesses, such as limousine, trucking, and taxi businesses. The current management systems are not able to track vehicle or chauffeur status in real-time. Driver time-sheets are managed based on honesty, which means either business owner writes fixed hours for drivers or drivers record their working hours by themselves. Either of the two ways may lead to over or under paying drivers, which may lead to unnecessary expense or lawsuits for underpaying employees for business owners.","The current management systems cannot raise alerts automatically before chauffeurs or other drivers reach scheduled pick up locations if any emergencies happen, for example, if a chauffeur oversleeps or encounters bad traffic, or even accidents. The emergencies are often noticed when passengers complain to customer services that the chauffeur or driver did not show up on time. Without pre-emptive action on emergencies, such situations may often lead to poor customer satisfaction, refusal of payment or even compensations to the customers.","Another problem with many current fleet management systems is that they cannot enforce Geo-fencing (meaning enforcing affiliates business territories), which may cause unfair job dispatch. This often leads to bad and unnecessary competition among affiliates and service delay due to over\/under estimate on affiliates' capacity.","Many current management systems cannot track vehicle status on battery, mileage, engine, brakes, gas, and the like in real-time, which may cause skips of scheduled maintenance or check-ups and undetected deliberated abuse of vehicles from unhappy employees. This often leads to very expensive and unnecessary vehicle repairs. In some cases, vehicle leases expire with low mileage due to unawareness of mileage usage on each of the vehicles in the fleet.","Current fleet management systems often require chauffeurs to be on the phone for status updates, directions, or urgent requests, which may cause potential hazard due to the distraction and may lead to traffic tickets\/fines due to government regulation on cell phone usage while driving.","In one embodiment, a fleet management system is provided which comprises a chauffeur peer module or station (CPS), a positioning and communication module, and a backend office system (BOS). The positioning and communication module may include a global positioning system (GPS) and wireless communication unit (GWU). The CPS and GWU modules are located in the vehicle. The CPS module has an input for receiving data input from a driver, either automatically or optionally via a manual input, voice command, or the like. The CPS logs every step of a journey from starting the ignition in a garage to completing the service and bringing the vehicle back to the garage.","The GWU sends log information back to the BOS in real-time and this data is captured based on CPS request and stored into a service database. Using the real-time vehicle information, BOS provides real-time turn by turn information back to chauffeurs through their CPS units, if necessary. In one embodiment, turn-by-turn instructions are provided by voice output, so that the driver can concentrate on driving without having to look at instructions on a screen. The BOS is also able to provide urgent service re-schedule or re-routing information. After the service is completed, BOS generates customer rating\/feedback reports, billing statements, payroll reports and vehicle maintenance reports if necessary. BOS can also export real-time data to other management systems for different clients.","This system provides integrated, automated and instantaneous\/real-time fleet information. The system guides each chauffeur or driver to complete their service from garage out to garage in step by step automatically, logs required vehicle information during the service\/route, enforces business rules, connects to the backend system or BOS for automatic billing and payroll processing and generates business or statistical reports for further management.","According to another embodiment, the system includes a data exchange platform which connects various back-office systems of different fleet affiliates or franchises which provide transportation services, such as different limousine services, taxi services, or the like for data sharing and exchange. This allows large fleets of vehicles to be managed in real time over broad geographies and may be extended to world-wide operation to other countries. Client position is matched to the closest available affiliate company, and the data exchange platform then forwards the order to the affiliate's database. After confirmation, the order is automatically dispatched to the requested vehicle\/chauffeur to dispatch a vehicle to the client.","In one embodiment, a client or end user module or mobile portal is provided. This may be downloaded by clients and installed on a portable electronic communication device such as a mobile phone, personal digital assistant, portable or laptop computer, or the like. The mobile portal allows the user to locate the closest available vehicle and book a ride, or to make a reservation for a future ride. The request is automatically routed through the data exchange platform to the appropriate affiliate to dispatch a vehicle.","Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide a fleet management system which may be used for handling fleets used in various different types of businesses, such as limousine services, taxi services, trucking, ambulance services, and the like. In the following description, the embodiment described is a limousine service having a number of vehicles driven by chauffeurs. However, it should be understood that the same system may be used for tracking and managing other types of driving jobs, including trucking jobs, taxi services, ambulance services, and the like, and the term chauffeur should be understood to any trained driver who operates a self-propelled vehicle, such as an automobile, for a profession. The system may be used for managing different types of vehicles, including land vehicles such as taxis, cars, trucks and limousines, water vehicles such as ferries, water taxis, ships, and the like, as well as aircraft.","After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. However, although various embodiments of the present invention will be described herein, it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only, and not limitation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 1 to 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","12","14","15","16","15","14","10","18","20","18"]},"The chauffeur peer station (CPS) or module  has a handheld or embedded touch screen device , which helps chauffeurs or drivers to complete their routes and update the route status. CPS module  automatically confirms the route status when vehicle reaches the scheduled locations (i.e. pickup location, stops, client destination or in-bound garage). Alternatively, the chauffeur can manually confirm the status or confirm the status by voice input by a microphone if needed. Every time route status changes (e.g. from garage out to pick up arrival or route started) CPS module  triggers the backend system to stamp the time and save the GPS location for the status change. After the service is completed, every important step in the route is recorded. CPS  also provides a set of Mobile Kiosk functionalities, which can automatically log tolls, fees and can manually log extra passengers, requested stops and passenger rating\/feedbacks. Most importantly, CPS  includes a sync service module  which may be a Microsoft\u00ae sync service, and a chauffeur route assistant module  which provides chauffeurs with turn by turn directions (via both graphical user interface and audio speeches delivered by a speaker) to the pick-up location or passengers' destinations if requested.","The GPS (Global Positioning System) and Wireless (GWU) module  is a hardware unit physically installed inside a service vehicle. This device provides key data about the vehicle, which includes, but is not limited to, ignition On\/Off status, real-time vehicle location, real-time vehicle mileage, vehicle speed, vehicle direction, gasoline gauge reading, tire-pressure reading, engine diagnostics reading, maintenance data reading and theft protection features. In one embodiment, the GWU subsystem includes three components, as illustrated in . The first component is a GPS unit  which calculates the vehicle's GPS coordinates (longitude and latitude) using signals from GPS satellite  in a known manner. This unit also calculates vehicle direction (i.e. heading south, or north etc) and vehicle speed. The update rate can be up to every 1 minute. This information is provided to BOS  at scheduled times.","The second component of the GWU  is a vehicle data collection unit , which is hotwired with vehicle's central computer system. It can read vehicle mileage, gasoline gauge, tire pressure (if equipped) and vehicle diagnostics data in real time. These data are critical for updating maintenance record, scheduling next maintenance, finding potential problems and reporting misconducts.","The third component of GWU  is a wireless communication unit , which is responsible for sending out the important data collected from GPS unit  and vehicle data unit  to a local wireless carrier's backend server . The data is retrieved by Backend Office System (BOS)  as needed. This unit also accepts text messages for configuring the GPS and vehicle data collection units and for theft protection features including forced engine off (if the vehicle's central computer system supports this feature).","GPS data and vehicle data are tracked and recorded periodically (based on the refresh rate setting, which may be up to every minute). These data are sent to BOS system  (along with time stampings collected via CPS) to generate maintenance reports\/request, billing statements, payrolls, waybills and so on.","The backend office system (BOS) module or subsystem  is illustrated in more detail in , and provides a user interface for fleet live (real-time) map tracking, fleet status monitoring, service delay alerts, vehicle malfunction\/misconduct alerts, geo-fencing alerts and service re-scheduling\/re-dispatching in case of emergencies (see ). This system may be installed on a local server  at data center  which is linked to the CPS module over the Internet. BOS  has communication interface with CPS devices via the internet, as illustrated in , to provide services requested from chauffeurs, for an instance, turn by turn direction guide, traffic updates, route status updates, log timestamps etc. The BOS module  is also responsible for getting GPS and vehicle data (in real-time) for each of the vehicles that are currently out on jobs from the wireless carrier's backend server , in order to be able to track and monitor the fleet, record status, raise alerts (if any) and generate waybills. BOS has the responsibility to interface with other management systems, so that the GPS and Wireless solution can be integrated with existing management systems seamlessly.","In the embodiment illustrated in , BOS or control system  basically comprises server hardware module , storage and communication module , an application services module , and an operation console  for receiving commands from an operator  and providing data to the operator. Operation console  may comprise a touch screen or a display screen and keypad input device. The storage and communication module  includes a vehicle and GPS data communication client unit  which receives vehicle and GPS data from the GWU module , a CPS data communication server unit  for receiving communications from the CPS module  and sending communications to the module , and a data base unit  linked to units  and  which receives and stores data from both modules in connection with each job or trip carried out by vehicles in the fleet.","The application services module  comprises a mapping, traffic and direction service module , a geo-fencing module , a vehicle data collection service module , a data\/state logging service module , a waybill, payroll, and reporting service module , and a communication service module . The mapping, traffic and direction service module  communicates with websites over the Internet in order to receive current traffic delay information, and may communicate with external websites to receive mapping and direction information. Alternatively, mapping and direction software for the area covered by the fleet may be included in the BOS system .","Geo-fencing module  defines the boundary of the jobs to be assigned at any one location. Geo-fencing areas are defined initially by an operator via a graphic user interface and can be updated anytime. Geo-fencing is used to improve the performance time from receiving the order to dispatch it to the mobile unit. This process is automated by the geo-fencing module. When a job is assigned, the geo-fencing module performs a check to determine whether it extends outside the defined geo-fencing area for the fleet service. If so, a notification is provided to the operator via the operation console. Any jobs assigned beyond the geo-fencing boundary must be justified (by a supervisor or any other senior personnel) and recorded.","Vehicle data collection service module  collects and monitors vehicle data on each vehicle in the fleet. When a vehicle is assigned to a job, this module checks the status of the vehicle using the data stored in data base  and notifies the operator if there are any areas of concern, such as maintenance due or the like. This module also monitors real time vehicle data received during a trip or job, such as mileage, gas, diagnostics, tire pressure, battery status and the like, and sends an alert to the operator when a potential problem or error is detected.","The data\/state logging service module  reviews logging as well as vehicle position and status information received real time during a trip, and generates delay alerts which are provided to the operator if the vehicle is delayed or is detected to be not moving or off route.","Waybill, payroll, and reporting service module  generates various business and statistical reports based on information gathered on all vehicles in the fleet. The reports include billing statements, payroll reports, vehicle maintenance reports, customer rating\/feedback reports, and the like. Communication service module  provides communication between the operator and the chauffeur.","The operation module includes a user interface screen  as illustrated in  which includes real time map tracking screen  that shows the operator the position of all vehicles dispatched by the operator from the beginning to the end of a job. On the left hand side of screen  is an operator interface portion  which allows the operator to select from various options such as dispatch vehicle, contact chauffeur, search assets, generate reports, and the like. An alert monitoring screen  will pop up on screen  to show any alerts generated by the geo-fencing service module  (trip outside designated area), vehicle data collection service module  (vehicle condition alert, such as low battery, low gas, maintenance overdue, or the like), the data\/state logging module  (vehicle delay alert, such as unexpected stops, delay in reaching a checkpoint, or the like), or traffic delay alerts for a scheduled trip based on input from the mapping, traffic, and direction service module .","A dispatching screen  is used by the operator to select vehicles and chauffeurs to dispatch for each job received, and to send instructions to the chauffeurs or drivers for each designated job. Waybill\/reports screen  is used by the operator to communicate with waybill, payroll and reporting module  to generate any desired business or statistical reports.","Operation of the system is described in more detail below with reference to the flow charts of .  illustrates a typical trip sequence. As illustrated in , the system logs job information automatically from the start to the finish of a job or trip. The chauffeur or driver first logs in (). The BOS system detects the log in and checks the data base to determine if the chauffeur is authorized for the trip (), and notifies the operator and chauffeur if authorization is not found. If the chauffeur is authorized, the system commences monitoring of the vehicle status via the GWU unit  associated with the vehicle, and monitoring and collection of data continues throughout the trip. The vehicle data unit detects when the chauffeur starts the vehicle (). A delay alert is generated by module  if vehicle ignition is not detected within a predetermined time period after ignition. The system logs ignition on when a chauffeur starts the vehicle and also logs the time when the chauffeur leaves the garage (). At each of these log points, a timestamp is stored ( and ), and vehicle information is also downloaded and stored, such as gas mileage, engine status, tire status, and the like. This information is monitored by modules  and  and alerts are generated if any areas of concern are detected, such as unexpected delay or unacceptable vehicle status. This information is also used in monitoring fleet vehicle status to determine when vehicles should be scheduled for service and the like. Location information is also stored along with the garage out timestamp, at step . During a trip, a driver can request turn by turn assistance (), which is provided by voice commands in one embodiment, as illustrated in more detail in , so that the driver does not have to direct their attention away from the road.","Arrival at a pickup location () is also logged automatically with a timestamp and detected GPS location (), and this data is stored as part of the job information. Data\/state logging service module generates delay alerts and the like if the vehicle is detected to be late arriving at the pickup location, so that the operator can take additional steps such as contacting the driver for explanation of the delay, and contacting the customer to notify them that the driver has been delayed. After picking up one or more passengers (), the vehicle is re-started, and the start of the route () is then logged with timestamp and location (). If any stops are required during the trip (), the chauffeur drives to the stop location (), arrives at the location (), and a log of the timestamp and stop location is created (). If no more stops are needed (), the chauffeur continues to the destination (). On arrival at the destination, a timestamp and location log is created (). The chauffeur may also collect customer feedback at this time (), and any collected information is stored (). This information may later be used in generating customer feedback reports. After dropping off the passenger, the driver returns to the garage (). On entering the garage (), a timestamp is logged (), and vehicle information such as gas, mileage, tire, engine status, and the like is also collected, stored, and processed. A timestamp is also logged when the engine is turned off ().","Each of the timestamp and location logs may be created automatically on detection of vehicle status, or may be initiated by the chauffeur by voice command or actuation of a control. Based on the precise logging from the start to the end of a trip, a chauffeur's time sheet is generated by the report generating module and recorded automatically for payroll processing by module . A bill may also be generated based on the length of the trip and any intermediate stops.","The BOS subsystem collects all the information from each of the vehicles in the fleet in real-time. It knows which vehicle is on what job at any given time. A pre-emptive delay alert is set by the system for each of the scheduled job\/routes. Alerts may be generated by any of the monitoring modules , ,  and  during each trip. When the chauffeur who is on the job doesn't leave the garage on the scheduled time or doesn't reach predefined checkpoints, an alert is raised automatically by service module  and sent to the responsible operator, who then checks on that incident. A backup chauffeur (who is near by) can be sent to cover the emergency if necessary. Similarly, traffic delay alerts may be generated by module  and provided to both the operator and chauffeur, allowing alternative routes to be determined in order to avoid any traffic hold-ups. Geo-fencing alerts are generated if a driver is detected to be outside the designated service area. Finally, vehicle status alerts are generated if a vehicle problem is detected based on information received from the vehicle data unit in GWU module .","The alert system is illustrated in more detail in . As noted above, a pre-emptive delay alert is set for each scheduled job or trip. Other alerts which may be stored or detected by the system are vehicle maintenance alerts, traffic delay alerts, and geo-fencing alerts, as described above. Once the trip starts (), the system checks for any alerts () and notifies the chauffeur and manager or operator if any alerts are detected (). The alert is handled appropriately based on type (), as illustrated in more detail in . The system continues to monitor for alerts throughout the trip. If no alerts are detected at the start of the trip, mileage and vehicle data is collected (), and the vehicle moves out of the garage (). Once the vehicle is en route (), the system collects vehicle speed and direction data () and monitors for all types of alerts (). Vehicle data is also collected at predetermined intervals, such as the minute intervals, throughout the trip. Alerts may be generated during the trip, for example, if the vehicle stops while en route or if the vehicle is traveling in the wrong direction, fails to reach a predetermined checkpoint by an assigned time, and include traffic alerts () based on detected traffic hold ups by mapping, traffic and direction service module , for example as a result of input from traffic monitoring websites. If any alert is detected, the chauffeur and manager are informed (), and the situation is handled as appropriate. If the alert is a traffic alert, a detour or alternative route may be generated by the traffic and direction service module () and the driver may be provided with turn by turn directions for the detour (). A turn by turn guide is also provided if direction assistance is requested by the driver (). After arrival at the location (), the driver returns to the garage (), vehicle data is collected (), and the engine is turned off ().","A more detailed block diagram of a delay alert or emergency is illustrated in . When a delay or potential delay alert of any type is generated by module , ,  or , the system first determines whether it is a traffic delay (). Alerts may be generated automatically based on scheduled maintenance, malfunctions of vehicles, abuse of vehicles, deviation of planned routes, lease expirations and mileage expirations, as well as traffic delays. If a traffic delay is detected, a detour is generated (), and the driver is provided with turn by turn instructions (). When another type of delay alert is generated, the system or authorized operator needs to determine whether a serious delay is involved (). This can be done by reviewing the alert information or asking the driver for the cause of the delay, for example. If the delay is not serious, the customer is contacted () and informed that the vehicle may be a few minutes late, and the event information is recorded (). A report is made to the supervisor (), and the job is continued (). If the delay is serious, for example an accident or vehicle breakdown, the system determines whether there is another vehicle available nearby (). If so, the current dispatch is stopped and the vehicle is instructed to return to the garage when possible (). At the same time, the nearby vehicle is sent to the pick up location (). If there is no nearby vehicle, the customer is informed. Customer feedback may be obtained and stored (, ) at the end of the job.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["10","186","15","188","190","192"]},"If the BOS accepts the request for directions at step , the mapping, traffic and direction service module  retrieves map direction information for the trip (), and also retrieves traffic information () in order to detect any traffic delays and arrange for a detour if needed. At the same time, vehicle data collection service module  retrieves the current vehicle location and speed from GWU module  (step ). The direction service module utilizes the retrieved data in order to optimize the route from the vehicle's current location based on traffic information (). The direction service module also starts a remote guiding sequence (), and sends directions and turn by turn instructions in text to the CPS module  (step ). The CPS module  receives the instructions in text (), and starts the text to voice component (step ), which converts the text instructions into a voice output and reads out the directions and turn information () on a turn-by-turn basis using updated information on current vehicle location so as to time the instructions to the vehicle's movement along the route. The instructions stop on arrival at the location ().","With the above system, vehicle data is collected periodically in real time from the vehicle's onboard computer and stored in the data base at the BOS . This data includes mileage, gas, diagnostics, tire pressure, battery status and the like. The vehicle data is used to generate vehicle maintenance reports for business owners and to track the maintenance record as needed. Scheduled maintenance, malfunctions of vehicles, abuse of vehicles, deviation of planned routes, lease expirations and mileage expirations can trigger alerts to be sent to the personnel responsible for the particular incident or vehicle.","In one embodiment, the CPS provides voice commands allowing the chauffeur to communicate with BOS or any representatives if needed. Turn by turn direction is also provided via voice. CPS information logging can be done automatically (by default) without requiring the chauffeur to intervene. This allows the chauffeur to focus on the road instead of on the phone or other controls, and may improve safety.","The real-time vehicle data collection on every move of every vehicle in the fleet allows the vehicles' movements to be tracked and monitored in real time. This helps a chauffeur to complete services with high customer satisfaction. This also allows the status of vehicles in the fleet to be tracked and monitored continuously so that the fleet's maintenance records can be maintained and potential misconducts or accidents can be avoided, and also allows jobs to be assigned to vehicles more efficiently.","Since every move of every vehicle on any job is logged with a precise timestamp, the complete waybill record regarding each service job is generated automatically when the service ends and the chauffeur returns to the garage. The electronic waybill with all the detailed\/required information is used for billing and payroll processing without any manual process. Therefore no mistake is made and billing and wage\/payroll can be automated and processed in quickly and efficiently.","In one embodiment, geo-fencing areas are set according to county boundary, city boundary, zip code boundary, and even phone number area code boundary. Crossing boundary job dispatch is disallowed unless justified by supervisors. Geo-fencing areas and enforcement rules can be modified by authorized personnel and changes take effect right away.","The CPS subsystem used by the chauffeur provides automated confirmation on route status change. Chauffeurs do not need to manually confirm route status changes like garage out, garage in, pickup arrival, destination arrival, and the like, because the CPS subsystem or module automatically confirms the status based on the calculation of vehicle locations and movements. This not only increases the accuracy of the vehicle status for monitoring and recording, but also improves driving safety.","The above system provides real-time and full scale service\/route tracking, automatic billing and payroll, vehicle status monitoring, status updates, real-time vehicle data inspection, and pre-emptive delay alerts and Geo-Fencing alerts. An integrated voice command system further adds to the ease of use of the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 and 9","FIGS. 1 to 7","FIG. 10"]},"In the system of , a plurality of transportation providers or affiliates  such as taxi companies, limousine companies, or the like communicate over one or more networks such as the Internet  for sharing information and receiving reservations for dispatching purposes. Each affiliate  has one or more servers  which include a back-office system . Each back office system communicates with the rest of the system over the Internet via a data exchange platform (DEP) or plug and play platform . In one embodiment, the DEP is a downloadable, plug-in component which may be added to the back-office system of each affiliate. Each DEP communicates with affiliated DEPs using a suitable universal or open standard communication language used to share information between different systems, such as open extensible mark-up language (XML) data contracts , as indicated in . Each data exchange platform (DEP)  runs as a web service server to transform, send out, and receive data for its back-office system . The DEP uses standard communication protocols such as hyper text transfer protocol (HTTP) or HTTP secure sockets layer (HTTPS) to transmit data, and applies industry standards for web service addressing, security, transfer, secure conversation, metadata exchange, and the like.","Each DEP  comprises a security filter  through which network communications are filtered, a data transformation module , a GPS data enhance module , an administration module , and an integration module . The DEP  is downloaded to an affiliate's back-office system  which includes one or more data bases  for storing fleet vehicle data, chauffeur data, customer data, reservations data, billing data, affiliate data, and the like. System  also includes an application programming interface  and an application core , and may include some or all of the components illustrated in the back end office system of .","The DEP integration module  has three types of integration with back office system . A web service interface  provides an interface for sending out back-office data such as reservations, client information, reservation changes, and the like, to a particular affiliate or group of affiliates, regardless of the types of back-office system used by the affiliates. This interface also provides an interface for incoming information from other affiliates, such as reservations dispatched to the back office system  from another affiliate. This interface may be designed to distribute XML based simple object access protocol (SOAP) messages via HTTP\/HTTPS connections. Once it has subscribed with the affiliate network, the back office system is informed whenever data is delivered to the system. An API integration module  allows the DEP to actively call the back office system to send out or receive data among affiliates or networks. This can be used if the back office has communication APIs allowing third party calls. A direct integration module  is used to allow the DEP to read or write data directly to the back office data base.","The data transformation module  has data adapters  to transform or translate back and forth between the home system-dependent (back office dependent) data structure and open XML data contract to allow communications with other affiliates which may be using different back office systems. For example, outgoing data from the back office system of affiliate A in  is in the proprietary structure\/format of affiliate A. This is transformed into open XML data contract format, and then sent to another affiliate, such as affiliate C. The DEP at affiliate C receives the data in open XML data contract format and transforms it to the affiliate C data format, then transfers it to the back office system of affiliate C for further processing. This allows affiliate A and affiliate C (or any other combination of affiliates ) to talk to each other seamlessly.","The GPS data enhance module  is an optional subsystem in the DEP which is designed to communicate with the GWU  described above in connection with  so as to receive data from that system, as described in more detail below in connection with . The GPS data enhance module basically uses the DEP plug and play platform to provide GWU communication capability for other back office systems, and is a GPS data communication client that gets GPS data from the wireless data center  of . The GPS data enhance module has a CPS data channel  to receive status information from the CPS modules of , and a client endpoint station (CES) data channel  which receives status information from a CES or end user mobile portal, as described below in connection with . This provides data updates on vehicle tracking, billing, alerts, geo-fencing, and the like.","The DEP administration module  provides an administration web portal  to allow system administrators to manage data transformation and security during data exchange between heterogeneous back office systems of different affiliates. The following settings may be managed via this web portal:","1. Data structure, including data fields, data types, type mappings, alias, and the like.","2. Version control, which resolves compatibility issues.","3. Data security, including encryption, authentication, authorization, and data alerts including data integrity check, data sensitivity check, data priority check, and the like.","The security filter  blocks sensitive data to be sent out and adds security thumbprints to data, such as digital signatures, encryption, authorization marks, and the like, based on security policy which may be set through the DEP administration portal \/module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["314","341","325","342","324","314","344","18","345","346","316","348","350","352","354","314","355","356","316","358","360","62","360","364","365","362","365","366","367"]},"At step , the DEP transformation module  at the destination affiliate transforms the data received in open XML data contract into the destination back office system format, and the transformed data is passed on to the DEP integration module , which passes the transformed data to the destination back office system for processing (step ). The back office system sends the data for appropriate processing and returns a proper acknowledgement to the source affiliate (step ) and the process ends (). Processing of the data at the destination back office system may include storing the reservation information and initiating dispatch of a vehicle to pick up the client at the appropriate time and place.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1 to 7","FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 1","FIGS. 1 to 7","FIGS. 8 and 9"],"b":["400","404","402","15","14","320"]},"The system of  also provides the ability for clients or passengers to access fleet services easily from any location, via the CES system , . End-User Mobile Portal (EMP) is a free client application that may be downloaded and installed to the subscribers' mobile devices such as mobile phones, portable digital assistants, laptop computers or mini laptop computers, and the like. The supported mobile phones may include iPhones, Blackberries and Microsoft Mobile 6 based smart phones, and the like. The EMP application adds convenience to both frequent clients and occasional emergency-driven clients.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["404","404","405","406","408","410","412","405","408","406","410","412"]},"The CES backend server  is illustrated in more detail in . The CES backend server  may be part of a national dispatch center responsible for dispatching vehicles from affiliated transportation companies in response to requests received from customers via mobile handheld devices , using the EMP application. CES backend server  is linked to various affiliates' back office systems \/ and to wireless data center  over one or more networks A such as the Internet, a local intranet, and\/or a local area network (LAN). The wireless data center  receives and stores real time vehicle information from the various in-vehicle GWU modules.","As illustrated in , the CES back end server communicates with client devices  such as mobile devices via phone using CES web service interface , or via Internet web browser using CES website . Each of these modules is linked to the CES core processing module  illustrated in more detail in , and the core processing module is linked to CES communication module . For users  who are using a smart phone or personal digital assistant such as an iPhone\u00ae, Blackberry\u00ae, or a phone running Microsoft mobile platform, the CES phone application can be downloaded and installed using the mobile smart phone application. The phone application can then be used to place requests, submit confirmations, view real time information, and carry out other features supported by ROD, ROC, ROS and ROT. For users  who are using a regular mobile phone which has the capability of browsing a website (or a portable computer or mini-computer), the CES web application can be downloaded and installed from the CES website to provide ROD, ROC, ROS and ROT features. The CES communication module  uses web services provided by the back office systems and the wireless data center  to retrieve vehicle availability and other affiliate information, as well as real time vehicle location data.","As illustrated in , the CES processing module includes an EMP download module  through which a prospective client for transportation services can request download of the free EMP application . Once the EMP application is downloaded, the end user\/client can choose to register for ongoing EMP\/CES services via EMP registration module , or can simply enter their payment information for a one time use without registration, via one time payment module . If the client chooses to register for ongoing services, the CES server obtains and stores registration information such as payment method\/billing information, home locations, frequent pick up locations, and contact information in the registered client database . The CES backend server also includes stored information on fleet or transportation affiliates in database .","The Ride-On-Demand (ROD) module is illustrated in more detail in  and is used for booking an urgent ride. Once the client has downloaded the EMP application and either registered for service or for one time use, or if they are a previously registered client, they can start the EMP application as needed at step . A user interface is then displayed on the display screen  of their mobile device (see ) which includes buttons , ,  at the top for selecting ROD, ROS, or ROC. If the client needs a ride immediately, they select ROD by touching button ROD  (step ). This launches the CES ROD module, and a button \u201cRequest a Ride\u201d is displayed. When the client clicks or touches the button to request a ride (step ), a query appears on the screen asking if the client wishes to use their current GPS location as the pick up address (step ). If the client picks \u201cYES\u201d at this step, they are prompted to enter the desired destination (step ). If the client picks \u201cNO\u201d at step , they are prompted to enter the pick up address (step ), and then prompted to enter the desired destination (step ). Once the destination is entered, the clients' current GPS location and information on vehicle status from affiliates in the desired geographical area is used to automatically select a local affiliate based on availability and distance, and the request is sent to the local office for confirmation (step ), with details of the client GPS location or requested pick up address and selected destination, along with a request (step ) for confirmation that the affiliate's chauffeur is able to pick up the client within thirty minutes (or other selected time period). If the answer is NO, a search is made for more affiliates with vehicles in the area (step ). If an affiliate with availability is found, the request is routed to that affiliate (step ), and the new affiliate is asked if they can pick up within the selected time period (step ). If no other affiliate with availability can be found, the client is sent a message indicating \u201cNot Available\u201d (step ), and a recommendation is made to the client to select ride-on-schedule (ROS) to schedule another pick up time (step ). If the client selects ROS (step ), the ROS subroutine or module is launched (step ) and proceeds as illustrated in , and the ROD ends (step ). If the client does not want to re-schedule at step , the ROD subroutine ends ().","If the affiliate answer at step  is yes, they can pick up within the selected time period, a confirmation is sent to the client with the rate for the trip (step ). The rate of trip is calculated based on the type of ride (dedicated or transfer) which is established by that particular industry (such as delivery, taxi, limousine, and so on). The client is asked to indicate whether or not they agree with the rate (step ). If the client does not agree with the rate, the system searches for alternative affiliates at step  as described above. Once a ride is scheduled and confirmed at step  by pressing ORDER  on the user interface screen in , the client is notified on the details of the pick-up on the screen of his\/her mobile phone (see region  of display in ), and the GPS map is displayed on the screen with the icon \u201cLOCATE\u201d  (see ). If the client wishes to track the driver's current location using the ride on time module or ROT (step ), they click on the LOCATE icon, and the driver's current location is displayed on the screen (step ) along with driver contact information, speed, traffic information, car identifying information such as car model\/color and license plate, and approximate arrival time (step ). This information can be sent in text mode with a text description of the current vehicle location and estimated arrival time. The client can monitor the driver's progress on the map, and can contact the driver at any time () while the driver is traveling to the client's location, by tapping the car on the map (step ). They are then able to communication with the driver via voice or message regarding any delays, concerns, or service changes. Monitoring of the vehicle position can continue after the driver arrives () and the client is picked up () until they reach the drop-off location. After the ride ends, the client's account (or the credit card\/prepaid card) is billed or charged automatically for the service.","The Ride-On-Schedule module  is for users\/clients to schedule a ride through any affiliated company at any time.  illustrates operation of the ROS module. At the start of the ROS , the user taps on the ROS icon  on the display screen to launch ROS (), and a list of local affiliates appears on the screen (). The user can opt to pick a preferred affiliate at step , and then picks an affiliate by tapping on the selected affiliate displayed on the screen (), or picks auto select. After making the selection at step  or , the client is prompted to enter a pick up address or current GPS location (), a destination (), and a pick up time (), along with any other options which may be provided by ROS. For example, the user may also pick a car type, as seen in . After selecting pick-up location, destination, car type and time, and confirming the request (), the request is sent either to the nearest affiliate (step ) or the user selected affiliate (), depending on which option was selected at step . If the affiliate accepts the request (), the affiliate sends a confirmation with the rate for the trip (). If the client agrees (), the reservation is made (). If the first selected affiliate at steps  or  does not accept the request at step , a search is made for additional affiliates (), and the request is routed to another affiliate (). If that affiliate accepts at step , the system proceeds to steps ,  and  as described above. If the search for more affiliates at step  is unsuccessful, a service unavailable response  is sent to the user, and the user is asked if they wish to select a different pick up time (). If they answer \u201cYES\u201d to this option, they are returned to a display screen at step  to allow entry of a different time, and the process proceeds as described above. If the client answers \u201cNO\u201d at step , the ROS subroutine ends (). If the client does not agree to the affiliate's rate displayed at step , a search is made for more affiliates at step  as described above.","Once a reservation is made at step , whether with the first affiliate selected or a subsequent affiliate, the ROT option of  is displayed on the screen. The client or user can select ROT close to their pick up time by clicking on the LOCATE icon (step ), after which the map shows the real time driver location () as described above in connection with , and the client has the option of calling the driver at any time (steps , ). The ROS module also includes an automatic reminder which sends an alert to the client at a selected time interval before the pick up time, for example one hour or another selected time period (step ). In the ROS module, users\/clients can schedule a ride with any affiliated company at any time. In one embodiment, clients using ROS have the option of selecting pick-up location, destination, car type and time, users\/clients are prompted with all the closest affiliate companies that provide the service for that market with price quote, company rating, and extra information (name, license, additional charge etc) for them to decide which one to pick.","The operation of the Ride-On-Call (ROC) module  is illustrated in the flow diagram of . This option is used to make a reservation by client's cell phone through a National Dispatch Center or when there is no available car on the ROD module (see step  of ). Based on the client's current GPS location (by default) or any Point of Interest (POI) such as a landmark, airport, hotel, or the like, the ROC module enforces Geo-fencing, picks the affiliate company's phone number sorted by closest to the pick up location, and makes a call by one click. A registered client uses stored credentials to complete the booking and an occasional user can use his\/her credit card to complete the booking. If the local affiliated company is not able to schedule the service (i.e. overbooked, line busy, etc), ROC automatically tries the next nearest company until the service is booked successfully.","In one embodiment of the ROC , as illustrated in , the user starts the ROC () by first tapping on the ROC button or icon  on the display screen. This launches the ROC module (). The ROC picks affiliates closest to the user's location (or a user selected point of interest) and displays a list of affiliates with their basic rates (). The client may sort the list based on price, rating, location, or any other preference (step ). The ROC then picks the uncalled affiliate at the top of the list and dials its reservation line (). After the user is connected to the reservation line, they talk to the representative (). If a reservation is made as a result of the call (), the ROC is programmed to send an alert to the client at a selected time interval prior to the pick up time, such as one hour (step ), and the ROC procedure ends (). If a reservation is not made as a result of the first call at step , the client is asked whether they want the ROC to automatically dial the next affiliate's reservation line (step ), and if they select \u201cYES\u201d, the ROC automatically dials the reservation line of the next affiliate on the list at step , and the procedure continues as described above. If the client or user selects \u201cNO\u201d at step , the client can pick an affiliate from the list (step ), the ROC calls the reservation line of the selected affiliate (step ) and the procedure continues as above.","In any of the ROD, ROS or ROC procedures, the option of ROT is provided. As long as a user has a reservation via ROD, ROS or ROC, he or she can launch ROT as indicated in steps  to  of  in order to obtain detailed information on the vehicle and to call the driver if desired.","The fleet management system and method described above automatically provides integrated, automated, and substantially real time fleet information on vehicle location and vehicle mechanical status. Transportation companies which have the GWU and CPS modules installed in their vehicles, along with the backend office system described above, can readily track and monitor all drivers, dispatch drivers efficiently to passenger pick up locations, guide each driver to complete each service from garage out to garage return automatically, and also determine if there are any traffic alerts or vehicle status alerts which require changes in route and\/or vehicle for a pick up. The addition of the DEP or data exchange platform to existing, heterogeneous back office systems of affiliated transportation companies allows such systems using different data communication languages to communicate with one another for more efficient usage of available vehicles, as described above. Finally, the addition of the end user mobile portals and CES back end server allows prospective passengers to call for a ride quickly and efficiently, at any time and in any location.","Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, units, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, units, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition, the grouping of functions within a module, block or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module or block without departing from the invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, components, units, and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor can be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor can be any processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, for example, a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.","Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using, for example, components such as application specific integrated circuits (\u201cASICs\u201d), or field programmable gate arrays (\u201cFPGAs\u201d). Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.","The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The details of the present invention, both as to its structure and operation, may be gleaned in part by study of the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals refer to like parts, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 12A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 16A","FIG. 11","FIGS. 11 and 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 16C","FIGS. 11 and 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 16D","FIGS. 11 and 15"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
