---
title: Document-based workflows
abstract: A workflow application allows users to store, manage, and perform tasks related to workflows comprised of ordered sets of documents. The application provides an interface for creating and managing a workflow. Each document added to the workflow is assigned to a particular position in the workflow. Via the interface, the user saves data defining the workflow. In this manner, the workflow may be shared or preserved for subsequent re-use. The application allows a user to perform various tasks with respect to the workflow. Via an interface control presented by the application, the user instigates such tasks. In response, the application causes the task to be performed for each document in the workflow in an order corresponding to the arrangement of the documents within the workflow. For example, the application may render and print each document in the workflow. Or, the application may generate a combined workflow report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429194&OS=08429194&RS=08429194
owner: Palantir Technologies, Inc.
number: 08429194
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090909
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application 61\/097,059, entitled \u201cCollaborative Interface Enhancements\u201d and filed Sep. 15, 2008, the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e). This application further claims the benefit of Provisional Application 61\/122,695, entitled \u201cWorkFlows, Screenshot Techniques, and Sharing Information across Servers\u201d and filed Dec. 15, 2008, the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e).","Embodiments of the invention described herein relate generally to document management, and, more specifically, to techniques for organizing and storing information about collections of documents.","The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued, but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated, it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.","In the course of a project, a user will often create a large number of interrelated documents. For example, as part of a financial analysis project, a user may create separate documents analyzing each of a financial instrument group, a date set, an index created using the date set and the instrument group, a regression analysis performed on the index, and a trading strategy based on the regression.","These documents, however, are typically difficult to manage. File systems are very limited in their ability to organize, view, and label documents. Beyond placing documents in different folders in a file system, a user has no way to organize documents. Moreover, for many tasks that the user would like to perform on a project level, such as printing, updating, executing, or sharing, the user must perform the task manually for each related document, often in a prescribed order that is not reflected in the way the documents are organized within the file system. Manual performance of these tasks for each document in a project is tedious and time-consuming.","Furthermore, it can be difficult to keep track of the ordering of the documents as well as interdependencies between documents that may necessitate such ordering. A user lacks, for instance, any convenient mechanism for communicating information about document ordering and interdependencies to another user.","In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","Embodiments are described herein according to the following outline:\n\n","According to an embodiment, a workflow application may allow users to store, manage, and perform tasks related to workflows comprised of ordered sets of documents.","According to an embodiment, a workflow application may present a user with an interface for creating and managing a workflow. The interface may be, for instance, a graphical user interface that includes icons representing the documents and various other aspects of the workflow. Via the interface, the user may add documents to the workflow. Each document may be assigned to a particular position in the workflow. For example, a document that depends on the results of another document may be ordered after that other document. Via the interface, the user may save data defining the workflow. In this manner, the workflow may be shared or preserved for subsequent re-use.","According to an embodiment, a workflow application may allow a user to perform various tasks with respect to the workflow. Via an interface control presented by the workflow application, the user may instigate a workflow task. The workflow application may cause the task to be performed for each document in the workflow in an order corresponding to the arrangement of the documents within the workflow. According to an embodiment, one such task causes the application to render and print each document in the workflow, according to the order of the documents in the workflow. According to an embodiment, another such task causes the application to open all of the documents in the workflow, and perform a find and replace operation in each of the documents.","In other aspects, the invention encompasses a computer apparatus and a computer-readable medium configured to carry out the foregoing steps.","2.0. Creating a Workflow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"At step , the workflow application receives input identifying a plurality of documents to be added to the workflow. The input may be received via a user interface presented by the workflow application. For instance, the input may be received via file selection dialogs of the user interface or drag-and-drop operations involving the user interface. The input may also or alternatively be text-based input read by the workflow application as a result of, for example, an import operation or shell-based command.","The workflow application may also allow a user to create documents which are then added to the workflow.","According to an embodiment, the workflow application is also a document viewing or editing application. The document viewing or editing interface may therefore feature a control for adding a currently viewed document to a workflow.","The added documents may be of any document type. For example, they may be word-processing documents, image files, spreadsheets, or graphs. The documents may include code or other data that, when interpreted by a document viewing application, causes document viewing applications to render various items dynamically based on data imported from another document or data source. The documents may also include code that uses data from some other source to derive new data. The documents may also be workflows in and of themselves, so that a workflow is comprised of other workflows.","Documents may reside in any location accessible to the workflow application, including a local file system or a centralized document management server, such as a Palantir Finance server. According to some embodiments, the documents may all have been created using a common document editing application, such as a Palantir Finance client. According to other embodiments, some or all of the documents may have been created using different document editing applications.","At step , the workflow application receives input identifying an ordering of the documents within the workflow. Again, the input may be received via a user interface presented by the workflow application. The input may be based on, for example, textual input identifying a position number of the document in the ordering. Or, the input may be a drag and drop operation, such as occurring when a user operating a mouse clicks on and drags an icon for one document to a higher position in a graphical depiction of the ordered documents.","According to an embodiment, steps  and  are performed concurrently, in that input that identifies a document to be added to the workflow explicitly or implicitly identifies a position for that document in the ordering of the workflow. For example, in the case of a user adding documents to the workflow one-by-one, the workflow application may implicitly assume that an added document is always to be ordered in the last position of the workflow.","At step , the workflow application saves data indicating the workflow. The workflow application may perform step , for instance, in response to a user clicking on a \u201csave\u201d control, the lapsing of a certain amount of time, or the occurrence of workflow-related events. The workflow application may save the data in any of a variety of suitable formats, some of which are discussed in subsequent sections.","At step , the workflow application may transmit the data to another user for viewing and editing. Step  is optional, in that it illustrates one of the many benefits to having saved data indicating the workflow. It may be useful to instead perform other actions with respect to the saved data, such as opening the saved data with a workflow application at a later date to continue work with the workflow.","3.0. Workflow Data Structure","A workflow may be represented by structured data hereinafter referred to as workflow data. Workflow data may identify documents in the workflow by reference. For example, the workflow data may include data indicating the location of or a unique identifier for some or all of the documents in the workflow. Workflow data may also or instead identify documents by incorporation. In other words, workflow data may contain copies of some or all of the documents in the workflow. According to an embodiment, a workflow application may present an interface control for selecting how some or all of the documents in the workflow should be identified in the workflow data.","Workflow data may further indicate the ordering of the documents in the workflow. For example, data identifying the documents in the workflow may be placed in the same order as the documents were positioned within the workflow. As another example, data identifying a document in the workflow may have associated therewith data indicating a numerical position of the document in the workflow.","As another example, data identifying a document in the workflow may implicitly indicate an ordering for a document by indicating a relationship to or a dependency on another document. For example, a certain document may depend upon outputs generated during the processing of another document, and therefore data identifying the certain document may indicate a dependency on the other document. Thus, the workflow application may assume that the certain document is ordered after the other document, so as to ensure that the outputs are properly generated.","Workflow data may be stored in any format capable of identifying both the documents in the workflow and the ordering of those documents in the workflow. According to an embodiment, data indicating the workflow may be XML or binary data. For example, the following XML data define a two document workflow, wherein the documents are identified by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0041"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<WorkflowDocument>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<header>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<type>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<displayName>Workflow<\/displayName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<documentClass>WorkflowDocument<\/documentClass>"]},{"entry":[{},"<fingerprint>STANDARD<\/fingerprint>"]},{"entry":[{},"<parserName>Workflow<\/parserName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<pluralDisplayName>Workflows<\/pluralDisplayName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<iconName>workflow<\/iconName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<helpURISuffix>workflow.html<\/helpURISuffix>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/type>"]},{"entry":[{},"<childIds\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<id>9b73dee5-febc-4746-b951-678eda641e48<\/id>"]},{"entry":[{},"<name>Nifty Workflow<\/name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>description<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<revision>1<\/revision>"]},{"entry":[{},"<creator version=\u201c1\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<authenticatorId>builtin<\/authenticatorId>"]},{"entry":[{},"<userId>andy<\/userId>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/creator>"]},{"entry":[{},"<lastModifiedDate>1229151071793<\/lastModifiedDate>"]},{"entry":[{},"<saveState>NORMAL<\/saveState>"]},{"entry":[{},"<isDraft>false<\/isDraft>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/header>"]},{"entry":[{},"<workflowSteps>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<propertyName>WorkflowDocument.EVT_LIST_CHANGED<\/propertyName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<registerChildModels>true<\/registerChildModels>"]},{"entry":[{},"<list>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<innerList>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<IdentityArrayList_-Pointer>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<value class=\u201cWorkflowStep\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"224pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<document class=\u201cChartDocument\u201d resolves-to=\u201c"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"DocumentLinkingConverter$DocumentLink\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<documentId>e5e16186-071c-4dd4-b07e-20293f957878<\/documentId>"]},{"entry":[{},"<revision>1<\/revision>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"224pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/document>"]},{"entry":[{},"<title>Nifty Chart<\/title>"]},{"entry":[{},"<description>Description<\/description>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/value>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/IdentityArrayList_-Pointer>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<IdentityArrayList_-Pointer>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<value class=\u201cWorkflowStep\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"224pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<document class=\u201cDateSet\u201d resolves-to=\u201c"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"DocumentLinkingConverter$DocumentLink\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<documentId>8f1b7b0a-e3e0-429d-8e62-d51a9758042d<\/documentId>"]},{"entry":[{},"<revision>1<\/revision>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"224pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/document>"]},{"entry":[{},"<title>Nifty Analysis<\/title>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<description>Description<\/description>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/value>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/IdentityArrayList_-Pointer>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/innerList>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/list>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/workflowSteps>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/WorkflowDocument>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"At step , in response to user input, the workflow application reads saved data indicating a workflow. For example, the workflow application may receive input indicating an open command for a file in which the data indicating the workflow has been saved.","At step , the workflow application displays a graphical representation of the workflow, including controls representing each ordered position within the workflow along with the document corresponding to that position.","At step , the workflow application receives input that selects a particular workflow position.","At step , the workflow application optionally presents a menu of actions that may be performed with respect to the document at the particular workflow position. Such a menu may be displayed, for example, in response to right-click input selecting the particular workflow position.","At step , the workflow application receives further input selecting an action to be performed with respect to the document at the selected position. For example, the input may be a drag and drop operation that moves the document to another position. Or, the input may be a second click indicating that the workflow application should cause a document viewing or document editing application to open the document. Or, the input may be a keystroke that causes the workflow application to delete the document at the selected position. Or, when a menu of actions has been presented in accordance with step , the input may be input that selects an action from the menu. In fact, various different types of input may select from a wide variety of other actions that be performed with respect to a document at a selected position.","At step , the workflow application performs (or causes to be performed) the selected action with respect to the document at the selected position. For example, if the selected action was to delete the document, the workflow application may delete the document. This may only delete the document from the workflow, or it may delete the document from the file system where it is stored. As part of this step, the workflow application may need to communicate with one or more other applications, so as to cause the other applications to perform various steps. To this end, the workflow application may invoke an instance of another application. The workflow application may then send instructions to and receive results from the other application via an interface for the other application, such as an application programming interface (API) or a command-line interface. For example, if the indicated action was to print the document, the workflow application may launch a separate document viewing application for the document. The workflow application may then issue a command to the document viewing application to print the document.","At step , the workflow application may optionally take actions with respect to non-selected documents in the workflow in order to maintain consistency throughout the workflow. For example, in response to a document deletion, the workflow may need to re-order other documents in the workflow. As another example, when another document is dependent upon data in the selected document, the workflow application may detect the dependency and update the other document based on the changes to the selected document. Where changes are made to the document using an external document editor, the workflow application may cause the external document editor to update or make corresponding changes to data in any dependent documents.","5.0. Workflow Tasks",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"At step , in response to user input, the workflow application reads saved data indicating a workflow. For example, the workflow application may receive input indicating an open command with respect to a file in which the data indicating the workflow has been saved.","At step , the workflow application receives user input selecting a particular task-related control. For example, the workflow application may have presented a graphical user interface based on the workflow data. The graphical user interface may include menu controls for selecting any of a wide variety of tasks that may be performed with respect to the entire workflow, including printing, updating, rendering, screenshotting, exporting, saving, deleting, and executing.","At step , the workflow application iteratively performs (or causes to be performed) the task for each document in the workflow, according to the document ordering for the workflow. The workflow application may perform this step in a manner similar to step , but for each document indicated by the workflow. For example, the workflow application may perform a print task for the entire workflow by performing, for each document in the workflow, in the order indicated by the workflow, the steps of (1) opening the document in a document viewing or editing application and (2) triggering the print functionality of that document viewing application.","In one embodiment, the workflow application must further cause a document viewing and editing application to render or update data immediately prior to performing the selected task for the document. For example, where a document in the second position of a workflow relies on data generated by scripts in a document from the first position of the workflow, the workflow application may cause the document to be updated with that data immediately prior to printing the document.","According to an embodiment, a workflow document may itself indicate a workflow. In such cases, when it comes time to perform a task with respect to the embedded workflow document, the task is performed recursively with respect to the ordered documents in the embedded workflow. Once each document in the embedded workflow has been processed, the workflow application may continue to perform the task with respect to the next document in the parent workflow.","In some embodiments, the workflow application must wait for the task to finish executing before proceeding to the next document. In other embodiments, where a document is not dependent on previous documents, the workflow application may perform the task with respect to the document without waiting for the task to complete for the previous document. The workflow application may further comprise logic for detecting such dependencies and determining when to perform various steps based on the detected dependencies.","At step , the workflow application optionally merges results from performing the task into a single workflow result. For example, the task selected in step  may have been to generate a reporting file, such as a PDF or PowerPoint document, for the entire workflow. The workflow application, in step , may have generated a report for each individual document. In step , the workflow application may therefore merge the individual report in the indicated order so as to create a single workflow report. According to an embodiment, individual results are arranged within the workflow result in the same order as their corresponding documents are positioned in the workflow. Thus, if results are not generated sequentially with respect to the workflow (as may occur in embodiments where the workflow application does not wait for one document to be generated before starting to generate results for another document), step  may involve the workflow application rearranging the results in the order of the workflow.","According to an embodiment, the workflow application may present controls for selecting whether or not to perform step . According to an embodiment, when step  is not performed, individual results are saved in separate files.","6.0. Workflow Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400"]},"User interface  includes a workflow interface  for presenting to a user various aspects of a workflow. Workflow interface  comprises: a title control , indicating that the depicted workflow has a title attribute of \u201cB Workflow\u201d; a descriptive control , indicating that the depicted workflow includes descriptive metadata describing the workflow as \u201cdescription\u201d; and step controls A-E, each corresponding to a different step of the depicted workflow. Each of controls , , and A-E allows a user to edit the depicted aspect of the workflow.","Each step depicted by step controls A-E corresponds to a previously prepared document that is positioned within the workflow. Each document has been previously created as a result of user interaction with an application program, such as a financial data analysis program. By default, the order of the step controls represents the order in which the documents corresponding to the step controls were created and\/or added to the depicted workflow. However, the user may reorder the documents using the step controls.","To assist the user in understanding the workflow, each step control A-E may display various document attributes. These attributes may be described in or based upon metadata associated with the corresponding document. For instance, as indicated by title attributes A-E, displayed inside of step controls A-E, the documents corresponding to step controls A-E are named \u201cSeries 5 vs Target,\u201d \u201cSeries 6 vs Target,\u201d \u201cDeflator 4, adjusted\u201d, \u201cDeflator 2, adjusted,\u201d and \u201cJanuary February Dates.\u201d","As another example of document attributes that may be displayed, step controls A-E depict attributes that generally describe the contents of a document, such as description attributes C and D. Description attributes C and D indicate, respectively, that the document named \u201cDeflator 4, adjusted\u201d contains metadata describing the document as \u201cd1.yoy( )\u201d, and that the document named \u201cDeflator 2, adjusted\u201d contains metadata describing the document as \u201c((this\u2212100)\/100).stitch(d1.yoy( )Enum.BOTH).\u201d","As another example of document attributes that may be displayed, step controls A-E also display document type icons, such as document type icons A-E. These icons indicate the document type of each of the documents depicted in step controls A-E. For example, icons A and B indicate that the documents named \u201cSeries 5 vs Target\u201d and \u201cSeries 6 vs Target\u201d are graph documents, icons C and D indicate that the documents named \u201cDeflator 4, adjusted\u201d and \u201cDeflator 2, adjusted\u201d are custom metric documents, and icon E indicates that that the document named \u201cJanuary February Dates\u201d is a date set document.","Step controls A-E may further display a wide variety of other attributes for other items of metadata associated with the corresponding documents. For example, metadata concerning access dates, modification dates, dependent objects, and ownership might be displayed. Moreover, the workflow application may create additional items of metadata for display in step controls A-E, including thumbnail images based on screenshots or other renderings of information contained in or produced by the corresponding documents.","Step controls A-E further display position attributes A-E indicating the position of each document in the workflow. Since the documents are ordered, each document occupies a unique position in the workflow. As indicated by position attributes A-E, those positions are as follows: the document named \u201cSeries 5 vs Target\u201d is at position , the document named \u201cSeries 6 vs Target\u201d is at position , the document named \u201cDeflator 4, adjusted\u201d is at position , the document named \u201cDeflator 2, adjusted\u201d is at position , and the document named \u201cJanuary February Dates\u201d is at position . As implied by this ordering, the workflow may comprise other documents as well in positions -. However, the ordering need not require a document in each position. Since a workflow may comprise any number of ordered documents, the workflow may further contain documents in other positions, such as positions , , and so on. It should also be noted that while step controls A-E are currently ordered sequentially with respect to the workflow positions occupied by their corresponding documents, workflow interface  may also allow step controls A-E to be sorted in other orders independent of workflow positions.","Workflow interface  is configured to receive user input via save control  that causes the workflow application to save workflow data. The user input may, for example, type in a name by which the workflow data is to be saved. The data indicating the workflow may then subsequently be re-accessed using a data access or \u201copen\u201d command on this name within workflow interface .","Workflow interface  is configured to receive user input that causes the workflow application to add documents to the workflow. A user may, for example, drag and drop an icon for a document from document listing  at or in between positions indicated by step controls A-E. The document represented by the icon will then be inserted at the indicated position.","Workflow interface  is configured to receive user input that causes the workflow application to reorder the documents within the workflow. For example, a user may select step control B and either press an up arrow key or click and drag the mouse upwards to move document indicated by step control B to a different position in the workflow.","Workflow interface  is further configured to receive user input that causes the workflow application to perform certain actions with respect to individual documents within the workflow. For example, a user may select control B. In response to various combinations of mouse-clicking or key presses, the workflow application may perform any number of different actions with respect to the document indicated by step control B. Among the many actions that may be performed with respect to the document indicated by step control B are: modifying the position of the document, removing the document, opening the document for editing, updating data within the document, printing the document, and changing document metadata. The workflow application may also present a menu of the above-described and other actions in response to certain mouse-clicks or key presses.","Workflow interface  may be further configured to receive user input that causes the workflow application to perform certain tasks with respect to the entire workflow. For example, workflow interface  may include various toolbar controls that cause the workflow application to perform one or more actions on each document in the workflow. Among the many actions that may be performed with respect to the entire workflow are: simultaneously updating data within each document, printing each document individually or in a merged form, generating other individual or merged output by processing instructions embedded in each document, executing a script in each document, and changing metadata for each document.","Workflow interface  is merely an example of an interface that may be useful in creating, managing, and utilizing a workflow. Many other interfaces may also be used to provide the same workflow functionality as workflow interface .","7.0. Implementation Mechanism\u2014Hardware Overview","According to one embodiment, the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special-purpose computing devices. The special-purpose computing devices may be hard-wired to perform the techniques, or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques, or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware, memory, other storage, or a combination. Such special-purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard-wired logic, ASICs, or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special-purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems, portable computer systems, handheld devices, networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard-wired and\/or program logic to implement the techniques.","For example,  is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system  upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system  includes a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a hardware processor  coupled with bus  for processing information. Hardware processor  may be, for example, a general purpose microprocessor.","Computer system  also includes a main memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory  also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions, when stored in storage media accessible to processor , render computer system  into a special-purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.","Computer system  further includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to bus  for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, is provided and coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions.","Computer system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.","Computer system  may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard-wired logic, one or more ASICs or FPGAs, firmware and\/or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system  to be a special-purpose machine. According to one embodiment, the techniques herein are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another storage medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.","The term \u201cstorage media\u201d as used herein refers to any media that store data and\/or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non-volatile media and\/or volatile media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, solid state drive, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic data storage medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical data storage medium, any physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, NVRAM, any other memory chip or cartridge.","Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example, transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio-wave and infra-red data communications.","Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra-red transmitter to convert the data to an infra-red signal. An infra-red detector can receive the data carried in the infra-red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor .","Computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are example forms of transmission media.","Computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface .","The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","8.0. Extensions and Alternatives","In the foregoing specification, embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus, the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention, and is intended by the applicants to be the invention, is the set of claims that issue from this application, in the specific form in which such claims issue, including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence, no limitation, element, property, feature, advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
