---
title: System and method for overlay advertising and purchasing utilizing on-line video or streaming media
abstract: A system and method for overlay advertising and purchasing utilizing on-line and streaming media. In at least one embodiment, a viewer user receiving on-line video or streaming media is able to pause content and be directed, on the same media player, to a product panel to select product(s) to be purchased, customized, or to receive additional static or dynamic information. The method and system also provides for network connectivity to other web-based and physical services and tracking systems to determine traffic to and from the on-line video or streaming media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336528&OS=09336528&RS=09336528
owner: 
number: 09336528
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090204
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","RELATED FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF TERMS","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/203,057 filed on Dec. 16, 2008. The entire disclosure of the prior application is considered to be part of the present disclosure and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention is related to the display supplemental information upon a pause of a media presentation, and in particular, to the presentation of such supplemental information and its corresponding media presentation using network communications to control and manage such presentations. More particularly, the present disclosure relates to the field of on-line advertising, and to a system and method for using overlay advertising and purchasing utilizing on-line video or streaming media.","Purchasing decisions are made with the consideration of various factors. Consumers use the combination of intellectual and emotional justifications to make purchasing decisions. As such, brand impact can be used to effectively leverage and persuade both intellectual and emotional justifications. The medium that currently has the greatest opportunity for delivering both intellectual and emotional persuasion through brand impact is the audience's personal screen (e.g., computer screen, mobile phone, iPod, or other personal screens). The interactivity of the personal screen allows the audience (viewer) to act on their persuasions.","On-line advertising continues to grow exponentially each year. The proliferation of computers, wireless devices, and broadband connections make on-line advertising an attractive option for businesses. One area of particular growth in on-line activity is users viewing on-line video or streaming media. The use of personal and commercial on-line video and streaming media has grown with the use of web services and portals such as YouTube\u2122. Marketers have been trying to figure out how to take advantage of this trend. Previous methods such as pre- and post-roll video advertising, similar to television commercials, are the most common method to include advertising into on-line video or streaming media. Similarly, \u201cpop-up\u201d, banner, and placement advertising have been used concurrently with the playing of an on-line video or streaming media. The on-line advertising industry, however, has not been able to maximize the effectiveness of product placement within on-line video or streaming media.","Prior methods of on-line advertising, as described above, generally reduce the amount of advertising \u201creal estate\u201d available and\/or also directs the audience\/viewer's attention away from the on-line video or streaming media, which is the original point of interest. Available advertising space on internet web pages is limited, thereby, reducing the potential revenue opportunities for on-line publications. Therefore, there is a need to increase advertising potential while maintaining a viewer user's attention.","The descriptions in this section may be pertinent to the description of the novelty disclosed herein as well as the claims that describe the invention. Accordingly, the descriptions of this section, alone or in combination with other disclosure herein, may provide effective support and enablement of the claimed invention.\n\n","A system and method is provided for presenting one or more multimedia pause switching presentations as this term is described in the Description Of Terms section hereinabove. Accordingly, during a presentation of a multimedia pause switching presentation, the corresponding \u201csupplemental information\u201d (e.g. advertising) can be presented to a user in conjunction with providing the corresponding \u201cmedia presentation\u201d of the pause switching presentation as these terms are described in the Description Of Terms section above, wherein, e.g., a content of the supplemental information may be related to the content of the media presentation. In particular, a presentation of the supplemental information (e.g., advertising) may identify a product or service also identified or presented in the media presentation of the pause switching presentation. Moreover, and importantly, the supplemental information may be presented as a supplemental presentation when the media presentation is paused by the user. Furthermore, as described in the Description Of Terms section above, the user can request the media presentation to continue after the pause, e.g., from the same point in the media presentation where it was paused, or, more generally, from a point in the media presentation related to the point where the media presentation was paused. Accordingly, in one embodiment, after the pause of the media presentation, one or more advertising presentations (more generally, supplemental presentations) may be overlaid, or otherwise replace, at least a portion of the media presentation, and such advertising presentations may be presented (and able to accept user input), e.g., until the user provides input for requesting the corresponding media presentation to continue. Thus, the present system and method provides a novel technique for presenting to a user, e.g., a (multi)media presentation having one or more products or services disclosed therein, and immediately upon pausing the (multi)media presentation, presenting supplemental information for, e.g., (a) purchasing such products or services is presented to the user, or (b) providing the user with more in depth information about a topic (e.g., a particular political issue\/candidate, a classroom topic, e.g., natural history or mathematics), or article described in the (multi)media presentation.","Accordingly, the present system and method (also referred to herein as a \u201cpause and buy system\u201d) is useful for network advertising such as on-line Internet advertising.","In one embodiment of the present pause and buy system, the following steps are performed:\n\n","Accordingly, one or more systems and\/or methods for overlaying advertising and purchasing products or service using on-line video or streaming media are described in the embodiments described herein. Moreover, the multimedia player distributed to a user's node (e.g., a computer for accessing the Internet, or another communication device such as a mobile phone or an Apple iTouch\u00ae) for presenting multimedia pause switching presentations may be such that this multimedia player accesses or receives the corresponding media presentation (e.g., on-line video or streaming media) provided by: (i) one or more merchant servers for advertising their products or services, or (ii) network servers for caching and presenting large numbers of multimedia presentations such as net servers of YouTube\u00ae.","In one embodiment of the pause and buy system, the user can temporarily halt (i.e., pause) the media presentation of a pause switching presentation by clicking on, e.g., an icon of a graphical user interface (GUI) associated with an appropriate multimedia player (such as a multimedia player based on Adobe Flash or Microsoft SilverLight). In particular, while watching and\/or listening to the media presentation, a pause icon may be activated for pausing the media presentation and presenting the associated advertising as a supplemental presentation. Accordingly, when the media presentation is paused, the user may make a selection from, e.g., one or more images (thumbnails or larger in size) or icons of the supplemental presentation that appear superimposed over the paused media presentation. The user may then click on (e.g., activate a hyperlink for) one of these images, or icons presented in the overlay for:\n\n","In another aspect of the present disclosure, a merchant may be responsible for the content of a multimedia pause switching presentation. In particular, such a merchant may be responsible for both the corresponding media presentation of the multimedia pause switching presentation (e.g., for identifying the merchant's products or services), as well as, the corresponding supplemental (merchant advertising) information that can be presented when the media presentation is paused. In particular, such a merchant may modify the contents of (or entirely replace) the media data defining the media presentation, wherein such media data may be stored on a network server(s) of the merchant prior to being transmitted to one or more user nodes. Additionally and advantageously, the supplemental information (e.g., advertising information) associated with the corresponding media presentation may also be modified or entirely replaced independently of the media presentation to which it is associated. Accordingly, advertising supplemental information and\/or the corresponding media presentation may be changed to better target a particular population of consumers. Thus, the merchant may provide different supplemental advertisements for the products or services presented in the media presentation. The merchant may also include different options for the viewer user to select in the overlay (or another user interface technique) the products or services shown. For example, such options may include controls for how long information for the product(s) or service(s) will appear in the overlay, controls for purchasing the products or services presented, and\/or controls for obtaining further product or service review information.","In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, a method is provided by the pause and buy system disclosed herein for collecting network traffic information regarding requests for downloading a multimedia pause switching presentation(s), and\/or activating a multimedia pause switching presentation, and\/or pausing the corresponding media presentation for presenting a corresponding its supplemental presentation. The method provides for collecting, among other things, information related to the popularity of a featured product or service shown in the overlay (or other technique for presenting the supplemental information as discussed above), the number of times the corresponding media presentation of a multimedia pause switching presentation has been played, which product(s) or service(s) are selected in comparison to others that are presented in the supplemental presentation(s), how the viewer user(s) searched for additional information, on-line network traffic, and purchasing information, including, whether the viewer user purchased a featured product or service or returned to the corresponding media presentation without purchasing.","Embodiments of the pause and buy system can be implemented as a plurality software\/hardware computational components distributed on a communications network such as the Internet. In particular, in one embodiment of the pause and buy system, this system may include the following components:\n\n","Each client node and management subsystem identified above can be, for example, a personal computer, notebook computer, server computer, mainframe, handheld computer, personal digital assistant, workstation, mobile telephone and the like. Each computing device disclosed herein generally includes a central processing unit, an output device (e.g., a display), and an operator input device. In one embodiment, each such computing device includes a processor coupled to a bus and memory storage coupled to the bus. The memory storage can be volatile or non-volatile, and can include removable storage media. Each such computing device also includes provisions for data input (e.g., touch screen, mouse, keyboard, eye tracking systems, voice recognition, pressure pads, and other human interface devices), and output (e.g., a display, printer, etc.).","In one embodiment, downloads and\/or activations of pause switching presentations by viewer users are recorded at a pause switching presentation serving network (web) site or another network site for collecting data regarding: (i) the downloading and\/or the viewing of such pause switching presentations, and\/or (ii) the determining the efficacy and\/or popularity thereof, e.g., via statistical analysis of the demographics or profiles of viewer user populations performing such downloads and\/or activations. Moreover, upon a pause of the media presentation corresponding to a multimedia pause switching presentation (e.g., via a particular viewer user interaction such as a click on the active corresponding media presentation, or selection of a pause control button, or the like), a series of supplemental informational frames may be presented to the viewer user, wherein such frames may automatically scroll horizontally or vertically on the viewer user's display thereby presenting, e.g., advertising, instructional, and\/or educational information that may be related to the contents of the corresponding media presentation. In particular, the presentation of such supplemental information may overlay a video of the corresponding media presentation when this presentation is paused. Additionally, the presentation of such supplemental information may be recorded at a pause switching presentation serving network (web) site or another network site for collecting data regarding the presenting of the supplemental information, and optionally determining the efficacy and\/or popularity thereof, e.g., via statistical analysis of the demographics or profiles of viewer user populations viewing the supplemental information. Furthermore, since a viewer user may select such supplemental information frames for expanding and thereby obtaining a better view of the contents thereof, upon such selection, additional network transmissions may be provided to, e.g., a pause switching presentation serving network (web) site or another network site for collecting data regarding the viewing of such expanded supplemental information, and optionally determining the efficacy and\/or popularity thereof, e.g., via statistical analysis of the demographics or profiles of viewer user populations viewing of such expanded supplemental information. Note that the above mentioned statistical analyses may be performed via statistical regression techniques, and\/or may use various techniques disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008\/0189408, by Cancel et. al. published Aug. 7, 2008 which is fully incorporated herein by reference. Moreover, such analysis techniques may be used to compare the effectiveness of various advertisements (or advertising campaigns): (i) within the same multimedia pause switching presentation (e.g., compare an effectiveness for advertising viewer user interactions between different ads within the same pause switching presentation), and\/or (ii) between such pause switching presentations (e.g., compare an effectiveness for advertising viewer user interactions for the same or different ads between the pause switching presentations having different corresponding media presentations). In one embodiment, such analysis (or other advertising selection techniques) may be used to push additional advertising to viewer users, e.g., such additional advertising may be presented according to (the types of) advertising presented when a pause switching presentation is paused, and\/or according to (the types of) corresponding media presentations that the viewer users view. Further note that the data collected regarding viewer users interactions related to such pause switching presentations may include viewer user identification, times\/dates of such interactions, an approximate geographical location of the user (e.g., via the technology disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,684,250 fully incorporated herein by reference), as well as the type of such interactions.","Some portions of the disclosure herein are presented in terms of procedures, steps, processing, and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits that can be performed on a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the tools used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others. Accordingly, a procedure, computer executed step, logical operations, process, etc., is generally a sequence of operations or instructions leading to a desired result. In addition, procedures, steps, operations, and processes of the present disclosure are implemented as a sequence of steps running or implemented on a computing system, and interconnected to other machine or hardware units internal or external to the computer system. The implementation of the sequence of steps is dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system implementing the various portions of the present disclosure. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, although not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or electromagnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers or the like. It should be kept in mind, however, that all of these terms, and similar terms, are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise, or as apparent from the disclosure herein, it should be appreciated that throughout the present disclosure, descriptions utilizing terms such as \u201caccessing,\u201d \u201cdetermining,\u201d \u201cproviding,\u201d \u201creceiving,\u201d or the like generally refer to the actions and\/or processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, including an embedded system, that manipulates and transfers data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.","As used herein, \u201cat least one,\u201d \u201cone or more,\u201d and \u201cand\/or\u201d are open-ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example, each of the expressions \u201cat least one of A, B and C,\u201d \u201cat least one of A, B, or C,\u201d \u201cone or more of A, B, and C,\u201d \u201cone or more of A, B, or C\u201d and \u201cA, B, and\/or C\u201d means A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A, B and C together.","Various embodiments of the present disclosure are set forth in the attached figures and in the Detailed Description as provided herein and as embodied by the claims. It should be understood, however, that this Summary does not contain all of the aspects and embodiments of the one or more inventions disclosed herein, is not meant to be limiting or restrictive in any manner, and that the invention(s) as disclosed herein is\/are to be understood to encompass obvious improvements and modifications thereto as may be provided by those having ordinary skill in the art.","Additional advantages of the present disclosure will become readily apparent from the following discussion, particularly when taken together with the accompanying drawings.","A system and method (referred to as a \u201cpause and buy system\u201d herein) for overlaying supplemental presentations (e.g., advertising for purchasing products or services) when a corresponding media presentation is paused is described herein. Such a system and method for overlaying such supplemental information can be used in a wide range of communications and corresponding devices, including, but not limited to, over-the-air television transmissions, Internet communications, cable network communications, mobile device communications (such as occur via smartphones and mobile telephones), audio only devices (wherein the media presentation of a pause switching presentation may be audio only), and others. While the present disclosure provides several embodiments of the pause and buy system, individuals skilled in the art will understand that the embodiments herein are not intended to limit the disclosure to only these embodiments. The present disclosure is intended to cover alternatives, modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by claims below.","Embodiments of the pause and buy system described herein may be provided on various types of computer or communications networks such as: a client-server network, including local area networks (\u201cLAN\u201d), wide area networks (\u201cWAN\u201d), the Internet, and other computer networks that distribute processing and\/or share data among a plurality of nodes, \u201ccloud\u201d computing, or peer-to-peer networks capable of distributing information and needed services. Such a computer or communications network may provide, among other things, access and functionality to services such as, electronic mail (\u201cemail\u201d), file transfer protocol (\u201cFTP\u201d), hypertext transfer protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d) and access to the World Wide Web (\u201cWWW\u201d). In one embodiment of the disclosure, WWW browsing software, commonly known as a \u201cweb browser\u201d (e.g., Mosaic, Internet Explorer, Safari, Chrome, FireFox, etc.) provides for access to Internet information and services provided and\/or distributed by other computers or computer systems. Such browsers allow for the handling, locating, displaying, targeting, and\/or finding information provided by computers and\/or servers connected to the WWW. By selecting a hypertext link or object connected to a hypertext link, a viewer user can view distributed software, documents, or other server content, such as on-line video or streaming media. At least one embodiment of the pause and buy system utilizes an operating environment comprised of distributed computing systems, e.g., computers that are connected through multiple types of communication links.","With reference now to , an illustration is provided of one architecture of a computer network  in one embodiment of the pause and buy system (note, a more detailed alternative embodiment is shown in  described further hereinbelow). A viewer user's computer or client node  accesses the Internet  through a web browser . Through the web browser , the viewer user browses for content of interest, and views such content stored on, and distributed by, at least one computer or web server. Of the content that is distributed to the viewer user's web browser , the viewer user may further select a hyperlink for receiving additional content.","The viewer user selects the on-line video or streaming media of interest by selecting the hyperlink to such multimedia content. As one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, the user's computer or client  may require installation of an appropriate media player to perform the functionality disclosed herein, and in particular, for presenting multimedia pause switching presentations. In one embodiment, such an appropriate media player may be acquired by the viewer user's web browser  sending a request to the multimedia player distribution server  () for a download and installation of a multimedia player  (), whereupon the multimedia player distribution server  responds to the request by distributing an enhanced multimedia player, in accordance with the pause and buy system of the present disclosure, to the computer or client  via the Internet . One having ordinary skill in the art will understand how a viewer user performs a method by which such an enhanced multimedia player (identified as a multimedia player  in , and hereinbelow) is downloaded and installed on the computer . After the multimedia player  is installed, one or more multimedia pause switching presentations may be also transmitted to the computer , e.g., by an on-line media server , and more particularly to the viewer user's web browser  for presentation by the multimedia player . Other web servers  may distribute other information to the web browser, and the multimedia player  as well.","One skilled in the art will understand that the various methods by which the multimedia player  may be distributed to the viewer user's computer . These methods include, for example, distribution of the software by magnetic or optical media, or downloading or receiving the software through HTTP, FTP, or email services. In another embodiment, the software may come pre-installed on the computer , PDA, phone, or other device.","In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the multimedia player  may be installed on a remote application server, wherein the viewer user invokes, through the client web browser , remote calls on the application server. In this embodiment, the viewer user accesses the multimedia player  through a view\/portal in the web browser  to the application server. In this configuration, the multimedia player  functionality is available via the viewer user's web browser , without having to install multimedia player  on the client device.","\u201cPause & Buy\u201d","As disclosed above, the viewer user uses an interactive graphical interface enabled by a web browser  to access an Internet website (e.g., media server  or other servers ) of interest containing hyperlinks to a multimedia pause switching presentation(s). The viewer user selects each multimedia pause switching presentation to view. Upon selection of the multimedia pause switching presentation(s) (e.g., by selecting a hyperlink to such presentations), a request is sent to the on-line media server  for the selected multimedia pause switching presentation(s), and the requested data for the multimedia pause switching presentation(s) is downloaded to the computer .","Referring to , various displays from a multimedia pause switching presentation (this term being described in the Description of Terms section hereinabove) are shown. Upon the viewer user's request to view the corresponding media presentation (e.g., an on-line video or streaming multimedia content) of the multimedia pause switching presentation, data for this multimedia pause switching presentation is distributed to the viewer user's interactive graphical interface (e.g., provided by the web browser ,  and ), and more particularly to the multimedia player  (), by the on-line media server(s)  () or, e.g., server  (). The data for the multimedia pause switching presentation may be provided to the viewer user via a network (Internet) transmission. Each resulting multimedia pause switching presentation (and the transmitted data therefor) includes one or more data associations for associating supplemental information (this term being described in the Description of Terms section hereinabove) with the corresponding media presentation (labeled  in the figures) for the pause switching presentation. Accordingly, when this media presentation is paused, at least a portion of the corresponding supplemental information is presented as one or more advertising displays  (referred to herein as \u201csupplemental presentations\u201d or \u201cproduct presentations\u201d). In particular, when the multimedia player  button  (), or other user interaction technique providing similar functionality, is activated for pausing the media presentation , such supplemental information is presented, wherein this supplemental information may be, e.g., advertising information for providing further information about products or services presented in the media presentation .","The determination of which portions of the corresponding supplemental information to present upon any given pause of the media presentation  may be determined using association data (or simply \u201cassociation\u201d herein) for the pause switching presentation. Note that the association between the media presentation  and the corresponding associated supplemental information may be as simple as associating a collection of one or more supplemental presentations  with the corresponding media presentation , wherein this collection is displayed each time the media presentation  is paused. However, more complex associations may also be included in a multimedia pause switching presentation. For example, a plurality of collections of one or more supplemental presentations  may be associated with the media presentation  of the pause switching presentation (or the data therefor), wherein different collections from the plurality of collections are presented dependent upon when and\/or how the media presentation  is paused. More specifically, a first association may be used to present a first collection when a pause occurs in an initial predetermined portion of the media presentation , and a second association may be used to present a second collection (different from the first collection) of one or more supplemental presentations in a subsequent second portion of the media presentation . Accordingly, different associations may be active for different segments of the media presentation.","Alternatively\/additionally, a plurality of such associations may be concurrently active for a particular segment (or the entire) corresponding media presentation , wherein an active association is an association whose associated supplemental information will be presented if a pause occurs. In one such embodiment, a first plurality of associations may be active in a first segment of the corresponding media presentation  such that all supplemental presentations for each of the active associations is presented each time the media presentation is paused in the first segment. Additionally, a second plurality of associations may be active in a second segment of the corresponding media presentation  such that all supplemental presentations for each of the second plurality of active associations is presented each time the corresponding media presentation is paused in the second segment. Accordingly, if, e.g., the first segment of the media presentation  had content for a particular brand of swim wear and a particular type of surfboard, and the second segment had content for a particular sunscreen product and the swimwear, then: (a) the first plurality of associations may identify both supplemental information\/presentation for the swimwear and additional supplemental information\/presentation for the surfboard, and (b) the second plurality of associations may identify the supplemental information\/presentation for the swimwear and a supplemental information\/presentation for the sunscreen product. Note that such dynamically activated associations may be activated and\/or deactivated according to an elapsed time for the media presentation  (e.g., excluding all elapsed time when the media presentation is paused), or more precisely, activated and\/or deactivated according to a media presentation  time value indicative of what portion of the corresponding media presentation has just been presented, is being currently presented or remains to be presented.","Other complex association functionality is also within the scope of the present disclosure such as dynamically determining the one or more active associations (for identifying corresponding supplemental information\/presentations to present) according to, e.g., both the time of a pause and a selection of a subarea or a feature within the corresponding media presentation . For example, in one embodiment, different associations may be dynamically identified with different presentation subareas of the media presentation  so that when a pause of the media presentation is indicated by a viewer user selecting or clicking on a particular subarea of the media presentation, the association(s) that has been dynamically identified with the particular subarea will be used to identify the supplemental information\/presentation(s) to present for the association(s). For example, for a media presentation  presenting both swimwear and a particular automobile, if a viewer user clicks near the swimwear for pausing the media presentation, a supplemental presentation for the swimwear is presented, and if the viewer user clicks more near the automobile, a supplemental presentation for the automobile is presented. Note, the determination of what \u201cnear\u201d means in the above example may vary. In one embodiment, \u201cnear\u201d may be determined as within a predetermined quadrant of the media presentation , or within a predetermined rectangle of pixels surrounding the image of an object, e.g., the automobile, wherein a viewer user selection click within the rectangle causes the media presentation to pause and the associated supplemental presentation (e.g., for the automobile) to be presented.","Referring now to , the user interface shown in this figure will now be described. The presentation  of  is an initial view of a multimedia pause switching presentation displayed by a multimedia player . The multimedia player  provides components of the presentation  for standard multimedia controls including a conventional play\/pause button , a volume control , as well as forward, reverse, and pause controls. The multimedia player  also provides components for providing a video timeline  for informing the viewer user of the length of the media presentation  for the pause switching presentation, the amount of the media presentation  viewed and at amount of the media presentation remaining to be viewed. The multimedia player  also provides a supplemental presentation button  (also referred to herein as a \u201cpause and buy button\u201d). When the button  is selected, the media presentation  is paused and supplemental information associated with the media presentation is presented, wherein such supplemental information may advertise a product or service of a sponsor (e.g., advertiser) and\/or distributor of the multimedia pause switching presentation. The button  may also provide the viewer user with multimedia player  options (e.g., size of player on the screen, the speed at which the video of a media presentation  will play, various multimedia player skins, etc.).","The multimedia player  of the pause and buy system may be an enhanced version of various multimedia platforms or media players (e.g., Adobe Flash Player, Microsoft SilverLight Player or other multimedia players), wherein the enhancements include providing the functionality of the button , determining active associations, and appropriately presenting supplemental presentation when the button  is activated. In particular, such a multimedia player  preferably makes use of the associations provided by a multimedia pause switching presentation for appropriately switching between presenting the corresponding media presentation, and the corresponding supplemental presentations. Furthermore, the multimedia player  is also able to provide the supplemental presentations as interactive, graphical overlays that may be positioned at least over one portion of the area in which the corresponding media presentation  is being presented. In at least one embodiment of the pause and buy system, such overlays are distributed to the user viewer's web browser  having the multimedia player  as a plug-in or add-on thereto.","Referring to , when the viewer user temporarily halts or pauses the corresponding media presentation for a multimedia pause switching presentation, a graphic overlay in a form of a product panel  () may be displayed over at least one of: (a) a portion of the media presentation , (b) a top edge , (c) a bottom edge , (d) a first lateral edge , and (e) a second lateral edge . The product panel  shown in  displays the supplemental presentations, which may be a plurality advertising product presentations  (i.e., , , , and in ), wherein each such advertising product presentations displays a particular product, e.g., shown in the corresponding media presentation . In at least one embodiment of the pause and buy system, all of the product panel  resides within the edges - of the corresponding media presentation . Alternatively\/additionally, the product panel  may display a selection of thumbnail images or icons of all the products (or services) for the supplemental presentations which may be, e.g., superimposed over at least a portion of the halted or paused corresponding media presentation . Note, to simplify the description hereinbelow, the terms \u201cproduct\u201d, \u201cproducts\u201d and \u201cproduct(s)\u201d are to be interpreted as being synonymous, respectively, with the terms \u201cproduct or service\u201d, \u201cproduct(s) or service(s)\u201d, and \u201cproducts or services\u201d.","In at least one embodiment of the multimedia player , the presentation  therefor includes scroll controls  and  () is located in the product panel  to allow the viewer user to see and scroll through all the featured products within the product panel . More specifically, clicking on scroll control  allows the viewer user to shift the currently displayed product presentations  to the right bringing into view another product presentation  in the leftmost product presentation space. Additionally, clicking on scroll control  allows the viewer user to shift the currently displayed product presentations  to the left bringing into view another product presentation  in the rightmost product presentation space. In the embodiment of the pause and buy system of , there are primary and secondary product presentation spaces, wherein the primary product presentation space (corresponding to product presentation ) may be the most prominent and\/or in the center of the product panel . Moreover, the secondary product presentation spaces (corresponding to product presentations , , and ) provides advertising that is displayed less prominently and\/or in a less central position and\/or with reduced clarity, detail or color. For example, primary product presentation space  is located at the center of the product panel , with secondary product display space  that is adjacent to the primary product display space .","In at least one embodiment of the pause and buy system, the viewer user may select a thumbnail image or icon of a product presentation , and additional supplemental information related to the product presentation is provided within the overlay as an expanded product panel  (), or a new tab or window in the web browser  (). In at least one embodiment, the expanded product panel  is also displayed over at least a portion of the corresponding media presentation . In at least one of the embodiment of the pause and buy system, the expanded product panel  displays additional information  about the product selected, including, for example, (a) reviews of the product by other individuals, (b) purchasing information, and links to other static and dynamic WWW content, (c) other pictures or images of the product, (d) additional videos of the product, (e) hyperlinks to other web sites, (f) news alerts related to the product, (g) real simple syndication (\u201cRSS\u201d) feeds related to the product, (h) bookmarks or relevant universal resource identifiers (\u201cURI\u201d) and locations (\u201cURL\u201d) on the WWW related thereto, and (i) discounts or coupons related to the product or to the delivery or purchase of the product.","As one skilled in the art will appreciate, the content and services displayed in the expanded product panel  may be distributed by more than one web server  in  (or various servers , , or  of  described hereinbelow) on the computer network . In at least an embodiment of the pause and buy system, the expanded product panel  also allows connectivity or access to other services such as, for example, a \u201cshopping cart\u201d, a \u201cwish list\u201d, a purchasing link , a presentation customization link , an e-commerce service (e.g., a product procurement link, or purchase order link), a physical shipping and\/or delivery network, financial transaction institutions, blogging applications, a link to customize the selected product , and Internet-based auction systems.","Examples of corresponding media presentations that may have related advertising as supplemental presentations include media presentations of athletes or sporting events, instructional media presentations (do-it-yourself, construction, renovation, repair, cooking, educational, etc.), fashion show media presentations, commercials of any product, news casts, television shows, movies, movie trailers, adult entertainment, and personal or home videos. By way of example and not limitation, typical situations where there may be a direct correlation between such a media presentation and advertising may be provided by manufacturers, distributors, and sellers of any product where such entities showcase any video containing their product(s) in a product panel . For example, television shows that focus on financial markets, such as stocks and other commodities, can be enhanced by corresponding supplemental presentations, wherein, instead of featuring physical products in the product panel  and\/or extended product panels , stocks as discussed in the corresponding media presentation can be featured in the supplemental presentations. Moreover, the extended product panel  for such a multimedia pause switching presentation may include dynamic information (such as real-time feeds of the current price of the stock, RSS, tickers, marquees etc.), static information (such as hyperlinks to other web sites), and trading and purchasing information.","In at least one embodiment of the pause and buy system, a product panel  (e.g., ) is generated by a viewer user initiated action, where thereafter the corresponding media presentation is not paused by the multimedia player , and accordingly the media presentation continues to play. In at least one embodiment of the pause and buy system, a product panel  is generated by a viewer user initiated action, where thereafter the corresponding media presentation is not paused or halted, and accordingly continues to play, but wherein after the product panel  is closed, the corresponding media presentation returns to the portion of the corresponding media presentation that corresponds to the time when the user initiated action occurred.","In another aspect of the present disclosure, the supplemental information for a product panel  is not distributed with the media presentation of a multimedia pause switching presentation. Instead, the corresponding supplemental information (or portions thereof) are distributed to the client node  as requested by the multimedia player  and\/or the viewer user. Moreover, instead of the multimedia player  providing a product panel  as described above, an external product panel in the form of a graphical overlay or pop-up window may be provided which functions in substantially the same way as the product panel within the multimedia player .","\u201cWidget\u201d\/\u201cGadget\u201d Multimedia Player","An enhanced multimedia player for the pause and buy system can operate as a desktop application, commonly known as a \u201cwidget\u201d or \u201cgadget\u201d, on the viewer user's computer or network node . This embodiment of the enhanced multimedia player works in conjunction with a viewer user's on-line account providing the viewer user with the ability to manage (e.g., select, group, and\/or categorize) multimedia pause switching presentations that reside at a network server. Maintenance of a viewer user's account is provided in the discussion below of .","Referring now to , additional presentations from an enhanced multimedia player are shown, wherein the multimedia player may be a \u201cgadget\u201d application  on, e.g., a Microsoft Windows Vista\u2122 desktop as one skilled in the art will understand. However, prior to describing these figures, some background discussion on gadgets is now presented. Gadgets are easy-to-use mini programs that reside on one's desktop that give a user information at a glance and may provide easy access to frequently used tools. Gadgets are mini applications with a variety of possible uses. They can connect to web services to deliver business data, weather information, news updates, traffic maps, Internet radio streams, and even slide shows of online photo albums. Gadgets can also integrate with other programs to provide streamlined interaction. For example, a gadget can provide an at-a-glance view of all your online instant messaging contacts, the day view from a calendar, or an easy way to control a multimedia player. Gadgets can also have any number of dedicated purposes including, for example, calculators, games and sticky notes.","The gadget  may sit with other gadgets  () on the desktop of the computer . The gadget  provides for the display of: (a) a visual list  of available or newly distributed (pushed) multimedia pause switching presentations (e.g., multimedia pause switching presentations that have yet to be viewed), (b) controls  for presenting a comprehensive list of available multimedia pause switching presentations that have been identified by the viewer user for later viewing, (c) a pause and buy button  that provides information on the available multimedia pause switching presentations (e.g., the number of such presentations available) for the gadget . Other user adjustable features available for gadget  may be controls for e.g., varying the size of the display of the gadget , varying the rate of updates sent to the gadget, varying the size of and speed of on-line video or streaming media played, varying the storage limits for caching media data, due to, e.g., bandwidth restrictions, etc.","In the embodiment of the pause and buy system using the gadget  as the enhanced multimedia player (shown in ), the viewer user may have previously identified certain multimedia pause switching presentations of interest which reside on one or more network servers, and such identification may be stored with the viewer user's on-line account on the server, or in a temporary\/local area (e.g., as session cookies) on the viewer user's computer . The enhanced multimedia player  of  is shown presenting the corresponding media presentation  for a multimedia pause switching presentation.  further shows a \u201cTAG IT\u201d button  which when activated allows the viewer user to tag products of interest and create a corresponding tagged product list while the corresponding media presentation  is being presented The purpose of tagging products of interest and creating a tagged product list is to create a list of products that may later be reviewed by the viewer user. As shown in , this embodiment of the pause and buy system operates and functions in other manners similar to the multimedia player  disclosed above in reference to .  shows the media presentation  temporarily halted whereby a product panel  appears. Similar to previous pause and buy system embodiments discussed, once a product is selected, an expanded product panel  appears as depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 3E","b":["350","320","320","300","352","353","355","357","359","350","357","354","356","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 3F","FIG. 3A"],"b":["300","300","370","312"]},"Merchant Server Management System\/Pause and Buy Server","Referring now to , in another aspect of the present disclosure, an interface is shown in these figures for a merchant server management system , , of the pause and buy system. The interface presentation page of  allows a merchant to access functionality for performing the following tasks: (a) create a merchant user account for the pause and buy system (e.g., an account for the service broker , , described hereinbelow), (b) manage product presentations that can be displayed in the product and extended product panels  and , and (c) manage the multimedia pause switching presentations that can be played with the multimedia player  (or with the gadget ; note, hereinbelow, the term \u201cmultimedia player \u201d will be used to identify the gadget  embodiment as well unless specifically noted otherwise). Accordingly, a merchant user may be a person, or other agent designated by a merchant to act on behalf of the merchant, for providing media data and associated supplemental information (as described in the Description of Terms section hereinabove) for use with the pause and buy system disclosed herein. As one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, a merchant user may have a merchant user account that identifies the user by a username. To access the merchant user account and the interface pages referred to in , the merchant user may need to login to the service broker  by authenticating himself with a password or other credentials. The merchant interfaces allow a merchant to select multimedia pause switching presentations that can then be played with the multimedia player . The merchant product management system  providing the interface pages of  allows the merchant to create and manage the product panel  (e.g., ), and multimedia player  characteristics presented to the viewer user.","The merchant is able to manage account information related to the accessibility and availability of multimedia pause switching presentations to be displayed in the multimedia player , as well as the look and feel of the multimedia player  through a merchant product management system interface. The merchant product management system interface page provides the merchant with the following links: (a) a link  to reports of statistical data related to the number of users viewing a particular multimedia pause switching presentation, (b) a link  related to the number of active multimedia pause switching presentations the merchant has selected to be available to viewer users, (c) a link  to a product content library  (included in, or be identical with, the item data (database)  for the merchant server , , described below), wherein this library identifies the products the merchant has available to be presented in the product panel  or . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the interface pages of  can be used to present and\/or manage additional aspects of the pause and buy system including, for example, (a) the number of views in which a particular product that has been featured in a product panel  or , (b) the total number of videos that have been played including, for example, the bandwidth that the total number of videos occupy, (c) the specific requests originating from unique internet protocol addresses to view on-line or streaming media content through an embodiment of the pause and buy system, and (d) information related to the viewer's decisions on further viewing or ending the process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","450","460"],"i":"b ","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":["(a) product presentations, wherein the permissions are: full (e.g., permission to change product presentations in any way that is available in the item data (database)  of ), add (e.g., permission to add new product presentations to the item data (database) ), edit (e.g., permission to edit existing product presentations in the item data (database) ), and delete (e.g., permission to delete product presentations from the item data (database) );","(b) video presentations, wherein the permissions are: full (e.g., full permission to change, in any way that is available the videos in the streaming media (database) , ), add (e.g., permission to add a new video), edit (i.e., permission to edit an existing video), and delete (e.g., permission to delete an existing video);","(c) characteristics of the association of one or more product supplemental presentations to be presented with a corresponding media presentation (such combinations identified as \u201cplayers\u201d in ), wherein the permissions are: full (e.g., permission to change each of the merchant specific multimedia pause switching presentations  in any way that is available), add (e.g., permission to add new multimedia pause switching presentation), edit (e.g., permission to edit existing multimedia pause switching presentations), and delete (i.e., permission to delete multimedia pause switching presentations); and","(d) reporting, wherein the terms full, view, and delete\/reset performing these reports task, wherein these term have the following respective meanings","full: can generate any report capable of being generated,","view: view any report capable of being generated from predetermined client approved report template,","delete\/reset: delete a report or data related thereto.\n\nThe merchant user permissions\/preferences  may also control for the generation and viewing of reports, e.g., user permissions for generating, viewing, deleting and\/or resetting reports.\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","470","1144","1140","470","472","474","476"],"i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 4D","b":["400","480","114","480","1144","480"],"i":"d"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 4E","FIG. 11","FIG. 4E","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","114","490","492","494","496","496","498","1000"],"i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 4F","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","500","502","510","520","522"],"i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 4G","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","530","540","550","560","114"],"i":"g "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIG. 4H","FIG. 11"],"b":["400","1195","571","572","573","574","575","574","250","575","114"],"i":"h "},"One having skill in the art will understand that aspects of the merchant server management interface () of the pause and buy system may be implemented by a web server  () that is in communication with the client nodes .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIGS. 2A-2C","FIG. 13"],"b":["580","114","114","110","584","592","594","580","588","230","1300","588"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["580","600","250","580","650","651","652","653","612","616","620","600","604","608","260","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2C"],"b":["580","700","280","700","706","704","708","712","292","294"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3A","FIGS. 3A-3F","FIG. 3A"],"b":["110","200","114","800","300","812","312","812"]},"As in the foregoing description, the viewer user may select a \u201cTAG IT\u201d control  (similar to the control  of ) to interact with aspects of the gadget  as described with reference to . This \u201cTAG IT\u201d control  may be used to provide a viewer user with, for example, keywords related to: (i) a product displayed in an overlay, and\/or (ii) a product or service shown in a corresponding media presentation . On the server node  (), such keywords may be associated with a viewer user account established by the viewer user, and could be used to create an account profile and\/or to tailor supplemental presentations (e.g., advertisements) to the viewer user, and\/or could be used in targeted marketing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 2B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["250","114","800","250","908","912","260","261","115","270","250","114","115","250","270","270","920","924"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0114"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"],"b":["1000","1000","1000","130","140","150"]},"The server  includes (or accesses) a number of databases (or portions of a database). Such databases may have a relational, object oriented, hierarchical or other architecture, and each such database has a corresponding database management system as one skilled in the art will understand. Since relational database architectures are most common, a brief discussion regarding relational database technology is provided as follows. Relational database tables may refer to regions of electronic media allocated to contain related data elements or information as in a database table and in a relational model for database management. A database table conceptually is a set of data elements (values) that is preferably organized using a model of vertical columns (which are identified by their name) and horizontal rows. A table preferably has a specified number of columns, but can have any number of rows. Each row is identified by the values appearing in a particular column subset which has been identified as a candidate key. In addition to the actual data rows, tables generally have associated with them some meta-information, such as constraints on the table or on the values within particular columns. The data in a table do not have to be physically stored in the database. Instead, the data for a table can be distributed in a plurality of tables or other databases. Views may be also relational tables, but their data may be calculated at query time.","Referring again to , the administrative tables  may include one or more tables that store data used, for example, for the administration of viewer user data and\/or merchant user data related to the pause and buy application. Such information may include, for example: (a) username and password data for merchant users who access the pause and buy system, e.g., for identifying\/registering various pause switching presentations, (b) a merchant user's email address, phone number, postal address, security information corresponding to the merchant user's account (e.g., security question, security answer), (c) a merchant's subscription limits (e.g., a limit to the number of pause switching presentations that may be registered with the pause and buy system for presentation to viewer users, (d) a limit to the number of product presentations that may be associated with a corresponding media presentation), (e) a merchant user's permissions (e.g., view, add, edit, delete within the administrative tables ), and (f) a merchant user's access area and permissions (as described in . The tables  may be used to administer viewer user profiles for viewer users who use the pause and buy system. In this regard, the tables  may contain or provided access to: (a) viewer user usernames and passwords, (b) viewer users email addresses, (c) viewer user addresses, (d) viewer user TAG IT data, (e) and\/or viewer user keyword preferences, wherein such keyword preferences for a viewer user are used identify additional pause switching presentations which the pause and buy system may notify the viewer user thereof, (f) type and\/or version of the media player  being used by the viewer user. In one embodiment, a viewer user's keyword preferences may contain one or more keywords that correspond to types of products (e.g., cars, home furnishings, electronics, etc.), and\/or types of activities (e.g., hiking, camping, auto racing, etc.), and\/or videos that may be of interest to the viewer user.","The administrative tables  may include (or provide access to) data profiling viewer users and\/or merchants. Regarding profiles for viewer users, such profiles may be include information that both benefit the viewer users and the merchants supplying pause switching presentations. In addition to viewer user identification (e.g., username and password), corresponding TAG IT data and the keyword preferences data described above, viewer user profiles may include:\n\n","The product library  () may include one or more tables that contain data related to products (as described above for ) or presentations  that may be displayed and\/or referenced by a product panel  or an expanded product panel  (FIG. C). This data may include, for example, (a) product specification information (or a network link\/address thereto), (b) product description (or a network link\/address thereto), (c) product sizing information (or a network link\/address thereto), (d) product purchasing links, (e) links to customer comments for the product, (f) product options such as product colors (or a network link\/address thereto), and\/or (g) product images (or a network link\/address thereto).","In one embodiment of the pause and buy system, the product library  may be used to identify a product that a viewer user has expressed an interest in, but cannot provide sufficient information to identify the product. For example, a viewer user may pause a media presentation , and request that the current display of the paused media presentation be transmitted to the pause and buy system (e.g., server ) for requesting information on a product in the display and\/or requesting information on products like one shown in the display. In one embodiment, the viewer user may provide additional information to associate with the image such as: (i) an identification of one or more predetermined classifications of the product, and (ii) text further describing the product. Additionally\/alternatively, the viewer user may be provided with the ability to identify the product directly on the image, e.g., via marking up the image by circling the product or providing one or more arrows pointing to the product. Accordingly, once such a viewer user request is received (e.g., by the server ), any classifications of the product by the viewer user may be used to identify the likely products, and route the viewer user's request to merchants that provide products in the classifications identified by the viewer user, and if such a merchant has a product fitting the viewer user's request, the merchant can respond to the viewer user with appropriate product information.","The streaming video or media library  of  may include one or more tables that contain data related to streaming video or media files (as described above for ). This data may include for example, (i) a link (e.g., a network address) to each streaming video or media file on the world wide web (or locally if available to the pause and buy system) that has been identified as a corresponding media presentation for a pause switching presentation, (ii) viewing aspect ratios of such streaming video or media files (e.g., 16:9 or 4:3), (iii) the resolution of the corresponding media presentations  for such streaming video or media files, (iv) the sample rates of the corresponding media presentations, and optionally (v) descriptions of the contents of the corresponding media presentations  presented to the viewer users.","The multimedia pause switching presentation library  may include one or more tables for defining each multimedia pause switching presentation, and in particular, data for identifying each association for such pause switching presentations. Accordingly, for a pause switching presentation, the corresponding association data of the library  identifies:\n\n","The server node  may also access a resource referred to as a user profile log and marketing data , which may include one or more database tables having data that records historical and marketing data, wherein such data can be data mined to produce useful information, for example, to model consumer markets, model consumer preferences, establish target markets, determine efficacy of other factors, and track use for billing purposes. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that in the embodiments presented herein and in any improvements and modifications to the embodiments thereon, the interactions of the viewer user with the widget or gadget , the multimedia player  and\/or the overlay of product presentations  may be logged or tracked, for example, for marketing, data mining and cost recovery purposes.","The server  may optionally include an association generation module  for generating associations, e.g., generating such associations for the pause switching presentations when requests for the pause switching presentations are requested. Such associations have been discussed in various passages hereinabove. The high level steps for generating an association for a particular pause switching presentation may be:\n\n","The server node  includes at least one component that communicates with other components and\/or nodes through at least one network  (). The multimedia presentation publication engine  may be one such component, wherein this component may be an agent or process for providing details regarding multimedia pause switching presentations to other network components such as the multimedia presentation engine  ( described hereinbelow). In particular, the publication engine  may be invoked by the syndication engine  (described below) of the service broker  to retrieve a pause switching presentation. Alternatively\/additionally, the publication engine  may push pause switching presentations to the syndication engine  of the service broker  (also described hereinbelow).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["110","114","110","1000","1160","1140","1150","1180","120","1190","1000","1180"]},"In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the functionality of the service broker node  may be provided by the server node , instead of as a separate standalone node. The interaction between client , server node  and service broker  may be characterized as a Web Services system. Web services, provided by such a web services system, are applications that are capable of interoperating with other applications over a communications network, such as a network . Such web services frequently include a web application programming interface (API) that can be accessed over a network and executed on a remote system hosting the requested service. Web services are typically based on standards or protocols such as HTTP, XML, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI. Methods for providing such web services are well known in the art, and one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the implementation of a web service. As shown in , the client  invokes the multimedia presentation syndication engine  on the service broker  as a web service. When activated by the client  for obtaining a pause switching presentation, the syndication engine  may reference a record  of the multimedia library  to determine how to interact with the multimedia player ; the syndication engine  may directly serve the pause switching presentation to the client node  for presentation on the multimedia player . Additionally\/alternatively, the syndication engine  may instruct the multimedia player  to retrieve certain data from a merchant server  related to product presentation (database)  and\/or streaming media (database) , wherein corresponding items from each of these databases are used to provide a pause switching presentation having these items to the client node . Thus, in one embodiment the engine  may provide the multimedia player  with data providing the association data for a pause switching presentation, and the actual corresponding media presentation and supplemental information is obtained from, e.g., the merchant server .","In one embodiment, the syndication engine  may instruct the multimedia player  to contact a third party vendor server  for the multimedia pause switching presentation.","The syndication engine  may be also in communication with a logging module  that may reside on the service broker  or remotely on the server node . As one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, the logging module  may be invoked by the multimedia presentation syndication engine  and\/or by the multimedia player  to record data in the user profile log  of the server node . When invoked, the syndication engine  may also directly communicate with components of the server node  such as, for example, the user profile log  to create, read, update or delete user-specific data and TAG IT data. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the server , web server , service broker  and client  are conceptual elements that may exist on a single machine, or be distributed among multiple systems. Additionally, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the corresponding elements within the server , web server , service broker  and client  may further be consolidated or distributed among multiple systems. As used herein, the term \u201cnode\u201d refers only to the respective conceptual elements, and not to a physical termination point or system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0144"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 2A-2C"],"b":["1202","1164","1160","110","112","1204","1208","110","1164","1164","1210","110","1164","114","1140","1164","110","114","1211","1164","1212","114","115","115","110"]},"In step , the multimedia player  detects a termination or pause of the media presentation . Termination of the media presentation  as used herein means, for example, viewer user selection to terminate play, completion of the media presentation , or closure of the media player . Upon termination, the process of  returns to the wait state of step . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, activation of the pause function (e.g., provided by the play\/pause buttons  and , respectively, in ) may include, for example, the viewer user: (a) selecting an actual pause button, (b) selecting, by a user click or tap, any location on the multimedia player  area that is not associated with a specific control, (c) selecting a portion of the web browser  outside the multimedia player  (e.g., shifting focus off of the multimedia player), or (d) selecting a button designated to invoke pause of the media.","In the decision step , a determination is made as to whether the media presentation  is terminated, or the pause and buy button  (e.g., ) has been activated. If it is determined that the media presentation  has terminated or the viewer user has selected a termination of the media presentation, then the process of  returns to the start of the present flowchart. If, on the other hand, it is determined that the pause and buy button\/control  (or , ) is activated, then step  is performed. In step , the following tasks are performed: (a) the media presentation  is paused, (b) the frame or time sequence of the paused media presentation  is saved, and (c) supplemental information related to media presentation  is presented. More precisely, a product panel  is presented having product presentations displayed therein. In general, it is desirable for product presentations to relate to the content, items, techniques or services identified in the paused media presentation . However, this is not mandatory or required. For some multimedia pause switching presentations, the corresponding presentation, the corresponding supplemental information may not identify a product herein. For example, a media presentation  may be a video of an African safari, and the corresponding product presentations may be advertisements for vacations to Africa or a resort in Africa which is not identified or shown in the media presentation .","The presenting of supplemental information is described in more detail in the pause and buy process  of . In one embodiment, the supplemental information presented in the pause and buy process  may use additional information in addition to or instead of the content (e.g., items\/products, techniques and\/or services identified or shown) in the corresponding media presentation . For example, other factors that may be used (instead or in addition to the media presentation  content) to identify items\/products, techniques and\/or services to be presented in the supplemental information include: (a) the viewer user's geographical location, (b) the network communication method (e.g., computer network, cellular network), (c) the type or version of multimedia player , (d) the viewer user's keyword preferences, and\/or (e) viewer user profile information stored in the administrative tables  (). Additionally, the supplemental information may be determined according to promotions, product inventories, random product presentation, and\/or the viewer user's profile on, e.g., the server . Accordingly, the supplemental information associated with the media presentation  of a multimedia pause switching presentation may be such that the product presentations  of the supplemental information are dynamically loaded on the client node  from a network site (e.g., server , , , , ,  or the service broker ) in a separate network transmission from the corresponding media presentation. Accordingly, the association data for the pause switching presentation may include network addresses for obtaining the product presentations  according to viewer user specific criteria and\/or merchant specific criteria, and such network addresses (or their product presentation target data) can be varied according to such viewer user or merchant specific criteria.","The dynamic customization of the product presentations  for a pause switching presentation according to viewer user and\/or merchant specific criteria may be an important aspect of some embodiments of the pause and buy system since this allows both better targeting of product presentations  to receptive viewer users, and provides substantial flexibility to the merchants in presenting various versions of their products to the viewer users. Note that there are numerous techniques for transmitting the three major portions of a multimedia pause switching presentation to viewer users, and some have been described above. However, for greater clarity, such techniques are further listed as follows:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0152"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 2B and 6"],"b":["1300","1300","1304","115","110","1308","114","110","1164","114","1140","1150","250","600","115","1312","110","250","600","1316","270","115","270","114"]},"If it is determined that the viewer user has selected the control to request additional information about an item, procedure or service displayed in a product presentation , the multimedia player  may retrieve from the network , in step , additional information corresponding to the item, procedure or service selected by the viewer user. In step , the multimedia player  in the client node  retrieves or issues a request to, e.g., the syndication engine  for additional information that corresponds to the item, procedure or service displayed in the overlay and subsequently selected by the viewer user. Alternatively, the multimedia player  may, based on the multimedia pause switching presentation information downloaded, retrieve or issue a request directly to a merchant server  or third party vendor server  to obtain the additional information. The determination is then made at step  whether the retrieved data is to be presented within the existing overlay (i.e., to replace the existing overlay content as, for example, the expanded product panels  and  in ). If so, then the process returns to step , where the retrieved data is presented at the client node  for presentation in an existing overlay. If, on the other hand, the retrieved data is not to be presented within the existing overlay, the existing overlay may, in some embodiments, be removed in step , and the retrieved data is presented otherwise by the multimedia player , e.g., an additional overlay may be presented, or a new interface window may be instanced (e.g., a pop up window), or an additional instance of a multimedia player  may be spawned. The process then returns to step .","If it is determined that the viewer user has made the selection, in step , of a control to close the overlay, or otherwise resume the corresponding media presentation, the overlay is removed in step . In step , if a previous or underlying overlay does not exist for presentment, then the pause and buy process  ends at step . If, however, a previous or underlying overlay does exist for presentment, then the previous overlay data is presented to the client node  and the process returns to step .","If it is determined that the viewer user has made the selection, in step , of navigation controls related to the overlay or to items contained therein (e.g., similar to the controls ,  and  in ), then in step , the multimedia player  in the client node  optionally retrieves from the syndication engine , the merchant server  or a third party vendor server , the additional information that corresponds to the data related to the item, procedure or service that corresponds to the viewer user's selection. In an alternative embodiment of the present disclosure, the data related to the item, procedure or service may, for example, exist locally or have been previously buffered at the client node . The additional information is then presented on the client node  in step  as, for example, a product panel  and  in .","\u201cPause & Brief\u201d","In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the supplemental information that is presented (as, e.g., overlay data) may not be advertisement or other promotional information, but instead be documents or other interactive media or interfaces including, for example, a word processing document, a spreadsheet, a presentation, in a portable document format or other data file. Moreover, a viewer users may be able to open, edit and\/or view data in such documents during the presentation of the corresponding media presentation.","\u201cVideo-in-Video\u201d","In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the supplemental information that is presented may include supplemental media (video or audio) data streams. In this embodiment, a viewer user may be able to select the pause and buy process  and access vignettes that branch from the primary pause switching presentation to see\/hear various supplemental presentations.","\u201cGaming\u201d","In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the pause and buy system may be implemented in a gaming application. In such an embodiment, the game may be paused or suspended, and supplemental information may be presented to the viewer user, e.g., as overlay data, that allows the viewer user to, for example, use the gaming controls or other user interface controls to navigate or perform selections of, e.g., advertising. The above embodiment may be implemented in a game setting wherein there exist product placement or advertisements within the game sequences or graphics, and a pause of the game provides additional advertising information regarding, e.g., a current scene of the game.","In yet another embodiment of the pause and buy system, the system may be implemented as part of a role playing game or virtual world application. In such an embodiment, the game may not need to be paused or suspended for an overlay to be presented to the viewer user. The overlay may be presented when the game character approaches or interacts with a product placement or advertisement within the gaming sequence or graphics; or when the game character enters a particular region of the playing area; or when the viewer user selects a control or sequence of controls. In this embodiment, the viewer user may, for example, interact directly with overlay display of the supplemental information (e.g., an overlay) as in other embodiments, or the viewer user may use the game character to indirectly interact with the overlay (e.g., as in virtual world of Second Life\u00ae).","The present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is, therefore, indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.","The one or more present inventions, in various embodiments, include components, methods, processes, systems and\/or apparatus substantially as depicted and described herein, including various embodiments, subcombinations, and subsets thereof. Those having ordinary skill in the art will understand how to make and use the present invention after understanding the present disclosure.","The present invention, in various embodiments, includes providing devices and processes in the absence of items not depicted and\/or described herein or in various embodiments hereof, including in the absence of such items as may have been used in previous devices or processes, e.g., for improving performance, achieving ease and\/or reducing cost of implementation.","The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the invention to the form or forms disclosed herein. In the foregoing Detailed Description for example, various features of the invention are grouped together in one or more embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment of the invention.","Moreover, though the description of the invention has included description of one or more embodiments and certain variations and modifications, other variations and modifications are within the scope of the invention, e.g., as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art, after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted, including alternate, interchangeable and\/or equivalent structures, functions, ranges or steps to those claimed, whether or not such alternate, interchangeable and\/or equivalent structures, functions, ranges or steps are disclosed herein, and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.","To further clarify the above and other advantages and features of the present disclosure, it is appreciated that the accompanying drawings depict only typical embodiments of the disclosure and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope. The disclosure will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
