---
title: Method and apparatus for providing a scalable service platform using a network cache
abstract: An approach is provided for building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. An access control server platform determines a first authorization key for a user and a second authorization key for a resource, and then encrypts the resource with the second authorization key, and encrypts the second authorization key with the first authorization key. The access control server platform initiates distribution of the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource over a network. The access control server platform further initiates caching the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource that meets a predefined threshold value (e.g., a data size, an access frequency, a modification frequency, or an auditing requirement) in a cache in the network, and initiates transmission of the cached and encrypted second authorization key with the cached and encrypted resource from the cache to at least one authorized entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458799&OS=08458799&RS=08458799
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08458799
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20090630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SOME EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","DESCRIPTION SOME EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Service providers (e.g., wireless, cellular, etc.) and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by, for example, providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been in the manner access to data is controlled. As content (e.g., photos and videos) sharing continues to grow in popularity, service providers must support a large amount of users and associated requests for such content.","According to one embodiment, a method comprises determining a first authorization key for a user and a second authorization key for a resource. The method also comprises encrypting the resource with the second authorization key, and encrypting the second authorization key with the first authorization key. The method further comprises initiating distribution of the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource over a network. The method further comprises initiating caching the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource in a cache in the network, and initiating transmission of the cached and encrypted second authorization key with the cached and encrypted resource from the cache to at least one authorized entity.","According to another embodiment, an apparatus comprising at least one processor, and at least one memory including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to determine a first authorization key for a user and a second authorization key for a resource. The apparatus is also caused to encrypt the resource with the second authorization key, and to encrypt the second authorization key with the first authorization key. The apparatus is further caused to initiate distribution of the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource over a network. The apparatus is further caused to initiate caching the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource in a cache in the network, and initiate transmission of the cached and encrypted second authorization key with the cached and encrypted resource from the cache to at least one authorized entity.","According to another embodiment, a computer-readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to determine a first authorization key for a user and a second authorization key for a resource. The apparatus is also caused to encrypt the resource with the second authorization key, and to encrypt the second authorization key with the first authorization key. The apparatus is further caused to initiate distribution of the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource over a network. The apparatus is further caused to initiate caching the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource in a cache in the network, and initiate transmission of the cached and encrypted second authorization key with the cached and encrypted resource from the cache to at least one authorized entity.","According to another embodiment, an apparatus comprises means for determining a first authorization key for a user and a second authorization key for a resource. The apparatus also comprises means for encrypting the resource with the second authorization key, and encrypting the second authorization key with the first authorization key. The apparatus further comprises means for initiating distribution of the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource over a network. The apparatus further comprises means for initiating caching the encrypted second authorization key with the encrypted resource in a cache in the network, and initiating transmission of the cached and encrypted second authorization key with the cached and encrypted resource from the cache to at least one authorized entity.","Still other aspects, features, and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description, simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations, including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.","A method and apparatus for building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache are disclosed. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.","As used herein, the term \u201cresource\u201d refers to data. A resource is a piece of data that a service provides to its users or allows its user to share. Although various embodiments are described with respect to an access control application. It is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other platforms or services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"However, this approach is inadequate for consumer internet services, where user data are made available only to authorized users. There are many proprietary systems that support access control on, for example, hypertext transfer protocol (http) caches\/proxies. These approaches are not ideal, in that different backend servers\/services would have different logic for implementing access control. In this environment, synchronizing the http caches\/proxies is impractical in terms of cost. For example, a typical backend server utilized in content sharing services can have hundreds of millions of entries in its user database, such that replication of such database to various caches\/proxies while maintaining data synchronization is an extremely difficult task.","To address this problem, a system  of  introduces the capability to build a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. With proper caching, data sharing requests from users do not actually reach their intended servers; instead, the requests are fulfilled by a cache located somewhere along the path between the users and the server.","As shown in , the system  comprises a user equipment (UE)  having connectivity to an access control services platform , a social network service platform , and a web service platform via a communication network . A network cache  can be located anywhere between the UE  and a backend server , which can include server side accelerators, content delivery networks, organizational http proxies, client side browser caches, etc. According to certain embodiments, the network cache  can be used as public cache that is generally accessible over a public data network, such as the global Internet.","By way of example, the communication network  of system  includes one or more networks such as a data network (not shown), a wireless network (not shown), a telephony network (not shown), or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), a public data network (e.g., the Internet), or any other suitable packet-switched network, such as a commercially owned, proprietary packet-switched network, e.g., a proprietary cable or fiber-optic network. In addition, the wireless network may be, for example, a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution (EDGE), general packet radio service (GPRS), global system for mobile communications (GSM), Internet protocol multimedia subsystem (IMS), universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS), etc., as well as any other suitable wireless medium, e.g., microwave access (WiMAX), Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks, code division multiple access (CDMA), wireless fidelity (WiFi), satellite, mobile ad-hoc network (MANET), and the like.","The UE  is any type of mobile terminal, fixed terminal, or portable terminal including a mobile handset, station, unit, device, multimedia tablet, Internet node, communicator, desktop computer, laptop computer, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE  can support any type of interface to the user (such as \u201cwearable\u201d circuitry, etc.).","This system  builds a scalable service platform by using encryption for authentication, authorization and data protection. According to certain embodiments, the system  can be adapted to provide representational state transfer (REST) services and other styles of internet services. Representational state transfer (REST) is a style of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web. As such, it is more than a method for building \u201cweb services.\u201d REST refers to a collection of network architecture principles that outline how resources are defined and addressed, and can include any simple interface that transmits domain-specific data over http, without an additional messaging layer such as SOAP or session tracking via http cookies.","By way of example, the system  adopts RESTful service principles. In this manner, for internet services, scalability can be readily achieved for public resources. This is because public resources can be easily placed at various internet caches along the path from user equipment to servers. The main cost, among other costs, for a service platform stems from the need to utilize protected resources, which entails providing user authentication, resource authorization, and optionally data privacy protection. Typically, protected resources cannot be placed at internet caches, because these caches are unaware of authentication and authorization rules that are often specified proprietarily by the hosting servers of these resources.","According to certain embodiments, the system  \u2018converts\u201d or transforms protected resources into cache-friendly public resources. As such, protected resources are encrypted, and encryption keys are only distributed to authorize users. Thus, the encrypted resources can be safely placed on public network caches , which can reside, e.g., within content delivery networks. Consequently, users who do not have encryption keys cannot use these encrypted resources in any meaningful way. For users who possess keys, they can retrieve desired resources from the cache , in similar fashion to how they retrieve public resources. Once the resources are retrieved, however, the users can decrypt the downloaded encrypted resource with the appropriate keys. The system  effectively moves the security policy enforcement point from centralized points of backend servers to many distributed clients\/caches . In the case of consumer internet services, there can be typically hundreds of millions of users, and even greater requests emanating from such users for content. Thus, the overall efficiency gain can be very significant.","By way of example, the UE , the access control services platform , the social network service platform , and the web service platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network  using well known, new or still developing protocols. In this context, a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network  interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node, from generating and receiving physical signals of various types, to selecting a link for transferring those signals, to the format of information indicated by those signals, to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Reference Model. The access control service platform , the social network service platform . . . and the web service platform can be implemented via shared or partially shared hardware equipment or different hardware equipments.","In various embodiments, the communication network  allows the access control platform to synchronize an existing user list (e.g., the contact list database  or user lists  of other service platforms , ) or create a new user list in the database  with the contact database  of the UE . For example, the access control platform may collect online personal information management (e.g., Google\u00ae, Yahoo\u00ae, etc.) including management of user contacts. It is contemplated that the access control platform may include in any service including at least in part a contact list.","Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises (1) header information associated with a particular protocol, and (2) payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols, the packet includes (3) trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet, its destination, the length of the payload, and other properties used by the protocol. Often, the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different, higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks, such as the Internet, typically include a physical (layer 1) header, a data-link (layer 2) header, an internetwork (layer 3) header and a transport (layer 4) header, and various application headers (layer 5, layer 6 and layer 7) as defined by the OSI Reference Model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["107","107","103"],"i":"a "},"By way of example, the access control application  includes one or more components for providing a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. It is contemplated that the functions of these components may be combined in one or more components or performed by other components of equivalent functionality. In this embodiment, the access control application  includes a control logical  for controlling the operations of the components within the access control application, an access control module  for control access to shared data, an authorization key management module  for managing authorization keys, and an access right filter (\u201cARF\u201d) generation module  for generating ARFs. Both the access control module  and the authorization key management module  are connected to a contact list and authorization key database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 10"],"b":["107","300","301","107","103","103","107","303","305","107","307","107","309","311"],"i":["a","a"]},"Alternatively, the user publishes a URL to the resource on the access control service platform . Consequently, any user can request this URL, in which the request can be mostly served at caches rather than at an original server where the access control service platform resides.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","401","103","114","103","403","103","300"],"i":["a ","a ","a "]},"If the user is Alice, in one scenario (YES I of Step ), the access control service platform generates a key for Alice and a key for resource. The key for Alice is usually not specific to any resources. As mentioned, the key for Alice can be generated when Alice signs up to the access control service platform for the first time. In Step , the access control service platform encrypts the uploaded a photo and the second authorization keys. The photo is \/photos\/123 and owned by Alice. As such, no other user except Alice is allowed to view the photo. The key for the resource (in this example, is a photo) is specific to the photo rather than to Alice. By way of example, the key for resource is the MD5 hash of the photo. MD5 is more fully detailed in Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Request for Comment (RFC) 1321, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The access control service platform also adds a header in the response which specifies that only Alice can access to the photo. Thus, the content of the photo is as follows:\n\n","Here AES(key, data) is the result of encrypting the data with the key using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm. The access control service platform generates a secret key for every registered user. Therefore, the key for Alice is only shared by Alice and the access control service platform . The access control service platform generate a response with the above-described content (Step ), i.e., the encrypted resource keys and the encrypted photo, and then distributes the response via the internet and caches anywhere on the internet (Step ) to initiate caching the response (Step ). Most requests for the encrypted photo is replied by an internet cache, and do not reach the original backend server that encrypts the photo. Although the response is cached in internet caches and available for other users to retrieve, only Alice can use the response, because only Alice has her key to decrypt the header (Step ) and acquires the key for resource (i.e., the photo) to decrypt the photo (Step ). The cache may be the one that is closest to Alice's user equipment, or a least busy one, or a randomly selected one.","In another embodiment, the header and the encrypted resource are separated into two responses. This approach works especially well for resources with relatively large sizes, such as music or video clips. By way of example, while encrypted resources are placed on caches that are out the control of backend servers, light-weight headers are placed on caches (e.g., server-side accelerators, etc.) for auditing purposes.","In another scenario (still YES I of Step ), Alice requests the access control service platform to allow Bob share the photo. The access control service platform thus adds a new entry to the header section for Bob, updates the version of the photo as \/photos\/123v=2 so as to be accessed by Alice and Bob but no one else. The old version photo: \/photos\/123 is still in caches until it is purged. The content of the second version of the photo is as follows:\n\n","In another embodiment, the access control service platform removes user information from headers, when the information of who have access to a resource is sensitive for some resources. Then Alice or Bob can use their individual key to decrypt the encrypted resource key, and then use the key for resource to decrypt the encrypted photo.","By analogy, Alice can share the photo with one of her social groups (e.g., her college classmates including Leslie). The access control service platform also maintains a secret key for every social group of Alice. The key for a social group is shared by all the members in the social group. Therefore, like sharing with Bob, the access control service platform adds another entry to the header for the social group and updates the version of the photo as: \/photos\/123v=3. The content of the third version of the photo is as follows:\n\n","Leslie has the key for classmates because she belongs to this social group. Therefore, the photo can be accessed only by Alice, Bob and members (including Leslie) in the social group.","In another scenario (YES II of Step ), the access control service platform further encrypts a known text (such as Alice's first pet name: Fluffy) with the key of resource (Step ), and then generates, sends and initiates a caching response (including encrypted known text) in Steps ,  and  as in the YES I route. Therefore, when Alice uses the UE  to retrieve the response from a cache, the UE  decrypts the encrypted resource key and the encrypted know text (Step ) before decrypting the encrypted resource. By checking the decrypted known face (Step ), Alice knows whether the resource is intended for her before taking the time and effort to initiate decryption the encrypted resource (which may include hundreds of photos, and thus, time consuming). Next, Alice confirms that the decrypted text matches with her known text, and the UE  decrypts the encrypted resource (Step ). If the decrypted known text matches with her known text, the UE  ends the process. Therefore, Alice does not have to blindly try to decrypt potentially large amount of resource. The content of this version of the photo is as follows:\n\n","In another scenario, when Alice modifies the photo and removes Bob from the access list and modifies the photo, the access control service platform updates the version of the photo as: \/photos\/123v=4 and removes Bob from the header. The content of the fourth version of the photo is as follows:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6B","FIG. 3","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6B"],"b":["101","611","610","621","620","623","620"]},"If Bob tries to access the fourth version of the photo, he cannot do so because there is no way for him to acquire the key that is used to encrypt the modified photo anymore. However, Bob may already have downloaded the third version of the photo to his local computer, and has a copy of it.","The system  can co-exists with the traditional approach of placing security policy enforcement on backend servers . The system  helps reading protected data. When writing public data, the conventional access control mechanisms are still used. For typical consumer internet services, there are much more read requests than write requests on a resource. Resource versioning are used when a resource is modified which introduces some overhead on servers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":["500","103"],"i":"a "},"It is noted that context information can impact the processing capacity in backend servers . For example, if a resource changes frequently, resource versioning introduces overhead. Also, if the size of resources is very small, resource headers pose significant overhead. Further, if a resource needs to be audited, e.g., to know when and how many times the resource is accessed, the process  distorts such information.","In view of these considerations, the access control service platform utilizes the process  on each resource to determine whether to use the process  or a conventional access control method. In one embodiment, the process  is checked each time a resource is created or modified (including modifying access rights to users). Different consideration of the process  for determine whether to initiate or continue caching the resource (Step ) includes: whether the resource size is and\/or will be smaller than a predetermined number of bytes (Step ), whether an access frequency of the resource is and\/or will be greater than a predetermined number of times (Step ), whether an modification frequency of the resource is and\/or will be greater than a predetermined number of times (Step ), and whether the resource does not and\/or will not require to be audited (Step ).","If the overhead introduced by caching grows over a predefined threshold value because of too frequent modifications, etc. such that one of decisions (Steps -) is YES, the access control service platform ends the process . However, if all of the determination are NO, the access control service platform initiates or continues caching the resource (Step ).","The access control service platform automatically monitors the usage behavior of a resource or a type of resources. Whenever the size, access frequency, modification frequency and audit requirement of the resource is changed (Step ), the access control service platform proceeds to the process . By way of example, a resource needs to be audited in the beginning. For this reason, the determination yields NO. Later, the process determines that it is better to move the audit to some other related resources. For example, the concerned resource is an image and can appear in some web pages. To audit only the hosting web pages is a better auditing approach, in which case the determination is YES.","Another benefit of the described arrangement is that the users do not have to know the details on how a data sharing request is fulfilled. Thus no changes are needed on client codes to utilize the process .","The process  further support a method of distributing Access Rights Management using Right Filters (ARFs), by defining how to implement ARFs in an easy and secure way.","Referring back to the access right filter generation module  in  for generating ARFs,  are flowcharts of an access rights filter generation process executed by the access rights filter generation module , according to certain embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["103","107","209","107","701","703","209","209","705","107","707","107","709"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["103","113","107","801","803","805","103","113","807","103","113","809"],"i":["a ","a ","a "]},"As such, in certain embodiments, the described processes provide several advantages for owners of services and other resources to protect their resources by restricting access to the resources to trusted users based upon access rights definitions. In this regard, content and service owners may generate distributable access rights filters configured to grant or otherwise filter access to content based upon received authorization keys recognized by the access rights filters. These authorization keys are also distributable such that authorization keys may be distributed only to trusted users. Rather than define a plurality of listings of users with each list having associated access rights permissions, a content owner may instead generate one or more ARFs defining access rights levels and distribute authorization keys to trusted users without having to manually add new users to a centralized access rights list.","The processes described herein for providing building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache may be advantageously implemented via software, hardware (e.g., general processor, Digital Signal Processing (DSP) chip, an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), etc.), firmware or a combination thereof Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","910","900"]},"A bus  includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors  for processing information are coupled with the bus .","A processor  performs a set of operations on information related to building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus  and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information, shifting positions of units of information, and combining two or more units of information, such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR, exclusive OR (XOR), and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions, such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor , such as a sequence of operation codes, constitute processor instructions, also called computer system instructions or, simply, computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical, electrical, magnetic, optical, chemical or quantum components, among others, alone or in combination.","Computer system  also includes a memory  coupled to bus . The memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, stores information including processor instructions for building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory  is also used by the processor  to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system  also includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information, including instructions, that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus  is a non-volatile (persistent) storage device , such as a magnetic disk, optical disk or flash card, for storing information, including instructions, that persists even when the computer system  is turned off or otherwise loses power.","Information, including instructions for building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache, is provided to the bus  for use by the processor from an external input device , such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user, or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus , used primarily for interacting with humans, include a display device , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD), or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images, and a pointing device , such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys, or motion sensor, for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display  and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments, for example, in embodiments in which the computer system  performs all functions automatically without human input, one or more of external input device , display device  and pointing device  is omitted.","In the illustrated embodiment, special purpose hardware, such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) , is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor  quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display , cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network, speech recognition, and interfaces to special external devices, such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.","Computer system  also includes one or more instances of a communications interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a one-way or two-way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors, such as printers, scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link  that is connected to a local network  to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example, communication interface  may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus (USB) port on a personal computer. In some embodiments, communications interface  is an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments, a communication interface  is a cable modem that converts signals on bus  into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example, communications interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links, the communications interface  sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical, acoustic or electromagnetic signals, including infrared and optical signals, that carry information streams, such as digital data. For example, in wireless handheld devices, such as mobile telephones like cell phones, the communications interface  includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments, the communications interface  enables connection to the communication network  for building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache to the UE .","The term computer-readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media include, for example, dynamic memory . Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. Signals include man-made transient variations in amplitude, frequency, phase, polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["1000","1000"]},"In one embodiment, the chip set  includes a communication mechanism such as a bus  for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor  has connectivity to the bus  to execute instructions and process information stored in, for example, a memory . The processor  may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi-core processor include two, four, eight, or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition, the processor  may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus  to enable independent execution of instructions, pipelining, and multithreading. The processor  may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors (DSP) , or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) . A DSP  typically is configured to process real-world signals (e.g., sound) in real time independently of the processor . Similarly, an ASIC  can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) (not shown), one or more controllers (not shown), or one or more other special-purpose computer chips.","The processor  and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory  via the bus . The memory  includes both dynamic memory (e.g., RAM, magnetic disk, writable optical disk, etc.) and static memory (e.g., ROM, CD-ROM, etc.) for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. The memory  also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 1"],"b":["1103","1105","1107","1109","1111","1111","1111","1113"]},"A radio section  amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station, which is included in a mobile communication system, via antenna . The power amplifier (PA)  and the transmitter\/modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU , with an output from the PA  coupled to the duplexer  or circulator or antenna switch, as known in the art. The PA  also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .","In use, a user of mobile station  speaks into the microphone  and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter (ADC) . The control unit  routes the digital signal into the DSP  for processing therein, such as speech encoding, channel encoding, encrypting, and interleaving. In one embodiment, the processed voice signals are encoded, by units not separately shown, using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution (EDGE), general packet radio service (GPRS), global system for mobile communications (GSM), Internet protocol multimedia subsystem (IMS), universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS), etc., as well as any other suitable wireless medium, e.g., microwave access (WiMAX), Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks, code division multiple access (CDMA), wireless fidelity (WiFi), satellite, and the like.","The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer  for compensation of any frequency-dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream, the modulator  combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator  generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission, an up-converter  combines the sine wave output from the modulator  with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer  to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA  to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems, the PA  acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP  from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer  and optionally sent to an antenna coupler  to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally, the signal is transmitted via antenna  to a local base station. An automatic gain control (AGC) can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone, other mobile phone or a land-line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), or other telephony networks.","Voice signals transmitted to the mobile station  are received via antenna  and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier (LNA) . A down-converter  lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator  strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer  and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter (DAC)  converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker , all under control of a Main Control Unit (MCU) \u2014which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit (CPU) (not shown).","The MCU  receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard  and\/or the MCU  in combination with other user input components (e.g., the microphone ) comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU  runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile station  to building a scalable service platform by initiating transmission of encrypted data from a public network cache. The MCU  also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display  and to the speech output switching controller, respectively. Further, the MCU  exchanges information with the DSP  and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card  and a memory . In addition, the MCU  executes various control functions required of the station. The DSP  may, depending upon the implementation, perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally, DSP  determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone  and sets the gain of microphone  to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile station .","The CODEC  includes the ADC  and DAC . The memory  stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via, e.g., the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory, flash memory, registers, or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device  may be, but not limited to, a single memory, CD, DVD, ROM, RAM, EEPROM, optical storage, or any other non-volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.","An optionally incorporated SIM card  carries, for instance, important information, such as the cellular phone number, the carrier supplying service, subscription details, and security information. The SIM card  serves primarily to identify the mobile station  on a radio network. The card  also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry, text messages, and user specific mobile station settings.","The system  significantly lowers the overall cost for maintaining backend servers that host large scale consumer internet services. It requires no any changes on public network caches, but only requires backend servers and clients to be slightly updated.","While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations, the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements, which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims, it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The embodiments of the invention are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6B","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
