---
title: Compact and stand-alone combined multi-axial and shear test apparatus
abstract: A testing apparatus is disclosed that includes a turntable, an upper scissor jack assembly and a lower scissor jack assembly positioned in parallel planes, about a longitudinal axis and affixed to a base. The apparatus is powered by at least three motors with supporting controllers. The lower assembly is affixed to the base mechanically via the turntable which allows the lower assembly to rotate with respect to the upper assembly. There are two loading plates attached to the hinges of each scissor jack. The test specimen is secured by the loading plate. Each scissor jack operates by a screw-gear powered by one of the motors. Upon energizing a stepper motor; the screw-gear positions a scissor jack to apply a tension or compression on the specimen. While subjected to tension or compression, the lower jack assembly can be rotated with respect to the upper assembly for in-plane shear loading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08082802&OS=08082802&RS=08082802
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08082802
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090925
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/215,967 filed on Apr. 28, 2009 and entitled \u201cCompact and Stand-Alone Combined Multi-Axial and Shear Test Apparatus\u201d by the inventors, Paul V. Cavallaro, Ali Sadegh and Claudia Quigley.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to a compact, stand-alone in-plane shear loading and biaxial tension or compression testing apparatus employable for studies of the mechanical properties of materials such as metals, plastics and composites.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Fabrics typically used in air-inflated structures (air beams, temporary shelters, tents, temporary bridges, and space structures) are often manufactured in woven or braided forms. These structures rely on inflation pressure to pre-tension the fabric (or membrane) so that the necessary planar stiffness can be developed to achieve rigidity and resistance to in-plane and lateral loads.","Unlike metallic structures, air-inflated structures are designed to be lightweight; to have deployed-to-stowed volume ratios that can be in the range of 1000-to-1; and possibly be self-erecting. Although these technologies have been known in the art for many years, the technologies have not been refined to a level that reliable structures can be designed by structural analysis.","The advent of fiber-based structural material and weaving\/braiding technologies has improved the load carrying capacity of pressurized structures. Accordingly, there has been increasing interest in modeling the mechanical behavior of woven fabrics. However, this class of composite material has complex microstructures that can produce complex mechanical responses. In particular, the mechanical characteristics of plain-woven fabrics used in inflated structures (unlike traditional composite materials) exhibit high non-linearity with a dependence on the internal pressure and contact interactions within the woven fabric.","Therefore, there is a need for a testing apparatus which allows the measurement of the elastic and shear moduli for air beams. Specifically, the need is for a compact and independent testing apparatus that is capable of applying a combined in-plane shear load and biaxial load. This need includes the capability of loading non-orthogonal composite or fabric materials with equi biaxial or non-equi biaxial loading.","While biaxial testing apparatuses with compression and tension loading or in-plane shear testing apparatuses exist in the prior art, only those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,860,156, 7,051,600 and 7,204,160 to Cavallaro et. al have a combined feature of in-plane shear and compression\/tension testing capabilities and the capability to apply a non-orthogonal biaxial loading.","Cavallaro et al., (U.S. Pat. No. 6,860,156), describes a multi-axial tension or compression and an in-plane shear loading testing apparatus in which the apparatus is capable of determining the mechanical properties of metal, plastic, woods, fabrics, elastomers and other materials. The testing apparatus uses a mechanical testing machine for applying the tension, compression and rotation loading on the apparatus. The loading is applied to the test specimen in a displacement-controlled mode by which an equal biaxial extension (or contraction) results.","Sadegh et al, (U.S. Pat. No. 7,204,160), describes a combined multi-axial tension or compression and in-plane shear loading apparatus with a choice of displacement-controlled or force-controlled modes of loading. This apparatus improves upon the apparatus of (U.S. Pat. No. 6,860,156) and can be used to subject a test specimen to proportionately controlled loads among the axial directions. The force control feature is crucial in creep testing of composite, anisotropic and fabric materials, wherein constant tension or compression forces on the test specimen is desired.","Cavallaro et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 7,051,600) describes a testing apparatus capable of simultaneously applying a three-dimensional tension or compression state of stress combined with in-plane shear loading in a displacement-controlled mode. This apparatus improves over the previous apparatus in which of U.S. Pat. No. 6,860,156 in which the compression and tension was in only in two dimensions (planar). That is, the test specimen could be subjected to tension, compression, independently or simultaneously, in the three orthogonal directions, X, Y and Z, with the specimen optionally subjected to a shear load in one plane. A restriction of the apparatus is the required use of a mechanical testing machine for applying the tension, compression and rotation loading to the apparatus.","Instead prior art methods have employed two or more separate actuators in complex test fixtures and\/or pressurization techniques for applying a biaxial load to a test specimen. A disadvantage of these methods is the need for two or more loading devices and the relatively high cost of the equipment.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,905,205 describes an in-plane biaxial test apparatus comprising a rhombus and linkages to transfer the load to the orthogonal direction of the loading. The disadvantage of this apparatus is that the apparatus is not capable of applying in-plane shear to the test specimen. Another disadvantage of this apparatus is that the biaxial loading is limited to an orthogonal configuration.","Lynch et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 3,776,028) describes an apparatus requiring three independent loading mechanisms. The test fixture of Lynch is a load point application device that is used to position the application of a single point force acting normal to a flat rectangular panel (specimen) such as those found in aircraft structures. The device does not enable the application of multi-axial tension\/compression forces in optional combination with in-plane shear forces.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,192,194, describes an apparatus for bi-axially loading a specimen through pressurizing the inside surface of a cylinder. The disadvantage of this apparatus includes the requirement of cylindrical shape of the specimen and the high cost and added equipment of pressurization.","Simonelli et al (U.S. Pat. No. 5,913,246) does not enable multi-axial loads (tension-tension, tension-compression, compression-compression) applied simultaneously along orthogonal or oblique orientations with or without in-plane shear regardless of the shape of the test specimen.","Other prior art reference include U.S. Pat. No. 5,448,918 which describes an apparatus with X-shape that is only used for compression load and U.S. Pat. No. 5,279,166 which describes an apparatus for self-alignment of a biaxial loading device. U.S. Pat. No. 5,144,844 describes a cruciform planar specimen for biaxial material testing.","Although the advantages over the prior art by the cited Cavallaro and Sadegh references are numerous, a significant disadvantage is that the apparatuses of the cited references require a mechanical testing machine with the capabilities of applying tension, compression and rotation loading. That is, to use any apparatus of the cited patent references, one needs to acquire the mechanical testing machine. The machine can be costly and requires a large space for operation.","Thus, there is a need for a compact, comparatively low cost and stand-alone material testing apparatus that is capable of applying combined multi-axial tension\/compression and in-plane shear loads to a specimen in displacement-controlled or force-controlled modes without requiring a materials testing machine for the operation of the apparatus.","It is therefore a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a compact, low cost and stand-alone material testing apparatus that is capable of applying combined multi-axial tension\/compression and in-plane shear loads to a test specimen in optional displacement-controlled or force-controlled modes without requiring a materials testing machine for operation of the apparatus.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide, independently and without the need for a testing machine, the ability to test a specimen by subjecting the specimen to a combined in-plane, compression or tension as well as in-plane shear.","In order to attain the objects described, the present invention relates generally to a combined (simultaneously or independently) in-plane shear and compression or tension loading of a test specimen such as but not limited to metals, plastics, composites, woods, fabrics or anisotropic materials. The apparatus is self-contained to operate independent of an external testing device. The apparatus can apply unequal, orthogonal or oblique stress states on a specimen by the use of load transfer systems comprising two rhombus-shaped scissor jack assemblies and a turntable.","The apparatus provides flexibility in applying an unequal biaxial load to the specimen by applying different torque to each scissor jack assembly. In addition, the apparatus provides further flexibility in applying an orthogonal biaxial loading by choosing a different angle, other than orthogonal between the scissor jack assemblies. The in-plane shear load can be applied either simultaneously or independently of the biaxial tension\/compression load.","The apparatus comprises a lower scissor jack assembly, an upper scissor jack assembly, at least four loading plates, stepper electric motors and controls, a turntable and a fixed support base. Each scissor jack assembly includes a rhombus-shape linkage system, at least one power screw-gear, loading plate assemblies and loading supports.","The upper scissor jack assembly is supported above the fixed base and the lower scissor jack assembly is positioned on the turntable. The turntable engages with a stepper motor to rotate in alternating directions with respect to the base. By rotating the turntable, the lower scissor jack assembly rotates relative to the upper scissor jack assembly. The angle of rotation of the lower scissor jack assembly can be measured directly.","The linkage system of the upper scissor jack assembly has four hinges, two hinges at either side of the screw-gear and the other two hinges that are connected to two linkages of the upper scissor jack assembly. One of the stepper motors is axially connected to the power screw-gear. Two hinges at either side of the screw-gear are restrained to move in an expansion and\/or a contraction mode in collinear slots located on the support brackets. The other two hinges are restrained by co-linear sliding shafts that are supported by fixed brackets. The co-linear slots (for the screw-gear hinges) are perpendicular to the axis of the co-linear sliding shafts. Upon energizing the stepper motor, the screw-gear hinges along the screw-gears move within the slots, and the adjacent loading hinges move perpendicularly along the sliding shaft while the center of the upper scissor jack assembly remains fixed.","Likewise, the linkage system of the lower scissor jack assembly has four hinges, two at either side of the screw-gear and the other two hinges connecting the two linkages. The second stepper motor is axially connected to the power screw-gear of the lower scissor jack assembly. All hinges of the lower scissor jack assembly are restrained to move in four slots (two co-linear pairs) on the turntable. The co-linear slots are perpendicular allowing the adjacent hinges, screw-gear hinges and loading hinges, to move in perpendicular directions in an expansion and\/or contraction mode. Upon energizing the stepper motor of the lower scissor jack assembly, all hinges move along their corresponding slots in a perpendicular manner while the center of the lower scissor jack assembly remains fixed at a center point that is vertically below the center point of the upper scissor jack assembly.","Each of the loading plates comprises a L-shaped bracket and a gripping\/clamping means that is attached to the distal end of the bracket. The loading plates are attached to the two loading hinges of the upper scissor jack assembly and extend below the plane of the upper scissor jack assembly. Likewise, another set of loading plates are connected to the loading hinges of the lower scissor jack assembly and extend above the plane of the lower scissor jack assembly.","The plane of the clamp mechanism of the sets of the loading plates is co-planar. That is, when the four sides of the test specimen are clamped by the loading plates; the test specimen remains horizontal. Because the center point of the two scissor jacks are fixed in space and are located parallel to each other; the center point of the specimen remains fixed while the specimen is subjected to tension or compression.","The output shaft of a third stepper motor is connected to a gear that engages with a larger gear with the axle of the larger gear connected to the turntable. Upon energizing the stepper motor, the turntable rotates with respect to the base. The stepper motors are electrically connected to corresponding motor drivers. Each driver is electrically connected to a data acquisition device which is connected to a computer. Through simple programming, one can control the use of the stepper motors; thereby, applying a tension, compression and rotation to the specimen at varying testing levels.","Referring now to , a compact testing apparatus  is shown in which the apparatus comprises an upper scissor jack assembly , a lower scissor jack assembly , a turntable  and a support base  (preferably sized for tabletop use). For testing, a test specimen  is positioned within the apparatus .","The upper scissor jack assembly  comprises a four-bar linkage , hinged in a rhombus shape (similar to an automotive scissor jack) and a power (lead) screw-gear . The four hinges of the upper jack assembly  are supported by upper assembly support brackets , ,  and  in which the support brackets are rigidly connected to the fixed base .","The screw-gear  is activated by a first stepper motor  that is controllable by a computer (not shown) thru an electronic driver , a data acquisition board  and a serial port .","The lower scissor jack assembly , similar to the upper scissor jack assembly , comprises a four bar linkage  hinged in a rhombus shape and a power (lead) screw-gear . The hinges of the lower scissor jack assembly  are supported by the turntable . The screw-gear  of the lower scissor jack assembly  is activated by a second stepper motor  that is computer-controlled through the serial port , the data acquisition board  and an electronic driver . The turntable  is activated by a third stepper motor  that is computer-controlled through the serial port , the data acquisition board  and an electronic driver .","The testing apparatus  also includes a strain indicator  that is electrically connected to at least four strain gauges  (See ) in which the gauges measure the strain subjected by the test specimen . In addition, the testing apparatus  has a standard power supply  for the data acquisition board , the electronic drivers ,  and  and the strain indicator .","Referring now to , the four linkages  of the upper scissor jack assembly  are hinged at screw-gear hinges  and  and at loading hinges . The loading hinges  are connected to loading supports  and  on either side of the loading hinges.","The loading support  is axially engaged with a sliding shaft  that is rigidly connected to the support bracket  such that the loading support can slide axially over the shaft. The loading support  is axially engaged with a sliding shaft  that is rigidly connected to a horizontal connector  and the vertical support brackets . The loading support  can slide axially over the sliding shaft . Both the sliding shafts  and  restrain the displacement of the loading hinges  to a co-linear motion that is perpendicular to the axis of the screw-gear .","The screw-gear hinge  that is located at the proximal end of the screw-gear  has a nut  that is engaged with the screw-gear and a displacement pin  that slides linearly in a slot (indent)  that is located on the horizontal plane of the support .","The screw-gear hinge  that is located at the distal end of the screw-gear  has a nut  that is engaged with the screw-gear and the pin  that slides linearly in a slot (indent)  (See ) in which the slot is located on the horizontal plane of the upper assembly support bracket . The slots  and  restrain the displacement of the screw-gear hinges  and  to a co-linear motion that is perpendicular to a reference line indicating a position of the loading hinges . The support brackets  and  are rigidly connected to the base .","The upper scissor jack assembly  also has two loading plate assemblies  that are rigidly attached to the loading supports  and . The loading plate assemblies  extend below the plane of the upper scissor jack assembly  such that when two ends of the test specimen  are clamped to the distal ends of the loading plates; the specimen does not contact the screw-gear .","In the figure, the first stepper motor  is shown mounted on a motor support bracket  and to the upper assembly support bracket ; however the first stepper motor may be directly affixed to the base . The shaft of the stepper motor  is axially and operationally connected to the power screw-gear  through a coupling shaft . The coupling shaft  has a pin  and a slot  (See ) that transfers the torque of the shaft of the stepper motor  to the power screw-gear  while allowing limited axial displacement between the shaft and the screw-gear. There is a limiting switch  on the proximal end of the slot  that stops the stepper motor  when the hinge reaches the proximal end of the slot; thereby, preventing the upper scissor jack assembly  from overextending.","Referring to ,  and , the linkages  of the lower scissor jack assembly  are hinged at screw-gear hinges  and  and two pairs of loading hinges . The lower scissor jack assembly  also includes a power screw-gear  and the second stepper motor . The loading hinges  are connected to two loading supports  on either side of the loading hinges. The axis of the screw-gear  is generally perpendicular and on a parallel plane to the axis of the screw-gear  of the upper scissor jack assembly . That is, in operation, the lower scissor jack assembly  is rotated ninety degrees with respect to the upper scissor jack assembly .","The screw-gear hinge  of the lower scissor jack assembly  has a nut  that is engaged with the screw-gear  and a displacement pin (not shown) that slides linearly in a slot  which is located on the horizontal plane of the turntable . The screw-gear hinge  has a nut  that is engaged with the screw-gear . The slots , on either sides of the screw-gear , both restrain the displacement of the screw-gear hinges  and  to a co-linear motion that is perpendicular to a reference line indicating the position of the loading hinges .","The loading hinges  have displacement pins at their inferior surface (not shown) that slide linearly in a slot (not shown) that is located on the horizontal plane of the turntable . The slots restrain the displacement of the loading hinges  to a co-linear motion that is perpendicular to a reference line indicating the position of the screw-gear hinges  and . The lower scissor jack assembly  is supported by the turntable  through the pin and slot configuration.","The lower scissor jack assembly  has two loading plates  that are rigidly attached to the loading supports . The loading plates  extend above the plane of the lower scissor jack assembly  such that when two ends of the test specimen  are clamped to the distal ends of the loading plates; the specimen does not contact the screw-gear . The height of the distal ends of the loading plates  of the lower scissor jack assembly  is at the same level of the height of the distal ends of the loading plate assemblies  of the upper scissor jack assembly  such that the plane of the test specimen  is horizontal when four sides of the specimen are clamped to the four loading plates.","The second stepper motor  is rigidly connected to a bracket  and to the turntable  (See ). The shaft of the second stepper motor  is axially and operationally connected to the screw-gear  through a coupling shaft . The coupling shaft  has a pin  and a slot  (See ) that transfers the torque of the shaft to the power screw-gear  while allowing limited axial displacement between the shaft and the screw-gear. There is a limiting switch  on the distal end of the slot , proximate to the screw-gear hinge . This limiting switch  is used to stop the stepper motor  when the hinge  reaches the proximal end of the slot; thereby, preventing the lower scissor jack assembly  from overextending.","Referring to , the turntable  comprises a planar circular disc, a gear , a pinion gear  and the third stepper motor . The gear  is coaxial to the turntable  and is engaged with the pinion gear . The third stepper motor  is rigidly connected to the supporting base  and electrically connected to the electronic driver  (shown in ).","Upon energizing the third stepper motor , the turntable  can rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise, thereby rotating the lower scissor jack assembly  with respect to the upper scissor jack assembly . To restrict the angle of rotation, two contact limiting switches  (shown in  and ) are attached to the sides of the support brackets . The distance between the sides and the contact limiting switches  of the support brackets  confines the maximum relative rotation of the lower scissor jack assembly  with respect to the upper scissor jack assembly . That is, the maximum shear angle of the test specimen  is defined by the distance between the support brackets  because the contact limiting switches  electrically stop the rotation of the turntable  when contacted and therefore stops shearing of the specimen.","Referring to , the loading plate assembly  comprises an L-shape bracket  having an extension , a distal end  and a locking plate . The extension  has two strain gauges  attached to adjacent surfaces. In one embodiment, the distal end  has a slot , the locking plate  and a plurality of screws . The fabric test specimen  is clamped between the locking plate  and the slot  (in a tongue and groove manner) by tightening the screws .","When the test specimen  is not a fabric, but instead is a solid object, and is to be subjected to a tension, another embodiment, may be used. The embodiment includes a standard tension grip  (shown in ) will replace the distal end of the loading plate assembly . Likewise, when the test specimen  is not a fabric, but rather is a solid object, and is to be subjected to a compression, another embodiment, may be used. The embodiment which includes a compression grip  (shown in ) will replace the distal end of the loading plate assembly . The strain gauges  are electrically connected to the strain gauge indicator  where the strain (and the stress) of the test specimen  in is measured.","An upper surface  of the bracket  is rigidly connected to the corresponding loading support of the upper and lower scissor jack assemblies. Specifically, the upper surface  of one loading plate assembly  is rigidly connected to the lower surface of the loading support . Likewise another loading plate is rigidly connected to the lower surface of the loading support  (See ). Also, the upper surface  of the loading plate assembly  is rigidly connected to the upper surface of the loading support , on the side of lower scissor jack assembly , likewise an other loading plate is rigidly connected to the upper surface of the loading support , on the another side of the lower jack assembly . (See ).","Operation of the testing assembly  involves clamping sides of the test specimen  to the distal clamping ends of the four loading plates assemblies (Note that two of the loading plate assemblies  are rigidly connected to the loading supports of the upper scissor jack assembly  and the other two of the loading plate assemblies  are rigidly connected to the loading supports of lower scissor jack assembly ).","For tensile loading of planar solids, a tension grip  is used (See ) and for compressive loading, a compression grip  is used (See ), and for fabric, the tongue and groove clamping is used (See ). Second, through a laptop or desktop computer and by using standard testing software or standard C++ programming; the digital computer commands are transferred to the stepper motor drivers through the data acquisition (DAQ) device. That is, through a computer command each of the stepper motors are energized and the test specimen  will be subjected to a combination of biaxial tension, compression or in-plane shear. The strains of the test specimen  will be measured by the strain gauge indicator and fed back through the DAQ device to the computer. The rotation of the turntable , or the angle of in-plane shear, is measured and controlled through the corresponding electronic driver.","Upon energizing the stepper motor  and rotating a output shaft of the stepper motor in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction; the screw-gear hinges  and  move toward or away from each other, while the loading hinges  move conversely away or toward each other. Note that the movements of the hinges are restrained by the slots (, ) and the sliding shafts (, ). Therefore, by activating the gear of the motor  in a clockwise and a counter-clockwise rotation, the test specimen  will be subjected to a tension or a compression load through the direct connection of the specimen with the loading plate assemblies  connected to the loading supports  and .","The limiting switch  limits the maximum expansion of the upper scissor jack assembly . Likewise, upon energizing the stepper motor  and rotating an output shaft of the motor in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction, the screw-gear hinges  and  move toward or away from each other, while the loading hinges  move conversely away or toward each other (See  and ). Note that the movements of the hinges are restrained by the four slots  on the turntable . Therefore, by rotating the gear shaft of the stepper motor  in the clockwise or counter-clockwise direction, the test specimen  will be subjected to a tension or a compression load through the direct connection of the specimen with the two loading plates . The limiting switch  limits the expansion of the lower scissor jack assembly .","Finally, upon energizing the third stepper motor  in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction; the turntable  including the lower scissor jack assembly  will turn in either the clockwise or counter-clockwise direction. Therefore, both loading plates  rotate in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction and apply the in-plane shear in a clockwise or counter-clockwise to the test specimen .","In addition to the usage of the previously mentioned strain gauges, conventional measurement equipment systems such as force transducers can be utilized to measure forces\/loads applied to the test specimen. Also, a conventional displacement wire transducer, or a conventional Linear Variable Displacement Transducer (LVDT) can be placed on the loading plates to measure the total biaxial displacements, rotation and strains of the test specimen .","It is important to note that the testing apparatus  can apply a non-equi biaxial loading ratio in that the tension\/compression and the displacements in each direction can be different and independent.","A first variant of operation is to use the testing apparatus  for a non-orthogonal (oblique) biaxial loading of the test specimen . This use is particularly important for testing of braided fabrics and non-orthogonal composite materials. To accomplish this task the stepper motor  of the turntable  is energized and the angle between the two axes of the applied load, i.e., the angle between the upper and the lower jack, can be adjusted to a desired oblique test specimen.","A second variant of operation is to use the testing apparatus  for the alternative modes of loading the test specimen : uniaxial tension, uniaxial compression, biaxial tension, biaxial compression, uniaxial tension with in-plane shear, uniaxial compression with in-plane shear, biaxial tension with in-plane shear, biaxial compression with in-plane shear, unequal biaxial tension with in-plane shear and unequal biaxial compression with in-plane shear.","An alternative power screw-gear arrangement is shown in  that enables visual access for viewing and video recording of the specimen  during testing. This alternative, which also makes installation of the test specimen  simpler, replaces the power screw-gear  with two truncated power screw-gears ,  aligned along the upper axis. The truncated power screw-gears ,  are operated in a synchronized manner using one stepper motor ,  for each power screw-gear. The limiting switch  can be used to inactivate the stepper motor for each screw-gear.","It will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals and symbols designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
