---
title: Cheek rest for firearm
abstract: There is shown in this invention a face cheek rest for a firearm that cushions a shooter (to generally aim then shoot) against uncomfortable interaction with harsh surfaces on a firearm buttstock or body. The cheek rest provides a secure, easy to clamp on and use interface, which is very comfortable and cushioning. The device is made to be light weight as well as low cost and aesthetically pleasing. This cheek rest can be used equally well on a weapon employing a folding metal butt stock assembly, other type collapsible firearm butt stock, or most any other standard type firearm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08141286&OS=08141286&RS=08141286
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08141286
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090512
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be made or used by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","Various conventional improvised face cheek rests for a firearm butt stock have been used. Such include a stack of folded flat material taped to the rifle butt stock, a cheek rest formed by wrapping the firearm butt stock with padding tape, using a firearm sling as a cheek rest, using a portion of a parka worn by the firearm user as a cheek rest, and using the left hand as a cheek rest by the firearm user while the firearm is operated with the right hand. Such expediencies have one or more deficiencies including improvised nature, not being secure, time consuming to install and remove, expensive, relatively heavy, not comfortable, unattractive, and generally not suitable for use on a collapsible or folding butt stock.","In contrast, the cheek rest of the present invention provides a secure, easy to use, adaptable, low cost, comfortable, light weight, cushioning, and aesthetically pleasing interface between a harsh firearm surface (e.g., a folding metal butt stock assembly, a collapsible firearm butt stock, for instance) and the face cheek of the firearm user.","While many conventional cheek rests are limited to specific applications, the cheek rest of the present invention may be advantageously implemented in connection with the Ingram\/MAC 10 and 11, Heckler and Koch MPS, MP40, U.S. M3\/M3AI submachine gun, MAT 49, Sterling L2A3, PPS43, AK47 under-folder, and similar firearms having metal bar\/wire stocks with one or two parallel, generally horizontal bars, as well as with the full-size Uzi folding metal stock shown in . Further, the cheek rest of the present invention may be implemented in connection with telescopically collapsible stocks such as the types described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,348,328 and 7,162,822. Yet further, the cheek rest of the present invention may be implemented in connection with conventional fixed butt stocks.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a face cheek rest for a firearm that is secure, easy to use, adaptable and relatively low cost.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a face cheek rest for a firearm that is also comfortable, light weight, cushioning, and aesthetically pleasing.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a cheek rest that may be implemented in connection with telescopically collapsible stocks such as an Uzi weapon, as well as with other conventional buttstock type weapons.","These and other objects, features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in light of the following detailed description of the invention.","The cheek rest is shown in perspective (isometric) view in . The cheek rest is a shell , being a hollow cylinder of flexible material. Shell  will typically be about \u215b\u2033 to \u00bd\u2033 thick and 4\u2033 to 6\u2033 in length. Cheek rest shell  has a longitudinal slit cut in it to aid in fully opening the cheek rest for installation around a selected component or longitudinal part, of a subject firearm. One end of the slit cut areas can be seen in cross sectional views  along section lines A-A, and is also generally pointed to in \u201cB\u201d of perspective view . The cheek rest has holes generally shown as  through the shell . The holes  could cover 20% to 80% of the total surface area of the cheek rest, but about 30% to 60% is generally used. The purpose of the holes as was mentioned is to lighten the weight of the cheek rest, for even with the holes therein, the surface of the cheek rest provides a comfortable place for a shooter to rest his face cheek thereupon as a kind of padding. Any weight reduction is useful and welcome to the shooter for the firearm must be physically carried, probably together with other equipment. In , a spring means  may also be added to shell  by being embedded therein such as by being molded in or being encapsulated therein. If spring means are used there would generally be one near each longitudinal end of the shell. When additional clamping force is desired springs can be added along the length of the shell . Springs may be steel or plastic, e.g., and width might vary from about \u00bc\u2033 to 1\u2033 though typically about \u00bd\u2033 wide, and less than 1\/16\u2033 thick. If the embodiment of  is used, rather than being embedded, a spring means  may be concentrically attached to the inside of the shell means by plastic push pins , and such spring means  might also have lip means for attachment such as are shown in .  E show examples of possible shapes of lips which could be chosen for the slit cuts.  show examples of other possible shapes of holes which could be substituted for the holes now shown as  in , and;  show examples of other possible patterns of the slit cuts which might be chosen, one end of which slit cuts is shown as \u201cB\u201d of . For example,  shows a sinusoidal (scalloped) pattern,  shows a saw tooth pattern, and  shows a square wave pattern.","In particular, the cheek rest of the present invention (as illustrated in , , -) is implemented as a substantially cylindrical (i.e., tube, pipe, hose, and the like) shaped apparatus made from a rigid yet resilient material (e.g., rubber or plastic that is molded or extruded) having a scalloped (e.g., wave-shaped) pattern edge slit which provides a fast, convenient, simple and yet secure mounting via the mating slit edge surface. This fully functional initial example illustrated in  is shown in connection with use in the operation of a full size Uzi firearm having folding buttstock. In another embodiment (e.g., ), the cheek rest of the present invention may be implemented having a saw-tooth (e.g., substantially triangular) edged slit in lieu of the scalloped slit illustrated in . In yet another embodiment (e.g., ), the edge of the slit may be a combination of mating scalloped and triangular shaped cuts. The cheek rest is implemented having a plurality of lightening holes such that the weight of the cheek rest is reduced while a user friendly \u201ccheek weld\u201d surface remains presented to the user and \u201cbite\u201d from the harsh surface of the butt stock when firing is reduced or eliminated. While the lightening holes illustrated in  are substantially circular in shape, other shapes, for example, triangular, oval, oblong, \u201clightning bolt\u201d, and the like, may be implemented (as shown, for example, in ). While the lightening holes provide weight reduction, the lightening holes are also generally configured to provide an aesthetically pleasing appearance.","To install the cheek rest, the user spreads the cheek rest open at the slit and positions the cheek rest on the respective firearm butt stock and releases the cheek rest. As the cheek rest is made from a flexible and resilient material, the cheek rest automatically recloses at the slit to secure the mounting to the butt stock. As well as an aesthetically pleasing appearance, the cheek rest also provides a surprisingly comfortable surface to the face cheek of the user.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF SUMMARY OF INVENTION AND DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["According to an embodiment of the present invention shown, these and other objects are accomplished by a face cheek rest device having sketches, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8H","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-9F","FIG. 1","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9C","FIG. 9D","FIG. 9E","FIG. 9F"],"b":"14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
