---
title: Managing non-destructive evaluation data
abstract: Embodiments of the invention include methods to manage non-destructive evaluation (“NDE”) data. The method includes receiving NDE data for at least a portion of an asset along with inspection information associated with the at least a portion of the asset, and determining at least one alignment algorithm to align the NDE data to a simulated model of the at least a portion of the asset based on at least one of the NDE data or the inspection information. The method further includes automatically aligning The NDE data to the simulated model with the at least one alignment algorithm and analyzing the aligned NDE data on the simulated model to determine coverage of the simulated model by the NDE data. Additional methods include retrieving NDE data that has previously been aligned to the simulated model and determining coverage or determining trends associated with indications thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521480&OS=08521480&RS=08521480
owner: Etegent Technologies, Ltd.
number: 08521480
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091112
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT RIGHTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Hardware and Software Environment","Software Description and Flows","Example 1","Example 2","Example 3","Example 4","Example 5","Example 6","Example 7"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/403,274 to Joseph M. Kesler et al., entitled \u201cMANAGING NON-DESTRUCTIVE EVALUATION DATA,\u201d filed Mar. 12, 2009 (SDL\/08). This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/557,136 to Joseph M. Kesler et al., entitled \u201cMANAGING NON-DESTRUCTIVE EVALUATION DATA,\u201d filed Sep. 10, 2009 (SDL\/08A), which is a continuation of the aforementioned '274 application. The disclosures of both of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","Certain aspects of this invention were made with government support under Grant\/Contract No. FA8650-07-C-5210 awarded by the United States Air Force\/Air Force Material Command DET 1 Air Force Research Laboratory\/PKMM. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to computing systems, and more particularly to the management and automatic alignment of non-destructive evaluation (\u201cNDE\u201d) data.","Non-destructive Evaluation and Inspection (\u201cNDE\/I\u201d) technologies generally provide ways to nondestructively scan, image, sense or otherwise evaluate characteristics of materials and\/or components. In particular, NDE\/I technologies may be used to detect minute flaws and defects in those materials and\/or component parts. As such, NDE\/I technologies have become increasingly used to help assure structural and functional integrity, safety, and cost effective sustainment of various assets, during both initial manufacture and operational service. More specifically, NDE\/I technologies have been increasingly used in determining the wear and tear of assets that are pushed to their physical limits, such as military vehicles. As the average age of the various assets increases, particularly beyond the originally contemplated design life, the importance of using NDE\/I technologies to detect structural damage before that damage advances to structural failure is paramount.","Non-destructive evaluation (\u201cNDE\u201d) data is often gathered from NDE data collection devices and may include x-ray images of at least a portion of an asset, such as the wing of an aircraft. By analyzing a dataset of NDE data, defects or other structural irregularities of the asset at the location associated with that dataset of NDE data can be detected. However, this NDE data is typically difficult to manage and handle. For example, the NDE data is often large in size, associated with merely a portion of the asset, and also must be matched with a particular location on the asset. To determine wear and tear, structural damage and\/or other irregularities of an entire component of an asset may require the analysis of tens (if not hundreds) of individual datasets of NDE data. This results in numerous datasets of NDE data for each asset, and thus even more datasets of NDE data for a fleet of assets. As each dataset of NDE data is often inspected, this results in large amounts of data that are difficult to categorize and otherwise analyze in whole. Moreover, the NDE data may be discarded after it has been analyzed, and thus there is often little NDE data for an asset over time. Thus, when a potential problem is indicated, it is often difficult to track that indication on an asset through time, analyze that indication in relation to other indications of the asset, and analyze that indication in relation to indications of a plurality of similar assets.","As the amount of NDE data increases, so do associated costs and needs for users trained to perform inspections. Although NDE data collection devices may produce digital data, the digital data is being generated without systems in place to manage and archive the collected information. Moreover, the analysis of NDE data is often laborious and crude. Some conventional systems receive NDE data and align it to a simulated model of a portion of an asset through the use of manual tools. However, these manual tools require human interaction and generally require a user experienced with that NDE data and\/or asset to align and analyze that NDE data. Although some conventional systems have used automatic alignment of the NDE data, these methods often fail as a method of alignment for one dataset of NDE data is typically not useful for another dataset of NDE data. Thus, conventional systems are typically unable to align datasets of NDE data that are in turn associated multiple modalities (e.g., datasets of NDE data captured with various NDE data collection devices). This often has the effect of tying particular method of alignments to particular NDE data collection devices, and thus increases the cost of NDE data capture and analysis.","Consequently, there is a continuing need to manage datasets of NDE data of an asset or fleet of assets over time, as well as a continuing need to support the alignment of multiple modalities of NDE data in an extensible platform that supports NDE data fusion.","Embodiments of the invention provide for a method, apparatus, and program product to manage non-destructive evaluation (\u201cNDE\u201d) data associated with at least a portion of an asset. In some embodiments, a method of managing NDE data comprises receiving NDE data for at least a portion of an asset, including receiving inspection information associated with the at least a portion of the asset. The method further comprises determining at least one alignment algorithm to align the NDE data to a simulated model of the at least a portion of the asset based upon at least one of the NDE data and the inspection information and automatically aligning the NDE data to the simulated model with the at least one alignment algorithm. The method further comprises analyzing the aligned NDE data on the simulated model to determine coverage of the simulated model by the NDE data.","In additional embodiments, a method of managing NDE data comprises retrieving NDE data for at least a portion of an asset, the NDE data having previously been aligned to a simulated model of the at least a portion of the asset, and determining coverage of the simulated model by the NDE data.","In still further additional embodiments, a method of managing NDE data comprises retrieving first NDE data for at least a portion of an asset, the first NDE data having previously been aligned to a simulated model of the at least a portion of the asset, and retrieving second NDE data for the at least a portion of the asset, the second NDE data having previously been aligned to the simulated model. The method further comprises determining an indication of a potential problem associated with at least one of the first NDE data and the second NDE data, including determining a trend associated with the indication in turn associated with a difference between the first NDE data and the second NDE data.","These and other advantages will be apparent in light of the following figures and detailed description.","It should be understood that the appended drawings are not necessarily to scale, presenting a somewhat simplified representation of various preferred features illustrative of the basic principles of the invention. The specific design features of the sequence of operations as disclosed herein, including, for example, specific dimensions, orientations, locations, and shapes of various illustrated components, will be determined in part by the particular intended application and use environment. Certain features of the illustrated embodiments may have been enlarged or distorted relative to others to facilitate visualization and clear understanding.","Embodiments of the invention provide for a method, apparatus, and program product to manage non-destructive evaluation (\u201cNDE\u201d) data associated with at least a portion of an asset. In particular, embodiments of the invention provide for aligning NDE data with a simulated model associated with the at least a portion of the asset for inspection thereof. In some embodiments, the NDE data is associated with inspection information. The inspection information may include at least one indication of a potential problem and a location thereof on the NDE data. In some embodiments, the at least one indication is aligned to the simulated model and viewed. In additional embodiments, a plurality of datasets of NDE data (e.g., a plurality of individual instances of NDE data), at least some of which is associated with inspection information, is aligned to the simulated model. As such, indications in turn associated with the inspection information of the plurality of datasets may be viewed for trends of indications, including trends of indications of one or more assets over time.","Turning to the drawings, wherein like numbers denote like parts throughout the several views,  illustrates a hardware and software environment for an apparatus  for managing non-destructive evaluation data consistent with embodiments of the invention. Apparatus , for purposes of this invention, may represent any type of computer, computing system, server, disk array, or programmable device such as a multi-user computer, single-user computer, handheld device, networked device, mobile phone, gaming system, etc. Apparatus  may be implemented using one or more networked computers, e.g., in a cluster or other distributed computing system. Apparatus  will be referred to as \u201ccomputer\u201d for brevity sake, although it should be appreciated that the term \u201capparatus\u201d may also include other suitable programmable electronic devices consistent with the invention.","Computer  typically includes at least one central processing unit (\u201cCPU\u201d)  coupled to a memory . Each CPU  may be one or more microprocessors, micro-controllers, field programmable gate arrays, or ASICs, while memory  may include random access memory (RAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), static random access memory (SRAM), flash memory, and\/or another digital storage medium. As such, memory  may be considered to include memory storage physically located elsewhere in computer , e.g., any cache memory in the at least one CPU , as well as any storage capacity used as a virtual memory, e.g., as stored on a mass storage device, a computer, or another controller coupled to computer  through a network interface  (illustrated as, and hereinafter, \u201cnetwork I\/F\u201d ) by way of a network . The computer may include a mass storage device , which may also be a digital storage medium, and in specific embodiments includes at least one hard disk drive. Additionally, mass storage device  may be located externally to computer , such as in a separate enclosure or in one or more networked computers , one or more networked storage devices  (including, for example, a tape drive), and\/or one or more other networked devices  (including, for example, a server). The computer may communicate with networked computers , networked storage devices , and\/or networked devices  through network .","The computer  may also include peripheral devices connected to the computer through an input\/output device interface  (illustrated as, and hereinafter, \u201cI\/O I\/F\u201d ). In particular, the computer  may receive data from a user through at least one user interface  (including, for example, a keyboard, mouse, and\/or other user interface) and\/or output data to a user through at least one output device  (including, for example, a display, speakers, and\/or another output device). Moreover, in some embodiments, the I\/O I\/F  communicates with a device that includes a user interface  and at least one output device  in combination, such as a touchscreen (not shown).","Computer  may be under the control of an operating system  and execute or otherwise rely upon various computer software applications, components, programs, files, objects, modules, etc. (illustrated as \u201capplication\u201d ) for managing non-destructive evaluation (\u201cNDE\u201d) data consistent with embodiments of the invention as described herein. Moreover, computer  may include at least one data structure  to store various data consistent with embodiments of the invention. The data structure  in turn may include at least one database, list, array, table, data entry, file, and\/or another data structure for use by the application , computer , and\/or components thereof. It will be appreciated that various applications, components, programs, objects, modules, etc. may also execute on one or more processors in another networked device coupled to computer  via the network , e.g., in a distributed or client-server computing environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["40","40","42","10","40","42","44","46","42","36","38","44","46","42","44","46"]},"In addition to second computer , the computing system may include at least one storage server  and at least one NDE data collection device  which may in turn be in communication with the network . The storage server  may be configured with the at least one data structure  consistent with embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments, and as illustrated in , the at least one data structure  is a database. The storage server  may be accessed by the first computer  in response to a request from second computer . The storage server  may be in communication with the first computer  through the network  or through a direct communication link as at . In some embodiments, the at least one storage server  is configured to store NDE data and inspection information associated therewith in the at least one data structure . The at least one storage server  may be configured as a picture archiving and communication system (\u201cPACS\u201d) and store the NDE data as a digital image in the digital imaging and communication in non-destructive evaluation (\u201cDICONDE\u201d) standard as is well known in the art.","NDE data from at least a portion of an asset  may be captured by the at least one NDE data collection device  and provided to the first computer , the second computer as at , and\/or the storage server . The NDE data may be in various modalities, including a one-dimensional representation (e.g., a waveform), a two-dimensional representation (e.g., an image), a three-dimensional representation (e.g., a volumetric image), temporal data, text, an audio recording, a video recording, a binary representation (e.g., for example, a logic high signal for a passing condition or a logic low signal for a failing condition), or combinations thereof. Similarly, the simulated model may be in various modalities, including a one-dimensional representation (e.g., a waveform), a two-dimensional representation (e.g., an image), a three-dimensional representation (e.g., a volumetric image), temporal data, or combinations thereof. In specific embodiments, the simulated model is a second dataset of NDE data.","The NDE data collection device  may include one or more cameras (e.g., to capture still images for visualization, videos for visualization, and\/or for sherography, etc.), thermograpic cameras (e.g., to capture a thermographic image), borescopes, fiberscopes, x-ray machines (e.g., to capture still images, to use with computed radiography, to use with direct and\/or digital radiography, etc.), ultrasound machines, CT scanners, MRI machines, eddy current detectors, liquid penetrant inspection systems, and\/or magnetic-particle inspection systems. Thus, the NDE data may be captured as a specific type of NDE data associated with a respective type of NDE data collection device . The asset  may be a machine, component, or other physical object, and in some embodiments may be an aircraft (e.g., a drone, a balloon, an airplane, a helicopter, etc.), a land vehicle (e.g., a trailer, a car, a truck, a tractor, a tank, a snowmobile, etc.), a sea vehicle (e.g., a skiff, a personal watercraft, a boat, a speed-boat, a yacht, a cruiser, a destroyer, etc.), a pipeline, an industrial plant (e.g., a power plant, a chemical plant, an electrical plant, etc.), a bridge, and\/or a component thereof. In specific embodiments, the asset  is a military aircraft.","NDE data may be associated with inspection information that associates the NDE data with particular information that may be useful to align the NDE data, indicate potential problems, and\/or otherwise provide data about the portion of the asset. In addition to capturing the NDE data, the at least one NDE data collection device  may be configured to capture inspection information associated with that captured NDE data. For example, the NDE data collection device  may include a user interface (not shown) in which to enter inspection information. In those embodiments, the inspection information may include data associated with a location of the asset  from which the NDE data was captured, an identification of the asset , a history of the asset , a time at which the NDE data was captured, a date at which the NDE data was captured, an identification of an NDE session associated with the NDE data, an annotation associated with the NDE data (e.g., such as an annotation that includes an indication of a potential problem), an identification of an inspector associated with the NDE data, an identification of a series of NDE data in which the NDE data was captured, an identification of the location of the NDE data in the series of NDE data, an orientation associated with the NDE data, a unique identification of the NDE data, an identification of the modality of NDE data collection device  used to capture the NDE data, and\/or combinations thereof. The inspection information may be determined automatically, captured by the first computer , and\/or captured by the second computer  before, during, or after the capture of the NDE data. For example, NDE data may captured by the at least one NDE data collection device  and viewed on the second computer . At least a portion of the inspection information for the NDE data may then be entered by a user at the second computer.","A \u201csession\u201d may include an inspection session during which NDE data is captured from an asset . A session may include the capture of a plurality of datasets of NDE data, and in particular a sequence to capture those datasets of NDE data. During a session, at least one dataset of NDE data associated with the asset  may be captured with at least one NDE data collection device , and each dataset of NDE data may be associated with at least a portion of the asset  as well as the time at which that NDE data was captured. Thus, NDE data may be associated with a session and, in some embodiments of the invention, NDE data from the same session may be aligned to a simulated model to provide a snapshot of at least a portion of an asset  at a particular time. For example, a session may include the capture of a plurality of datasets of NDE data with an x-ray machine from a spar of a wing of a plane. Specifications for the session may indicate that at least seven datasets of NDE data be captured along the length of the spar in an attempt to capture NDE data for the entire length of the spar. Aspects of the invention provide for aligning NDE data associated with the session, and thus aligning NDE data associated with the spar, then generating a display representation of the aligned NDE data to provide a snapshot of the spar at the time of the session. As a further example, aligned NDE data from previous sessions may be compared with the aligned NDE data from example session to compare the spar over time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["36","36","36","60","61","62","63","64","65","66","60","54","54","61","62","63","36","63","64","54","36","65","65"]},"Additionally, the application  may include a filtering and\/or searching component  with which to filter, and\/or search through, NDE data, indications thereof, particular assets, serial numbers, inspection times, etc. In particular, the filter and\/or searching component may be used to filter or search through a plurality of datasets of NDE data. For example, the data structure  may include a plurality of datasets of NDE data from a plurality of portions of a plurality of assets  over a plurality of sessions. The plurality of datasets may be filtered to align only NDE data for a particular portion of a particular asset  during a particular session to a simulated model. Thus, the portion of the asset  at a particular time (e.g., at the time of the particular session) may be viewed. Also for example, the data structure  may include a plurality of datasets of NDE data from a plurality of portions of a plurality of assets  over a plurality of sessions. In turn, at least a portion of the plurality of datasets of NDE data may be associated with respective inspection information that in turn includes at least one indication of a potential problem. The plurality of datasets may be filtered to align indications for a particular portion of the plurality of assets on the simulated model. Thus, indications of potential problems (e.g., for example, cracks, corrosion, etc.) associated with a particular portion of the plurality of assets  (e.g., for example, each asset may be a plane, and the particular portion may be a wing of the planes) over time (e.g., over the course of the plurality of sessions) may be viewed. Thus, a display representation that visually represents potential problems in a specific wing across a fleet of planes may be generated.","Although several components of the application  are illustrated in , one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the application  may include more or fewer components without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, the application  may include an HTML generator (not shown), a shot descriptor parser to access and search through shot descriptor data structures (not shown), and\/or another component as may be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art. Moreover, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the application  may include fewer components and one or more of the individual components - may be separate applications without departing from the scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["38","38","70","72","74","76","78","80","82","84","86","88","90","92","38","70","72","74","62","74","62"]},"The algorithms data structure  may include a plurality of alignment algorithms from which to choose an alignment algorithm with which to automatically align NDE data (as well as indications associated with inspection information that is in turn associated with NDE data) to a simulated model. Embodiments of the invention support multiple alignment algorithms to automatically align NDE data to the simulated model. For example, the alignment algorithms may include alignment algorithms to align a dataset of NDE data to the simulated model through feature based alignments, area based alignments, parallel projection algorithms and\/or other manners of alignment known to one having ordinary skill in the art. For example, feature based alignment algorithms may extract feature sets from a dataset of NDE data and the simulated model and attempt to align the two feature sets through best fit. Specifically, the features may include straight-line segments, corners, points, intensity of particular areas, etc. The feature set of the NDE data may then be compared to the feature set of the simulated model and aligned through best fit to register the NDE data to the simulated model. The alignment may include a rotation, translation, scale transformation and\/or other registration of the feature set and\/or NDE data.","Alternatively, and also for example, area matching alignment algorithms may set up a matrix to compare an area of a dataset of NDE data (e.g., the entire dataset of NDE data or a portion thereof) to an area of the simulated model (e.g., the entire simulated model or a portion thereof). Specifically, a Fourier transform of an area of the dataset of NDE data may be compared to a Fourier transform of an area of the simulated model. A translation between the two datasets may correspond to a phase shift between the two Fourier transforms thereof. As such, a function may be run on both of the Fourier transforms to align the Fourier transforms, and thus the datasets of NDE data. For example, a cross power spectrum of the two Fourier transforms may be taken, and an inverse Fourier transform of the cross power spectrum may provide an indication of at least one location that corresponds between the two datasets of NDE data. The datasets may then be aligned with reference to the at least one location. As such, the Fourier transforms may be manipulated, processed or otherwise analyzed to provide a translation, rotation and\/or scale change between the two datasets.","Also for example, the area matching algorithms may attempt to align NDE data through mutual matching of an area of a dataset of NDE data to an area of the simulated model. Specifically, the area matching algorithms may attempt to maximize mutual information between an area of the NDE data and an area of the simulated model. Although some alignment algorithms are disclosed, it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that additional alignment algorithms and alignment methods may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.","Additionally, the algorithms data structure  may include a plurality of auditing algorithms to audit an alignment of NDE data on a simulated model. The simulated model, in turn, may be stored in the simulated model data structure . Golden NDE data, which may be a blueprint, schematic, NDE data, and\/or other technical information about at least a portion of an asset , may be used to generate the simulated model. Alternatively, the simulated model may be supplied by a user without generating that simulated model from golden NDE data. Golden NDE data may be stored in the golden NDE data data structure . In some embodiments, NDE data and\/or a simulated model may be aligned with its respective golden NDE data.","The features data structure  may include data associated with a plurality of features of respective portions of an asset. For example, one portion of an asset may have a feature that may be used to align NDE data to a simulated model. An alignment algorithm may use information about features of NDE data to align that NDE data to a simulated model. The indications data structure  may include a plurality of potential problems as indicated from inspection information or as determined from the inspection of the NDE data. The alignment adjustment data structure  may include adjusted algorithm parameters for various alignment algorithms. In particular, the alignment adjustment data structure  may include adjusted algorithm parameters as determined from input by a user in response to an alignment of NDE data to a simulated model, or the adjusted algorithm parameters may be automatically determined by the application  and stored in the alignment adjustment data structure  in response to an audit of the alignment of NDE data to the simulated model. The shot descriptor data structure  may include a plurality of shot descriptor data structures which may in turn be used to determine an alignment algorithm, if any, with which to align NDE data. The stored alignment data structure  may include stored parameters for a plurality of previous alignments of a respective plurality of NDE data. For example, the stored parameters may indicate input parameters for one or more alignment algorithms as well as specify the alignment algorithms with which to align previously aligned NDE data. Upon subsequent retrieval and\/or alignment of that NDE data, the stored alignment data structure  may provide parameters to align that NDE data. Referring to , each of the data structures - may be disposed in at least one database, list, array, table, data entry, file, and\/or another data structure for use by the application , computer , and\/or a component thereof.","In general, the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention, whether implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application, component, algorithm, program, object, module or sequence of instructions, or even a subset thereof, will be referred to herein as \u201ccomputer program code\u201d or simply \u201cprogram code.\u201d Program code typically comprises one or more instructions or sequence of operations that are resident at various times in memory and storage devices in a computer, and that, when read and executed by at least one processor in a computer, cause that computer to perform the steps necessary to execute steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention. Moreover, while the invention has and hereinafter will be described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments of the invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms, and that the invention applies regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the invention. Examples of computer readable media include, but are not limited to, recordable type media such as volatile and non-volatile memory devices, floppy and other removable disks, hard disk drives, tape drives, optical disks (e.g., CD-ROM's, DVD's, HD-DVD's, Blu-Ray Discs), among others, and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links.","In addition, various program code described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application or software component within which it is implemented in specific embodiments of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is merely for convenience, and thus embodiments of the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and\/or implied by such nomenclature. Furthermore, given the typically endless number of manners in which computer programs may be organized into routines, procedures, methods, modules, objects, and the like, as well as the various manners in which program functionality may be allocated among various software layers that are resident within a typical computer (e.g., operating systems, libraries, Application Programming Interfaces [APIs], applications, applets, etc.), it should be appreciated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the specific organization and allocation of program functionality described herein.","Moreover, various program code described hereinafter may be referred to as being able to align NDE data. However, it should be appreciated that the program code is configured to align not only NDE data to a simulated model, but is also configured to align indications of potential problems to a simulated model, align first NDE data to second NDE data, align additional information to a simulated model and\/or align other data. It will be appreciated that an alignment algorithm may align NDE data to a model in a number of manners, including transforming (e.g., rotating, scaling, translating, registering, etc.) NDE data into the coordinate system for a model, transforming a model into the coordinate system for NDE data, or transforming both NDE data and a model to a common coordinate system. The embodiments hereinafter primarily focus on aligning NDE data to a model through transforming the NDE data into the coordinate system of a model; however, the invention is not limited as such.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the environments illustrated in  are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention. Indeed, those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative hardware and\/or software environments may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","10","40","102","104"]},"In addition to generating the simulated model or in response to receiving the simulated model, a plurality of features for that simulated model may be specified (block ). These features may be used to align NDE data to the simulated model. For example, a feature may include a seam, a weld, a location of a bolt, a particular straight, curved, round, and\/or other uniquely shaped area of the asset, and\/or another feature that may be used to align the NDE data to the simulated model. The computer  of  and\/or computing system  of  may also receive a plurality of alignment algorithms with which to align NDE data to the simulated model (block ) as well as a plurality of auditing algorithms with which to audit an alignment of NDE data to the simulated model (block ).","It may be advantageous to use various alignment algorithms to align NDE data collected from various types of NDE data collection devices, use various alignment algorithms to align NDE data associated with various parts of an asset and\/or otherwise have various alignment algorithms with which to align NDE data. For example, a first alignment algorithm may be more effective at aligning NDE data collected from an x-ray machine, but that first alignment algorithm may not be as effective at aligning NDE data collected from an ultrasound machine. As such, shot descriptor data structures may be generated that specify alignment algorithms, if any, to align NDE data to the simulated model (block ). In specific embodiments, a shot descriptor configuration tool may be configured to analyze a simulated model and\/or NDE data and determine from that analysis, or from manual interaction with that shot descriptor configuration tool, the alignment algorithms, if any, to align NDE data to the simulated model, and thus generate the shot descriptor data structures to align NDE data to the simulated model. A shot descriptor data structure may be associated with each NDE data collection device and list, in an order, the preferred alignment algorithms with which to align NDE data from the respective NDE collection device. Thus, for example, if a first alignment algorithm to align the NDE data produces an unsatisfactory alignment of that NDE data to the simulated model, a second alignment algorithm to align the NDE data to the simulated model may be used. In addition to specifying at least one alignment algorithm, the shot descriptor data structure may specify at least one auditing algorithm to audit an alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model to determine whether that alignment has produced a satisfactory alignment (block ). In the event that an alignment algorithm is not specified to align NDE data to a simulated model, the shot descriptor data structure may indicate that the NDE data is to be manually aligned by a user.","In addition to receiving golden NDE data, simulated models, alignment algorithms and auditing algorithms, translation information may be received (block ). For example, if the asset is an airplane a portion of the inspection information associated with NDE data may indicate that the NDE data is associated with \u201cwing2,\u201d which in turn may indicate that the NDE data is associated with a left wing of the airplane. As such, translation information may be used by a translation component to convert \u201cwing2\u201d to \u201cLWING,\u201d or another identifier. Also for example, at least some portion of the NDE data may indicate the NDE data collection device that captured that NDE data. As such, translation information may be used by the translation component to indicate the type of NDE data collection device that captured the NDE data. This, in turn, may be used to determine a shot descriptor data structure associated with that NDE data.","Finally, a confidence threshold for at least one alignment algorithm may be received (block ). In particular, the confidence threshold may be used to audit an alignment of NDE data to a simulated model. When an audit alignment determines that an alignment of NDE data to a simulated model has not reached a particular confidence threshold, the alignment may be discarded and\/or adjusted. In one embodiment, when the confidence threshold of an alignment has not been met, the alignment of NDE data to the simulated model with a first alignment algorithm is discarded and a second alignment algorithm with which to align the NDE data to the simulated model is chosen. In an alternative embodiment, when the confidence threshold of an alignment has not been met, the parameters for the alignment algorithm used to align the NDE data to the simulated model is adjusted. In a further alternative embodiment, when the confidence threshold of an alignment has not been met, a user is given the opportunity to manually adjust the alignment of that NDE data to the simulated model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 6"],"b":["120","10","40","122","124","126","128","130","132"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["140","124","142","144","74","146","74","146","148","150","148","150","152","150","152"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6","FIG. 8"],"b":["170","126","172","76","174","174","176","178","174","178","180"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"],"b":["190","130","192","194","194","196","196","198"]},"Upon selecting the alignment algorithm with which to align the NDE data to a simulated model, input parameters for that alignment algorithm may be built (block ). Input parameters for various alignment algorithms may be determined based on the translated tags associated with the NDE data (e.g., the type of NDE data collection device used to capture the NDE data) and\/or the inspection information (e.g., data concerning the asset, component, angle, orientation, or other information associated with the NDE data). The input parameters for a particular dataset of NDE data may include that the NDE data should be decimated, filtered using edge detection, rotated, oriented, noise filtered, that seed values be applied to the NDE data, that the scale of the NDE data should be adjusted (e.g., the NDE data should be enlarged or reduced), that portions of the NDE data should be deformed (e.g., some portion of the NDE data should include local distortion to account for manufacturing variances, parallax distortion, and\/or other variances), and\/or that other input parameters should be applied to the NDE data for alignment to the simulated model. Moreover, input parameters may be built at least partly based upon input parameters and\/or an alignment adjustment of a previous alignment (e.g., input parameters for a second alignment algorithm may be built or otherwise based upon the input parameters for a first alignment algorithm and\/or the alignment adjustments to an alignment by the first alignment algorithm). The input parameters may also include NDE data features and\/or a golden NDE data. Using the input parameters, the NDE data may be automatically aligned to the simulated model with the alignment algorithm (block ). As illustrated in , after the NDE data has been aligned to a simulated model (block ) the input parameters for that alignment may be fed back to build new input parameters for a subsequent alignment algorithm as at .","In response to aligning the NDE data to the simulated model, the alignment may be audited (block ). In particular, auditing the alignment may include determining a confidence of the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model and comparing that confidence to a confidence threshold associated with the alignment algorithm and specified by a shot descriptor data structure associated with that NDE data. When the confidence of the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model is unsatisfactory and\/or when the confidence threshold associated with the alignment algorithm has not been met or exceeded (\u201cNo\u201d branch of block ) it may be determined whether another alignment algorithm in the shot descriptor data structure associated with the NDE data has been specified (block ) and the sequence of operations may return to block .","Returning to block , when an alignment algorithm is not specified in a shot descriptor data structure associated with the NDE data, when the confidence of a an alignment is unsatisfactory and there is no other alignment algorithm specified in the shot descriptor data structure associated with the NDE data, and\/or when the confidence threshold of an alignment has not been met and there is no other alignment algorithm specified in the shot descriptor data structure associated with the NDE data (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ), a user interface may be provided to a user for manual alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (block ). That user interface may receive a manual alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (block ). When the confidence of an alignment of NDE data to a simulated model is satisfactory, when the confidence threshold of an alignment algorithm has been met or exceeded (\u201cYes\u201d branch of block ), and\/or after the manual alignment of NDE data to the simulated model (block ), a display representation of the aligned NDE data to the simulated model may be generated (block ) and\/or a report associated with the aligned NDE data, and thus at least a portion of the asset, may be generated (block ). In an optional step and in response to generating a display representation of the aligned NDE data to the simulated model (block ), and in particular after an automatic alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (block ), a user interface may be provided to a user for an adjustment of the alignment (block ), and that user interface may receive an adjustment of the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (block ). When the user tunes an automatic alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ) the adjustment of the alignment may be stored in an alignment adjustment data structure associated with that alignment algorithm (block ). When the user does not tune an automatic alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ) the alignment parameters of the alignment may be stored (block ) and the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model may end.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["230","232","234","236","238","240"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["250","252","254","256","258"]},"In response to selecting the projection, the second NDE data may be automatically aligned to first NDE data and\/or the first and second NDE data may be aligned to a simulated model associated with both the first and second NDE data consistent with embodiments of the invention (block ). For example, the x-ray image and CT slice may be of a fan blade of a turbine engine, and the x-ray image and\/or CT slice may be aligned to themselves and\/or a simulated model of the fan blade of the turbine engine. In response to automatically aligning the first and\/or second NDE data, the location of the indication associated with the first NDE data may be associated with a corresponding location on the first NDE data and\/or the simulated model (block ) and a display representation of the corresponding location of the indication on the first NDE data and\/or the simulated model may be generated (block ). Thus, for example, the location of an anomaly of the CT slice may be associated with a location on the x-ray image. By aligning both the CT slice to the x-ray image, the location of the anomaly may be located on the x-ray image. Similarly, by aligning both the x-ray image and the CT slice to the simulated model, the location of the anomaly may be located within the three dimensional space of the simulated model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["270","272","274","276"]},"The intensity, noise, disturbances and\/or other variations in the plurality of datasets of NDE data may be compared to some metric of expected NDE data collected with the first NDE data collection device to determine a deviation of the plurality of datasets of NDE data (block ). When there is no deviation in the plurality of NDE datasets (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ) the sequence of operations  may end (block ). When there is a deviation in the plurality of NDE datasets (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ), the deviation, and thus a potential variance of the first NDE data collection device, may be indicated (block ). This, in turn, may be transferred to an inspector that utilizes the NDE data collection device and thus informs that inspector of wear of at least a portion of the NDE data collection device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["290","292","294","296","298","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["310","312","314","316","318"]},"In response to user interaction with the display representation of selectable filtering parameters, a filter to apply to the indications to selectively filter at least one indication is determined (block ) and applied to the plurality of indications to remove that at least one indication from the aligned plurality of indications (block ). In turn, the display representation is amended to display those indications that have not been removed (e.g., the \u201cfiltered indications), and the selectable filtering parameters for the filtered indications are updated (block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["330","332","334","336"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["340","342","344","345","346","348"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["350","352","354"]},"In response to retrieving NDE data and\/or inspection information associated therewith (block ), location information associated with the NDE data and\/or the inspection information may be determined (). In particular, the determined location information may include location information specifying the at least a portion of the asset associated with the NDE data and\/or the inspection information. Additionally and\/or alternatively, the determined location information may include location information specifying the location of an indication of a potential problem in turn associated with the NDE data and\/or the inspection information. In response to determining the location information, a first location among the plurality of locations associated with the location information may be determined (block ) and a respective first location descriptor among the plurality of location descriptors associated with the first location may be assigned to the determined location information (block ). Thus, a location associated with the NDE data and\/or the location of an indication may be automatically determined and assigned to that NDE data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 7"],"b":["370","144","372","374","376","378","380","378","382","380"]},"In response to translating the element either manually or automatically, the most recently standardized element and at least one previously standardized element may be analyzed for an updated meaning (block ). In particular, the most recently standardized element and at least one previously standardized element may be compared to the semantic concepts to determine if their meaning should be updated. The sequence of operations may then determine whether the end of the string has been reached (block ). When the end of the string has been reached (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ) a new text string with at least one standardized element is output (block ). In particular, the new text string may be output and stored in inspection information associated with NDE data. When the end of the string has not been reached (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ) the next element of the text string is selected (block ) and the sequence of operations returns to block . It will be appreciated that the flowchart  may be repeated for at least a portion of translatable information associated with NDE data and\/or inspection data associated therewith consistent with embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["400","402","404","406","408","410","412"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["420","422","424","426","428","430"]},"For example, a user may wish to view indications associated with a population of a particular type of asset. The asset may be a tank, and the user may wish to view indications for all right front turret armor sections of a plurality of tanks. Thus, the user may specify a tank as the type of asset and the portion of the tanks (e.g., right front turret armor sections) that they wish to view indications for. The datasets of NDE data and inspection information associated with the right front turret armor sections of a plurality of tanks may be retrieved, and any indications therein automatically aligned to a simulated model of the right front turret armor sections of a tank. Thus, a display representation of the indications associated with the respective right front turret armor sections of a plurality of tanks may be displayed for the user to view potential population-wide problems, and any trends for indications of that particular population may be determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["440","442","444","448","450"]},"For example, a user may wish to view indications associated with a particular asset. The asset may be a particular tank, and the user may wish to view indications for the right front turret armor section of that tank. Thus, the user may specify the tank by serial number and the portion of the tank (e.g., right front turret armor section) that they wish to view indications for. The datasets of NDE data and inspection information associated with the right front turret armor section of the particular tank may be retrieved, and any indications therein automatically aligned to a simulated model of the right front turret armor section of that type of tank. Thus, a display representation of the indications associated with the respective right front turret armor section of a particular tank may be displayed for the user to view potential problems of that tank, and any trends in indications for that particular tank may be determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["460","460","462","464"]},"In response to associating the at least one range of uncertainty with at least one location on a simulated model, a location descriptor is assigned to the respective at least one location and\/or a location descriptor previously associated with the respective at least one location is determined (block ). Thus, and in some embodiments, various ranges of uncertainty may be associated with various locations, and thus various location descriptors, on a simulated model. Also in this manner, an indication specifying a location on the simulated model may be automatically associated with not only a location descriptor but also a range of uncertainty. For example, location information associated with at least a portion of NDE data and\/or location information may be determined (block ). In particular, the location information may be determined in response to receiving the NDE data and\/or location information. In response to determining the location information, a location associated with the location information may be determined (block ) and, in response to determining the location, a location descriptor associated with the location may be determined (block ). As such, the NDE data may be automatically aligned to a simulated model associated with the NDE data (block ) and a display representation of the aligned NDE data on the simulated model that includes the at least one range of uncertainty of the location may be generated (block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["480","482","484","486","488","490"]},"After determining the range of uncertainty and\/or the uncertainty probability distribution function associated with NDE data, an indication of a potential problem associated with the NDE data may be automatically aligned to a simulated model associated with the NDE data (block ) and the center of the range of uncertainty and\/or the uncertainty probability distribution function may be automatically aligned to the location of the indication (block ). Thus, the location of the indication as well as the range of uncertainty and\/or the uncertainty probability distribution function associated with the location of the indication may be generated on a display representation (). In this manner, the uncertainty in the location of an indication due to the capture of the NDE data with the NDE data collection device may be determined and displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["500","500","502","504","506","508","510","512"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["520","522","524","526","526","528","528","530","530","532","532","534"]},"In some embodiments, the non-rigid alignment algorithm attempts to align at least two portions of NDE data with at least two corresponding portions of a simulated model associated with the NDE data. The non-rigid alignment algorithm may include at least one local deformation algorithm that may be used when a first portion of the NDE data aligns with the simulated model but a second portion does not. Thus, the alignment algorithm may utilize the local deformation algorithm on the second portion and\/or the first portion in an attempt to align the NDE data to the simulated model. In alternative embodiments, a local deformation algorithm is utilized to align at least a portion of aligned NDE data to the simulated model to reduce local distortion. As such, the local deformation algorithm may be applied to at least one portion of the NDE data to more closely align that at least one portion to the simulated model. Returning to block , when the local distortion is not due to the modality of the NDE data (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ), the NDE data may be automatically re-aligned to the simulated model using the non-rigid alignment algorithm and\/or the aligned NDE data may be adjusted with a local deformation algorithm (block ). In some embodiments, the non-rigid alignment algorithm is utilized to re-align the NDE data to the simulated model (block ) when the alignment algorithm used in block  is a rigid alignment algorithm. In corresponding embodiments, the local deformation algorithm is used to adjust the aligned NDE data (block ) when the alignment algorithm used in block  is a non-rigid alignment algorithm.","Returning to block , when the local distortion is correctable through the use of the NDE data collection device model (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ), the model of the NDE data collection device and at least one structure of the NDE data and simulated model (e.g., at least one structure of the at least a portion of the asset that is associated with both the NDE data and the simulated model) may be used to adjust the local distortion of the NDE data (block ). In some embodiments, the model of the NDE data collection device includes at least one parameter to adjust NDE data associated with the respective modality of NDE data captured with that NDE data collection device. Thus, the alignment of a portion of the NDE data to the simulated model may be adjusted using the NDE data collection device model and at least one known structure common to the NDE data and the simulated model to correct local distortion.","In response to automatically re-aligning the NDE data to the simulated model using a non-rigid alignment algorithm (block ), adjusting the aligned NDE data with a local deformation algorithm (block ), or using the NDE data collection device model and at least one known structure of the NDE data and the simulated model to adjust local distortion (block ), the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model may be analyzed to determine if the alignment is parameterizable (e.g., whether the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model can be expressed through at least one parameter to align subsequent NDE data to the simulated model) (block ). When the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model is parameterizable (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ) the alignment parameters for that alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model are stored (block ). When the alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model is not parameterizable (e.g., such as when a portion of the NDE data is adjusted in blocks  or ) (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ) the adjusted NDE data itself, as well as the alignment of that adjusted NDE data, are stored (block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 48","b":["900","902","904","908"]},"In some embodiments, the coverage of NDE data on a simulated model may be determined by projecting a plurality of lines from the simulated model to the aligned NDE data and\/or from the aligned NDE data to the simulated model. In specific embodiments, the plurality of lines are projected along the axis of alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model. When the projection intersects both the NDE data and the simulated model, then it is determined that the NDE data \u201ccovers\u201d the simulated model at the point. As such, the aligned first and\/or second NDE data may be analyzed with respect to coverage of the simulated model (block ). In some embodiments, the analysis in block  may include determining information about at least one area of the simulated model covered by the first and\/or second NDE data. Alternatively, the analysis in block  may include determining information about at least one area of the simulated model that is not covered by the first and\/or second NDE data. For example, if the first NDE data covers about 20% of the simulated model, information about coverage of the simulated model may include data indicating that the percentage of coverage of the first NDE data is about 20%, and the information about coverage of the simulated model may include data indicating that the percentage of area of the simulated model that is not covered by the first NDE data is about 80%. It will be appreciated that, in some embodiments, the coverage of the simulated model may be determined with respect to more than one dataset of NDE data. In particular, the coverage may be determined with respect to a plurality of datasets of NDE data. For example, the coverage of a plurality of datasets of NDE data, including the first and\/or second NDE data, may indicate that the plurality of datasets of NDE data cover about 98% of the simulated model. Alternatively, the coverage of the plurality of datasets of NDE data may indicate that the percentage of area of the simulated model that is not covered by the plurality of datasets of NDE data is about 2%. Additionally, the coverage of the plurality of datasets of NDE data may be compared to at least one previous coverage of another plurality of datasets and the variability of coverage over time may be indicated in a statistical measure, and more specifically a chart or graph of a plurality of statistical measures.","The analysis of the first and\/or second NDE data with respect to coverage of the simulated model may be performed in one or more of a plurality of ways. For example, a point-by-point hit test of a point on the simulated model and a corresponding point on aligned NDE data may be analyzed to determine coverage. The simulated model is analyzed at the point and the first and\/or second NDE data is analyzed at a corresponding point to determine if there is matching data. The points may include a pixel or a plurality of pixels. In some embodiments, the coverage at a point may be determined by projecting a plurality of lines from the simulated model to the aligned NDE data and\/or from the aligned NDE data to the simulated model at respective points. In specific embodiments, the plurality of lines are projected along the axis of alignment of the NDE data to the simulated model at their respective points. When a projection intersects both aligned NDE data and the simulated model, then it is determined that the NDE data \u201ccovers\u201d the simulated model at the point. If there is not matching data (such as when there is simulated model data but not NDE data at the point), there is no coverage at both points. Alternatively, a vertex-by-vertex hit test, a feature-by-feature hit test, and\/or a features-by-features hit test may operate similarly to the point-by-point hit test, with the exception of focusing on a respective vertex of the simulated model, respective feature of the simulated model and\/or respective plurality of features of the simulated model, the first NDE data and\/or the second NDE data.","Furthermore, the analysis of the first and\/or second NDE data with respect to coverage of the simulated model may be performed with a floodfill algorithm. In some embodiments, a floodfill algorithm is configured to define and fill a boundary of the simulated model. It may then be determined whether the area defined by the boundary is associated with the first and\/or second NDE data. In some embodiments, the floodfill algorithm may be configured to fill in any areas of the simulated model that are not associated with the first and\/or second NDE data, while in alternative embodiments the floodfill algorithm may be configured to fill in any areas of the simulated model that are associated with the first and\/or second NDE data. From the floodfilled areas, the coverage of the simulated model, and\/or the first and\/or second NDE data, may be determined. Information about coverage of the simulated model, and\/or the first and\/or second NDE data, may be provided in a report and\/or on a display representation of the simulated model.","In some embodiments, the aligned first and\/or second NDE data may be analyzed with respect to coverage of a portion of the simulated model and\/or expected coverage thereof (block ). For example, the portion of the simulated model may be a portion associated with the first and\/or second NDE data, such as an expected portion that the first and\/or second NDE data are supposed to cover. Specifically, the particular portion of the simulated model may be defined by a region which, in turn, may be defined by a boundary (e.g., a parallelogram, a circle, an abstract boundary that follows the contours of a portion of NDE data or a simulated model, etc.). Data associated with the first and\/or second NDE data may then be compared to the edge of a boundary and\/or the area within to determine coverage. Specifically, a region of the simulated model may be established and it may be determined whether an area of the region is associated with at least a portion of the first and\/or second NDE data. Similarly, a boundary of the region of the simulated model may be established and it may be determined whether the boundary of the region is associated with a corresponding boundary in the first and\/or second NDE data, and\/or whether data associated with the boundary of the region is associated with corresponding data associated with a corresponding boundary of a region in the first and\/or second NDE data. In specific embodiments, it may be known that a particular dataset of NDE data should encompass a rectangular area defined by four lines. A line by line comparison may then be performed against the plurality of lines defining the boundary of the dataset of NDE data and the boundary of the dataset of NDE data to determine the coverage thereof. Alternatively, an area comparison may be performed against the area defined by the plurality of lines and the area of the dataset of NDE data to determine the coverage thereof. Alternatively, any of the methods described above (e.g., portion-by-portion, vertex-based, feature-based, floodfill algorithm) may be used to analyze the aligned first and\/or second NDE data with respect to coverage of the portion of the simulated model and\/or the expected coverage thereof. Information about coverage of the portion of the simulated model may be provided in a report and\/or on a display representation of the simulated model. In some embodiments, areas of the simulated model that are filled by the floodfill algorithm and also associated with the first and\/or second NDE data may be removed from a display representation of the aligned first and\/or second NDE data, leaving only those portions of the simulated model that were not covered by the first and\/or second NDE data. This allows a user to quickly view those portions of the simulated model that are not covered.","In some embodiments, the aligned first and\/or second NDE data may be analyzed with respect to coverage of a portion of the simulated model in relation to each other (block ). For example, the first NDE data may be associated with a portion of an asset and the second NDE data may be associated with the same portion. As such, the coverage of the first and second NDE data on the same simulated model may be analyzed to determine if there is missed coverage. Specifically, it may be desirable that the areas covered by the first and second NDE data match so as to indicate consistency in scans at the same or different times. When the areas don't match, those portions that are associated with first NDE data but not the second NDE data may be reported and\/or indicated. Additionally, when the areas don't match, those portion that are associated with second NDE data but not the first NDE data may be reported and\/or indicated. In specific embodiments, areas of the simulated model that are associated with first NDE data but not the second NDE data and\/or areas of the simulated model that are associated with the second NDE data but not the first NDE data may be provided on a display representation of the simulated model.","Also for example, the first NDE data may be associated with a portion of an asset and the second NDE data may be associated with an adjacent portion. As such, coverage of the first and second NDE data on the same simulated model may be analyzed to determine if there is overlapping coverage. Specifically, it may be desirable that there is at least some area of overlap between the first and second NDE data so as to ensure coverage of an asset. When there is overlap, those portions that are associated with first NDE data and the NDE data may be reported and\/or indicated. When there is no overlap but there is overlap expected (e.g., such as specified through a shot descriptor file or other data associating the first and second NDE data), those portions that should have been overlapped may be reported and\/or indicated. In specific embodiments, areas of the simulated model that are associated with overlap of the first and second NDE data and\/or areas of the simulated model that are not associated with overlap of the first and second NDE data but were expected to be associated with overlap may be indicated on a display representation of the simulated model.","In some embodiments, the statistical measure may indicate the degree of overlap of the a plurality of datasets of NDE data as well as the variability of overlap over time. For example, the degree of overlap may indicate the average degree of overlap between adjacent datasets of NDE data. More specifically, the statistical measure may indicate that the average degree of overlap between datasets of NDE data is about two to four inches. Alternatively, the statistical measure may indicate that the degree of overlap between datasets of NDE data is never less than two inches. As such, a process to obtain that NDE data may be adjusted to provide a greater or lesser degree of overlap, depending on the required degree of overlap. Moreover, a statistical measure, and more specifically a chart or graph of a plurality of statistical measures, may indicate the variability of overlap over time. When the variability of overlap over time is low, that may indicate that the method(s) used to obtain datasets of NDE data are sufficiently efficient and stable. When the variability of overlap over time is high, this may indicate that the method(s) used to obtain datasets of NDE data need improvement in reliability.","In some embodiments, and in an optional step, the analysis of any of blocks - may be used to determine if a coverage has satisfied a predetermined condition relating thereto (e.g., whether the coverage is \u201cOK\u201d) (block ). In specific embodiments, the predetermined condition may be that a particular statistical measure of coverage has been achieved or that a particular statistical measure of coverage has not been achieved. Alternatively, the predetermined condition may be that the first and\/or second NDE data did not provide proper coverage in relation to a specific region, boundary, perimeter and\/or plurality of lines that define the region, boundary and\/or perimeter (e.g., the first and\/or second NDE data did not cover the region, boundary, perimeter and\/or plurality of lines that define the region, boundary and\/or perimeter, either partially or fully), that a specific feature was not properly covered (e.g., the specific feature was not covered either partially or fully), that specific plurality of features were not properly covered (e.g., the specific plurality of features were not covered either partially or fully), and\/or that the first and second NDE data did not provide proper overlap. Thus, when the coverage has not satisfied the predetermined condition (\u201cNo\u201d branch of decision block ) the coverage deficiency may be provided in a report and\/or on a display representation of the simulated model as discussed above (block ). However, when the coverage has satisfied the predetermined condition (\u201cYes\u201d branch of decision block ) information about the coverage may be provided in a report and\/or on a display representation of the simulated model as discussed above (block ).","In some embodiments, the report may be provided as a database entry, a comma-separated value file, a printed report, a spreadsheet, an electronic document, or combinations thereof. Additionally, the report may be provided as a window generated by the program code that includes report information (e.g., the report information may be provided in a software-generated window). The report may indicate information about the coverage of simulated model with the first and\/or second NDE data. Moreover, the report may indicate data about the first and\/or second NDE data (e.g., including information from inspection data related thereto), the simulated model and\/or the coverage of a portion of the simulated model with the first and\/or second NDE data. Additionally, the report may include a display representation of the simulated model with a graphical representation of coverage thereupon.","In regard to providing the display representation of the simulated model to indicate coverage, the display representation may include a simulated model, one or more datasets of NDE data, and may be modified to change the color, pattern and\/or another aspect of a background to highlight areas of missing coverage on the simulated model. Similarly, the display representation may be modified to change the color, pattern and\/or another aspect of the background behind only the simulated model to highlight areas of missing coverage on the simulated model. For example, the simulated model is may be represented through a plurality of lines and the NDE data may be aligned and represented as discussed above. By adjusting a color of a background of a display representation to red, those areas of the simulated model that are not covered by NDE data are more easily visible. Alternatively, the display representation may be modified by changing the color, pattern and\/or another aspect of the simulated model itself. For example, the plurality of lines may have their color modified to be red such that those lines that are not covered by NDE data are more easily visible. Even further alternatively, the display representation may be modified by changing the color, pattern and\/or another aspect of aligned NDE data. For example, the aligned NDE data may be filled in, or otherwise replaced, with black boxes that occlude portions of the simulated model such that those areas of the simulated model that are not covered by NDE data are more easily visible.","Additionally, and still with regard to providing the display representation of the simulated model to indicate coverage, the display representation may be modified by highlighting those sections of the simulated model that are not covered by NDE data. Moreover, the display representation may be modified by removing portions of the simulated model that are not associated with NDE data, or alternatively removing portions of the simulated model that are associated with NDE data. Furthermore, and still with regard to providing the display representation of the simulated model to indicate coverage, those datasets of NDE data that are not providing proper coverage may be displayed on the simulated model and those vertexes and\/or features that were not properly covered may be highlighted (as discussed above) and\/or displayed on the simulated model. In the above examples, the color, pattern and\/or other aspect of the background and\/or simulated model may again be changed to more easily illustrate missed coverage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 49","b":["920","922","924","924","926","924","928"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":"FIG. 50","b":["930","932","934","936","936","938"]},"Although  refers to first and\/or second NDE data, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that one dataset of NDE data or a plurality of datasets of NDE data may be analyzed to determine the coverage thereof. Similarly, although  refers to determining at least one trend in coverage in relation to previous alignments with separate pluralities of NDE datasets, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the at least one trend may be determined in relation to the currently aligned plurality of NDE datasets. Similarly, although  refers to pluralities of NDE datasets, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that an inspection may include only one dataset of NDE data, and thus the determination of at least one trend in coverage of the simulated model may be performed in relation to at least one previous alignment with a separate NDE dataset.","Further details and embodiments of the present invention will be described by way of the following examples.","By way of example,  illustrates a display representation of at least a portion of a dataset of NDE data  that may be captured consistent with embodiments of the invention. In particular, the NDE data  of  may be captured from at least a portion of an asset, and for this example may be captured from at least a portion of a right wing of an aircraft.  illustrates a display representation of a simulated model  of that right wing of the aircraft. Consistent with embodiments of the invention, it may be advantageous to align the NDE data  on the simulated model . As such, an alignment algorithm to align the NDE data  to the simulated model  may be determined from the NDE data  and\/or inspection information associated therewith. The NDE data  may then be automatically aligned to the simulated model  with that alignment algorithm.  illustrates a display representation of aligned NDE data , and in particular illustrates the NDE data  of  rotated to align with the simulated model  of .  is a display representation  that visually represents the aligned NDE data  of  on the simulated model  of .","It will be appreciated by one having skill in the art that a plurality of datasets of NDE data may be automatically aligned with the simulated model  without departing from the scope of the invention. Subsequently, a display representation of the plurality of aligned datasets of NDE data on the simulated model may be generated. Thus, first and second NDE data may be received, a first alignment algorithm to align the first and second NDE data to the simulated model may be determined, and the first and second NDE data may be automatically aligned to the simulated model. A display representation of the simulated model with the first and second NDE data may be generated. In some embodiments, a second alignment algorithm to align the second NDE data may be determined and the second NDE data may be automatically aligned to the simulated model. In those embodiments, the display representation of the simulated model with the first and second NDE data may still be generated.","Due to the capture and transformation of NDE data, the exact location of an indication may be unknown, and the approximate location of an indication may be represented. By way of example,  illustrates a display representation  that illustrates uncertainty of a determined location for an indication on a simulated model . The display representation  visually represents two indications as at  and , and more specifically illustrates a probability density as at  and  of a distance from the determined location for the indication. Simply put, the closer to the center of the probability density  and\/or  (e.g., which may be a Gaussian distribution density), the more likely that is the actual location of the indication. For example, NDE data and\/or inspection information may indicate the location of an indication. The location of the indication may thus be indicated as a point on the simulated model  and\/or a probability density ,  at the point. In this manner, relative locations of indications may be determined.","Similarly, and by way of an alternative example,  illustrates a display representation  that illustrates an uncertainty of a determined location for an indication on a simulated model . The display representation  visually represents an indication as at , and more specifically illustrates that at least a portion  of the simulated model  may be highlighted to indicate that the portion  is associated with an uncertainty of the exact location for the indication . Specifically, a color component of at least a portion  of the simulated model  may be adjusted to indicate that the portion  is associated with an uncertainty of the exact location for the indication . For example, NDE data and\/or inspection information may indicate the location of an indication. The location of the indication may thus be indicated as a point  on the simulated model  and\/or as a portion  of the simulated model .","During inspection of an asset, at least a portion of NDE data for the asset may not be captured, leading to lapses in coverage. For example, an inspection may involve capturing a plurality of datasets of NDE data from a plurality of portions of an asset. In some embodiments, the inspection involves capturing NDE data from overlapping portions of an asset. However, when a portion of the asset is not captured, there is a lapse of coverage of the asset. As such, embodiments of the invention are configured to indicate that at least a portion of the simulated model is not aligned with NDE data. By way of example,  illustrates a display representation  of the simulated model  in which at least a portion of the display representation , and specifically at least a portion of the background thereof, has been highlighted to indicate a lapse in coverage of aligned NDE data with the simulated model . In specific embodiments, the color component of the portion of the display representation  that aligned NDE data on the simulated model  is supposed to cover, but that is otherwise not covered, may be adjusted. In this manner, the lapse in coverage may be easily located. By way of alternative example,  illustrates a display representation  in which at least a portion  of the simulated model  has been highlighted to indicate a lapse in coverage of aligned NDE data with the simulated model . In specific embodiments, the color component of the portion  of the simulated model  may be adjusted.","In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to illustrate a plurality of indications of a plurality of portions of the same type of asset, such as indicate a plurality of indications of a right wing of a fleet of similar aircraft. As such, embodiments of the invention are configured to determine at least one indication, and a location thereof, associated with NDE data and\/or inspection information from the plurality of portions of the same type of asset. Embodiments of the invention are further configured to visually represent that at least one indication on the NDE data of the plurality of portions of the same type of asset and\/or visually represent that at least one indication on a simulated model associated with the plurality of portions of the same type of asset. Indications may be searched and\/or selectively filtered and a display representation may visually represent the searched and\/or selectively filtered indications. By way of example,  illustrates a display representation  of the simulated model  in which a plurality of indications have been visually represented. The plurality of indications may be from a plurality of portions of the same type of asset, and thus illustrated on the simulated model  associated with that portion of the same type of asset. Specifically, the display representation  illustrates a search and filter component  (hereinafter, \u201csearch\/filer\u201d component ) and a selected indication information component . In some embodiments, the user may interact with the search\/filter component  to search through and\/or selectively filter the plurality of indications. At least one searched and\/or filtered indication may then be displayed. As illustrated in , the search\/filter component  includes selectable components - (e.g., components that search and\/or filter indications based on that selection) as well as specifiable components - (e.g., components that search and\/or filter indications based on the data entered into those components).","As illustrated in , the selected indication information component  illustrates information associated with a selected indication as at . It will be appreciated that the selected indication information component  may populate information fields with information from the NDE data and\/or inspection information associated with the selected indication  automatically in response to user interaction to select the selected indication . In addition to the search\/filter component  and the selected indication information component , the display representation  may also include controls - to enlarge, reduce, pan and\/or rotate the visual representation of the simulated model  and the indications. A button to save the current alignment, including saving the current zoom level, rotation, searched and\/or filtered indications, as well as other alignment information, may be provided as at .","In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to translate the location of at least one indication associated with a first part of an asset to a substantially symmetrical location on a second part of an asset, the second part of the asset being substantially symmetrical to the first part of the asset. For example, it may be advantageous to view indications associated with a left wing and a right wing on a simulated model of either the left or right wings. By way of example,  is a display representation  of the simulated model  in which a first plurality of indications have been visually represented. The simulated model  of  is associated with right wing of an aircraft. , on the other hand, is a display representation  of a simulated model  in which a second plurality of indications have been visually represented. The simulated model  of  is associated with a left wing of an aircraft. It may be advantageous to view the first and second plurality of indications on the same simulated model. As such, the locations for each of the second plurality of indications on the simulated model  of  may be transformed to locations on the simulated model .  is a display representation  illustrating the second plurality of indications at their transformed locations on the simulated model . The second plurality of indications may then be visually represented with the first plurality of indications to view trends in indications across the substantially symmetrical first and second parts of the asset. To that end,  is a display representation  of the first and second plurality of indications on the simulated model .","Although not illustrated, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the location of one indication may be transformed from a second part of an asset to a first part of an asset substantially symmetrical with the second part. Thus, although Example 5 is disclosed with regard to a first and second plurality of indications, it will be appreciated that at least one indication for either of the first and second parts may be transformed without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover, one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that indications may be shown on simulated models associated with either the first or second substantially similar part consistent without departing from the scope of the invention.","In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to align a first dataset of NDE data with a second dataset of NDE data to determine the location of an indication of a potential problem with either the first or second datasets of NDE data. By way of example,  is a diagrammatic illustration of at least a portion of a fan blade  of a jet engine. In some configurations, at least a portion of the fan blade  is hollow as indicated at void . Inasmuch as the fan blade  is configured to withstand harsh conditions during its use, imperfections in the fan blade  may be intolerable. As such, after fabrication of a fan blade , it may be desirable to inspect the fan blade . Thus, the fan blade  may be inspected by various NDE data collection devices.","In some embodiments, the fan blade  may be inspected through computed tomography (\u201cCT\u201d) to produce a plurality of slices of the blade that indicate the external and internal characteristics of that fan blade at that slice. By way of example,  is a diagrammatic illustration of the fan blade  and the location of a CT slice as at  taken through the fan blade .  is a display representation of at least a portion of a dataset of NDE data  associated with the CT slice . As illustrated in , the NDE data  may be associated with at least one indication  of a potential problem. In particular, and as illustrated, the indication  may be internal to the fan blade  and, for example, may be an accumulation of material on the inner surface of the fan blade .","After capturing the NDE data , it may be advantageous to align the NDE data  (e.g., first NDE data ) with additional NDE data (e.g., second NDE data) and\/or a simulated model associated with the fan blade . Specifically, it may be desirable to associate the first NDE data  with the second NDE data and determine the location of the indication  on both. To associate the datasets of NDE data, a plurality of projections of the first NDE data  through the second NDE data may be generated. By way of example,  is a diagrammatic illustration  of a projection of the first NDE data  through second NDE data of the fan blade  (e.g., an x-ray of the fan blade  face-on) and a three-dimensional simulated model of the fan blade  while  and  are respective projections  and  of the first NDE data  through the second NDE data  illustrating various manners in which the first NDE data  may be projected through the second NDE data  and\/or simulated model . A projection of the first NDE data  that results in an acceptable alignment on the second NDE data  and\/or simulated model  may be chosen. In this manner, the location of the indication  on the second NDE data  and\/or the simulated model  may be determined. It will be appreciated that  and  are merely exemplary to illustrate the process to align first NDE data to second NDE data and\/or a simulated model associated with both the first and second NDE data. Thus, it will be appreciated that  and  may or may not be displayed consistent with embodiments of the invention, and as such the  and  are merely illustrated of the applicants' broader inventive concept.","In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to distort at least a portion of captured NDE data. By way of example,  is a display representation of NDE data  and  is a display representation  the aligned NDE data  of  aligned with a simulated model  consistent with embodiments of the invention. However, it may be determined that the aligned NDE data  does not completely align with the simulated model . As such, and consistent with embodiments of the invention, at least a portion of the NDE data  may be determined to be locally distorted. As such, the local distortion may be analyzed to determine whether can be adjusted with a non-rigid alignment algorithm and\/or a local deformation algorithm. The local distortion may then be adjusted.  is a display representation of NDE data that has had at least a portion adjust to account for local distortion  (e.g., \u201cadjusted\u201d NDE data ). Specifically,  illustrates the NDE data  of  after it the local distortion thereof has been adjusted. It will be appreciated that the adjusted NDE data  may be re-aligned with the simulated model .  is a display representation  of the adjusted NDE data  aligned with the simulated model  consistent with embodiments of the invention.","While the present invention has been illustrated by a description of the various embodiments and the examples, and while these embodiments have been described in considerable detail, it is not the intention of the applicants to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. For example, one having skill in the art will appreciate that multiple filters may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover, one having skill in the art will appreciate that a plurality of datasets of NDE data from a plurality of portions of a plurality of assets over a plurality of sessions may be filtered as well as searched without departing from the scope of the invention, and thus embodiments of the invention should not be limited to the filtering and searching examples disclosed herein.","Additionally, and regarding highlighting a lapse in coverage, one having ordinary skill will appreciate that the lapse in coverage may be alternatively indicated other than adjusting a color component of a display representation. For example, the lapse in coverage may indicated by circling or otherwise drawing a line around the boundary of an area of a display representation associated with missing coverage, applying a texture or pattern to an area of a display representation associated with missing coverage, or other manners in highlighting an area of a display representation associated with missing coverage. Moreover, and regarding determining missing coverage, one having ordinary skill will appreciate that \u201ccoverage\u201d may refer to selective coverage or one or more portions of an asset. It may be advantageous to merely determine if specific parts of a portion of an asset are covered. Thus, \u201ccoverage\u201d may refer to whether specific parts of a portion of an asset are associated with NDE data. For example, it may be advantageous to determine if specific fasteners associated with a wing of an airplane are each associated with NDE data. As such, \u201ccoverage\u201d of the fasteners may include datasets of NDE data associated the fasteners and their immediate surroundings, but otherwise fail to include portions of the wing that are not salient to the coverage analysis. Thus, one having skill in the art will appreciate that determining coverage of a simulated model may include determining coverage of one or more distinct portions of the simulated model while ignoring other portions of the simulated model.","Thus, the invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details, representative apparatus and method, and illustrative example shown and described. Accordingly, departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of applicants' general inventive concept."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and, together with a general description of the invention given above and the detailed description of the embodiments given below, serve to explain the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 26","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 28","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 27"],"b":"670"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 34","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 35","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 37","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIG. 35","FIG. 37","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 40","FIG. 39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 41","FIG. 40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 41","FIG. 39","FIG. 39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 43A","FIG. 43B","FIG. 41","FIG. 42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 45","FIG. 44","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 46","FIG. 44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 47","FIG. 46","FIG. 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 49","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 50","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
