---
title: Minimizing problems in accessing referred content
abstract: According to an aspect of the present invention, information indicating the list of referrer documents referring to a referred document, is maintained. Thus, when the document identifier (name and directory location of the document) changes, the list of referrer documents that need to be changed can be easily identified. In an embodiment, the administrators of the referrer document are notified (e.g., by an automatic email) of the change of the document identifier of the referred document. According to another aspect of the present invention, a first mapping of the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of each web accessible page/document to a virtual link is maintained in a web server. The content server maintains a second mapping of the virtual link to the document identifier. Thus, when the document identifier changes, only the second map in the content server needs to be updated for continued access of the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970744&OS=07970744&RS=07970744
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 07970744
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090122
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The present application is a divisional of and claims priority from co-pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/908,218, entitled, \u201cMinimizing Problems in Accessing Referred Content\u201d, filed on May 3, 2005, and is incorporated in its entirety herewith.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to content management in digital processing systems, and more specifically to a method and apparatus for minimizing problems in accessing referred content.","2. Related Art","There are often scenarios in which content (\u201creferred content\u201d) from one source is referred to in the content of another source. For example, when a user accesses a web page, the web page may be defined to contain content of several files, and the web page delivered to the user contains the contents of all such files. The files thus accessed (and containing the referred content) are termed to as referred documents and the web page is termed as the referrer document.","While the referred content in the above example is provided as integral to the referrer document (for example, due to the definition of the web page), there are other scenarios in which the referred content is delivered external to the referrer document. As an illustration, many web pages often contain hyperlinks with an associated Uniform Resource Locator (URL), and a user selects the hyperlink to access the content of the (referred) document corresponding to the URL.","Users are known to experience problems in accessing referred content, typically because of changes to the document identifier of the referred documents or deletion of the referred documents themselves. A document identifier refers to a name\/string (often including directory structure where the document is located), which is used to uniquely identify the document interfacing with the system software (e.g., operating system) executing on a system from which the document is accessible.","In such situations, user accessing content are displayed messages such as \u2018file not found\u2019 or a portion of the display containing blank. It is generally desirable that such access problems be avoided.","In the drawings, like reference numbers generally indicate identical, functionally similar, and\/or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit(s) in the corresponding reference number.","Overview","According to an aspect of the present invention, data indicating the referrer documents corresponding to each referred document is maintained. Thus, when there is a change of the document identifier (either moved to a new location, deleted or renamed) of a referred document, the corresponding referrer documents which may require changes are easily identified. In one embodiment described below, the administrator corresponding to each of such identified referrer documents is notified of the change to the document identifier of the referred document.","According to another aspect of the present invention, a server (\u201cweb server\u201d), processing requests for web pages identified by corresponding Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), maintains a map of the URL to a logical link. A content server providing the document corresponding to the URL maintains a mapping from the logical link to the document identifier.","Thus, when a web server receives a request for a web page identified by a URL, the web server maps the URL to a corresponding logical link and sends the logical link to a content server. The content server maps the logical link to the corresponding document identifier and causes the corresponding content to be provided to the user system requesting the web page.","If the document identifier of the referred document changes, the content server updates the map mapping the logical link to the corresponding document identifier. Thereafter, the content corresponding to the URL received by a web server continues to be provided to user systems sending the URL.","Several aspects of the invention are described below with reference to examples for illustration. It should be understood that numerous specific details, relationships, and methods are set forth to provide a full understanding of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art, however, will readily recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other methods, etc. In other instances, well-known structures or operations are not shown in detail to avoid obscuring the features of the present invention.","Example Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","120","150","170","160"]},"Internet  generally refers to a conglomeration of network connecting various systems (here, client system  and web server ), and is implemented using protocols such as Internet Protocol (IP). Intranet  is also implemented using protocols such as IP, and is generally owned or operated by an organization providing the content\/services. Intranet  provides connectivity between web server  and content server .","Content server  may store (or otherwise provide access to) content of various web pages. Client system A may execute software such as browsers enabling a user to specify specific web pages of interest. The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) corresponding to the specified web pages are forwarded to web server  via Internet .","Web server  receives the URLs and any associated parameters, and causes the content corresponding to the URL to be served to client system . If the content is present on content server , web server  interfaces with content server  to serve the content. Often times web server  itself stores the content. Various aspects of the present invention minimize problems while providing access to the content as described below.","Method",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["160","201","210"]},"In step , content server  maintain information indicating the list of referrer documents which refer to each referred document.  illustrates an example table containing such information. Column  and  respectively contain the document identifiers of the referred and referrer documents. As depicted there in rows  and , a document with name doc (and contained in a directory \/a\/b\/c) is referred by documents doc and doc (in directory \/a\/b\/c). Column  indicates whether the referred document identifier is valid (i.e., not delete from content server ).","Continuing with reference to , in step , content server  detects a change in the referred document identifier, for example, when the referred document is moved to a different location or deleted. Such changes are often implemented in the \u2018drivers\u2019 or other components of the system software, and the detection task may be implemented associated with the drivers\/system software. Such implementations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts by reading the disclosure provided herein.","In step , content server  updates the information to reflect the change. For example, if the referred document is deleted, the corresponding row in valid column  is set to N (not valid) as depicted in row . On the other hand if the referred document is moved, the corresponding row in referred column  is modified to reflect the new document identifier (after the move).","In step , content server  notifies (e.g., by email) the modification to the administrator of each referrer document associated with the referred document. The administrator can then take appropriate action, such as changing the document identifier in the corresponding referrer documents. The flowchart ends in step .","Due to the notification to administrator, the problems in accessing content may be reduced since the administrator can take appropriate actions. One problem with the approach of above is that the administrator intervention is relied upon for corrections needed for continued access to the referred content. The below noted approach overcomes some of such problems as described below.","Alternative Approach",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"],"b":["401","410"]},"In step , a first map mapping each resource locator to a virtual link, and a second map mapping the virtual link to the document identifier of the document is maintained. Web server  may maintain the first map and content server  may maintain the second map, as respectively shown with respect to . These tables can be contained within a database.","As shown, columns  and  in  respectively contain URL and the virtual link (identifier), and columns  and  in  respectively contain the virtual link to the document identifier. Thus, a URL of http:\/\/www.mywebsite.com\/d1 is shown mapped to link by row  of , and row  of  is shown mapping link to \/a\/b\/c\/doc. The other mappings are similarly described. It should be appreciated that the two maps can be combined into a single map. In addition, web server  and content server  can be integrated as a single physical unit.","Continuing with combined reference to , A, B and C, in step , content server  detects a change in the document identifier of the referred document. The detection can be performed similar to in step  described above. In step , content server  updates the second mapping to reflect the changes. Assuming doc has been moved to a new directory a\/b\/d and with a new name ndoc,  depicts the corresponding second map. In particular, row  is shown changed to indicate the changed document identifier. The flowchart ends in step .","Due to the updating of the second map (from the logical link to the document identifier), user accesses can continue without substantial disruption even when the document identifier changes, as further described below with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["451","460"]},"In step , web server  receives a resource locator (URL) from client system . The URL may be received when a user at the client system selects a hyperlink encoding the URL in a referring document. The manner in which the web page (content of the referred document) corresponding to the URL is retrieved is described below.","In step , web server  determines the virtual link corresponding to the resource locator according to the mapping of . In step , web server  sends the virtual link to content server . The interface between web server  and content server  can be implemented using any compatible approach, as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts.","In step , content server  maps the virtual link to the document identifier using the mapping of FIG. B\/C. Since the mapping is updated to reflect any changes in the document identifier, the file\/document corresponding to the URL of step  is readily accessed. In step , content server  sends the content of the accessed document (either to web server  or client system  directly, depending on the specific approach used in the environment). The flowchart ends in step .","Thus, using the approaches described above either alone or in combination, one may minimize problems in accessing referred content. The approaches may be implemented in various embodiments. The description is continued with respect to embodiments in which the aspects of the invention are operative when appropriate software instructions are executed.","Digital Processing System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","160","150","600","610","620","630","660","670","680","690","670","650"]},"CPU  may execute instructions stored in RAM  to provide several features of the present invention. CPU  may contain multiple processing units, with each processing unit potentially being designed for a specific task. Alternatively, CPU  may contain only a single general purpose processing unit. RAM  may receive instructions from secondary memory  using communication path .","Graphics controller  generates display signals (e.g., in RGB format) to display unit  based on data\/instructions received from CPU . Display unit  contains a display screen to display the images defined by the display signals. Input interface  may correspond to a key-board and\/or mouse. Network interface  provides connectivity to a network (e.g., using Internet Protocol). In the case of web server , network interface  provides network connectivity to both Intranet  and Internet , and in the case of content server  network interface  provides network connectivity to Intranet .","Secondary memory  may contain hard drive , flash memory  and removable storage drive . Secondary memory  may store the data and software instructions, which enable digital processing system  to provide several features in accordance with the present invention. Some or all of the data and instructions may be provided on removable storage unit , and the data and instructions may be read and provided by removable storage drive  to CPU . Floppy drive, magnetic tape drive, CD-ROM drive, DVD Drive, Flash memory, removable memory chip (PCMCIA Card, EPROM) are examples of such removable storage drive .","Removable storage unit  may be implemented using medium and storage format compatible with removable storage drive  such that removable storage drive  can read the data and instructions. Thus, removable storage unit  includes a computer readable storage medium having stored therein computer software and\/or data.","In this document, the term \u201ccomputer program product\u201d is used to generally refer to removable storage unit  or hard disk installed in hard drive . These computer program products are means for providing software to digital processing system . CPU  may retrieve the software instructions, and execute the instructions to provide various features of the present invention described above.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. Thus, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents. Also, the various aspects, features, components and\/or embodiments of the present invention described above may be embodied singly or in any combination in a data storage system such as a database system."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings briefly described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
