---
title: Laser system employing harmonic generation
abstract: A laser system provides harmonic generation in a laser beam pulse. In another aspect of the present invention, a laser operably remits a laser pulse, a gaseous optical medium operably creates third or greater harmonic generation in the pulse, and a controller characterizes and compensates for distortions in the pulse. A further aspect of the present invention employs multiple optical media arranged to cause cascading harmonic generations in a laser pulse.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08208505&OS=08208505&RS=08208505
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08208505
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090514
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a Continuation of PCT\/US2007\/024171, filed Nov. 16, 2007, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/859,421, filed Nov. 16, 2006, which are both incorporated by reference herein.","This application is also a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/791,377, filed Mar. 2, 2004, which is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/265,211, filed Oct. 4, 2002, which is a Continuation-In-Part of International Application No. PCT\/US2002\/02548, filed Jan. 28, 2002, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/265,133, filed Jan. 30, 2001. All of these applications are incorporated by reference herein.","A portion of this invention was made with U.S. Government support under Contract No. CHE-0421047 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.","The present invention generally pertains to laser systems and more particularly to harmonic generation of a laser beam pulse.","It is known to use crystals to cause second harmonic generation (hereinafter \u201cSHG\u201d) in laser beam pulses. Such SHG crystals, however, are expensive and often require frequent replacement due to their hydroscopic nature leading to a reduction of their transparency and due to damage of the crystals over time, especially when used with high intensity lasers. Furthermore, U.S. Pat. No. 6,504,612 entitled \u201cElectromagnetic Wave Analyzer\u201d which issued to Trebino on Jan. 7, 2003, discusses many shortcomings of using thin SHG crystals, however, this patent teaches away from the present invention by instead employing thick SHG crystals. U.S. Pat. No. 6,504,612 is nevertheless incorporated by reference herein.","A few studies have considered third harmonic generation in hollow-core fibers, in air or in noble gases. Exemplary studies are: (a) Y. Tamaki, et al., \u201cPhase-Matched Third-Harmonic Generation by Nonlinear Phase Shift in a Hollow Fiber,\u201d App. Phys. B 67, 59-63 (1998); (b) S. Backus, et al., \u201c16-fs, 1-\u03bcJ Ultraviolet Pulses Generated by Third-Harmonic Conversion in Air,\u201d Optics Letters, Vol. 21, No. 9, 665 (May 1, 1996); and (c) C. Siders, et al., \u201cBlue-Shifted Third-Harmonic Generation and Correlated Self-Guiding during Ultra-Fast Barrier Suppression Ionization of Subatmospheric Density Noble Gases,\u201d J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 13, No. 2, 330 (February 1996). The systems of these studies, however, suffer from uncorrected pulse distortions and other undesired conditions. For example, the Y. Tamaki article found that prior high-order harmonic generation in gases, such as air, led to undesirable phase mismatching conditions, due in part to self-focusing of the pulse. But, the Y. Tamaki article employed an additional hollow fiber, and the cost and complexity disadvantages associated therewith, in an attempt to overcome the prior issues. Furthermore, R. Bartels, et al., \u201cShaped-Pulse Optimization of Coherent Emission of High-Harmonic Soft X-Rays,\u201d Nature, Vol. 406, 164 (2000), discloses pulse shapes characterized using the frequency-resolved optical gating (\u201cFROG\u201d) technique which provided only an approximation of the amplitude and phase, but not a direct measurement.","In accordance with the present invention, a laser system provides harmonic generation in a laser beam pulse. In another aspect of the present invention, a laser operably emits a laser pulse, a gaseous optical medium operably creates third or greater harmonic generation in the pulse, and a controller characterizes and compensates for distortions in the pulse. A further aspect of the present invention employs multiple optical media arranged to cause cascading harmonic generations in a laser pulse, where at least one is: zero order harmonic generation, third harmonic generation or greater than third harmonic generation. A method of shaping, focusing in a gas, and minimizing distortion in a laser pulse is also provided. A method of using plasma, created by the pulse itself, to generate harmonics of the pulse, is additionally provided.","The laser system of the present invention is advantageous over prior devices since the present invention allows for the elimination of second harmonic generation crystals in some embodiments. This reduces cost, complexity and maintenance of the laser system of the present invention. This can also eliminate the use of autocorrelation or interferometry for measuring phase distortions and compensating for them. The present invention is further advantageous by automatically characterizing and compensating for undesirable distortions in ultra-fast laser pulses, especially those incorporating third harmonic generation. Another advantage of the present invention is that air-Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan (hereinafter \u201cMIIPS\u201d) is ideally suited for pulse durations less than five femtoseconds, for octave-spanning femtosecond lasers, and femtosecond pulses of less than two optical cycles in duration. By way of contrast, it is very difficult to use crystals with pulse durations less than five femtoseconds due to the very broad pulse bandwidth. The present invention has a clear advantage when there are no crystals suitable for generating the second harmonic of the wavelength of the laser. Cascading of harmonic generation optical media additionally achieves useful harmonic generation at wavelengths that are otherwise difficult to obtain. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and appended claims, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","The present invention laser system preferably employs a noninterferometric single beam method for automated characterization and compression of amplified ultrashort femtosecond pulses that takes advantage of third order nonlinear processes in a gas, such as air. The method compensates high-order phase distortions based on Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan (hereinafter \u201cMIIPS\u201d). The accurate measurement of the spectral phase in femtosecond laser pulses is paramount to the use of phase-modulated laser pulses for femtochemistry, control of chemical reactions, and optical communications. Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan takes advantage of the influence that phase modulation has on the intensity of nonlinear optical processes. The MIIPS equipment and method are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006\/0056468 entitled \u201cControl System and Apparatus for Use with Ultra-Fast Laser,\u201d which was invented by M. Dantus, et al., and published on Mar. 16, 2006; this patent publication is incorporated by reference herein. Utilizing the method of MIIPS on third harmonic generation in air allows for spectral phase characterization and compensation without need for a crystal typically required for second order nonlinear optical processes. In addition, no phase-matching criterion is required for the third harmonic generation in air employed with the present invention, thereby eliminating pulse bandwidth limitations typically introduced by second harmonic generation in nonlinear crystals.","Referring to , a first preferred embodiment of a laser system of the present invention is ideally suited for use in a laboratory. An amplified titanium:sapphire, Legend model laser, which can be obtained from Coherent Inc., is used to produce 1 mJ, 40 fs laser beam pulses  at a 1 kHz repetition rate. The laser amplifier is seeded with a Micra model titanium:sapphire oscillator  which can also be obtained from Coherent Inc. The seed pulses are shaped by an all-reflective folded 4f pre-amplification pulse shaper  with a phase only spatial light modulator (hereinafter \u201cSLM\u201d) which can be obtained from CRi as SLM , before amplification by an amplifier . A computer controller  is connected to and automatically controls the pulse shaper.","The output laser pulse intensity is reduced to 20 \u03bcJ and focused in air with a 50 mm focal length concave mirror . The air focal point is also designated as a gaseous, nonlinear optical medium , and may alternately include argon, nitrogen or helium gas in a housing. Low incident power is required to diminish the effects of self phase modulation on the measured phase. It is possible to increase the incident power to 250 \u03bcJ with a 250 mm focal length concave mirror. The third harmonic is collimated and separated from the fundamental beam by a fused-silica prism pair . The light is then coupled into an Ocean Optics USB 2000 spectrometer , which is also connected to controller . The third harmonic spectrum is then detected by the spectrometer and recorded as a function of \u03b4 to produce the air-MIIPS traces illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"sup":["2 ","2 ","2 "]},"For three-photon excitation, in the absence of intermediate resonances as long as self-phase modulation is small, the electric field can be written as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"E","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u0394"}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"1"}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"2"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"1"}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"2"}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["-","-"],"msub":[{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"2"}]}}}},{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u2148","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03c6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u03c6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"2"}}},{"mi":"\u03c6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["-","-"],"msub":[{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03a9","mn":"2"}]}}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u00d7","\u2062"],"mi":"exp"}}}],"mo":"\u221d"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","1","2","o"]},"As in SHG MIIPS, air-MIIPS works by scanning a reference phase function, f(\u03b4,\u03c9), across the pulse's spectral width by the spectrometer. When the reference phase is f(\u03b4,\u03c9)=\u03b1 sin(\u03b3\u03c9\u2212\u03b4), the parameters, \u03b1 and \u03b3, are fixed parameters representing the binary values of \u03c0 and the pulse duration respectively. As the phase shift \u03b4 is scanned from 0 to 4\u03c0 by the spectrometer, the third harmonic spectrum is recorded by the computer controller. The \u03b4 value that produces the maximum third harmonic intensity for each frequency, \u03b4(\u03c9), is found for each order n, and the second derivative of the unknown phase is calculated using:\n\n\u03c6\u2033(\u03c9)=\u03b1\u03b3sin [\u03b3\u03c9\u2212\u03b4(\u03c9)]\n\nThe second derivative is used by the controller to determine the spectral phase \u03c6(\u03c9), which is added to f(\u03b4,\u03c9) at the shaper for another iteration of the above process, resulting in a refined result for \u03c6(\u03c9). In this way, the phase is calculated directly from the data via an iterative analytical approach. Another preferred variation uses a quadratic phase function in place of the sinusoidal phase function.\n","A second preferred embodiment of the laser system of the present invention is illustrated in . The equipment and method are essentially the same as with the first preferred embodiment except a collimating concave mirror  directs the pulse . A small portion of the THG is thereafter scattered by dust, water droplets, a prism, etc. toward a spectrometer with a CCD detector . The remainder of the ultraviolet and infrared spectrum continues to propagate for use with measurements. A photomultiplier tube or simplified spectrometer could be used in place of the CCD\/spectrometer disclosed in this embodiment. This set-up is ideally suited for a laboratory environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["61","63","65","67","21","61"]},"A remote sensing or remote working laser system of the present invention is shown in . This alternate embodiment laser system  is similar to the third preferred embodiment except that the main laser pulse  is focused by a telescope  to a gaseous nonlinear optical medium , such as atmospheric air, to create third harmonic generation in the pulse . The THG, MIIPS compensated pulse is remotely transmitted 5 or more meters (most likely greater than 10 meters) from the laser system to a targeted object or specimen. Ideally, the THG focal point should be at or near the targeted object. Such a system is used for remote identification of an undesired biological or chemical specimen, or to ablate the surface of an aerospace object  such as a missile, airplane, satellite or the like for identification or other purposes. It is also envisioned that this exemplary embodiment can be employed as a visible light-emitting filament, elongated along a portion of the pulse's path.","A fourth preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a cascading laser system  and is illustrated in . This system is similar to that disclosed hereinabove for the third preferred embodiment. The differences, however, include a first gaseous, nonlinear optical medium , a second concave mirror , and a second gaseous, nonlinear optical medium . This arrangement of two or more in-line harmonic generation units creates a cascading and harmonic generation multiplying effect on the pulse. Here a gas is employed in each optical medium  and  to cause third harmonic generation at each location. For example, an argon gas is used for the optical media and a pulse duration of about 30-40 fs is employed centered about 800 nm. Argon is desirable due to its atomic and highly polarizable nature. The first optical medium creates THG at about 266 nm and the second optical medium creates THG at about 89 nm. The cascading allows for \u201cnonlinear wave mixing\u201d of the pulse.","Alternately, combinations of crystals and a gaseous optical medium can be used in a cascading and harmonic generation multiplying process. For example, a 0.1 mm thick crystal of Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphite (KDP) or a BBO crystal having a thickness of 0.05 mm is used at either the first or second optical medium location to create second harmonic generation, and a gas is used at the other optical medium location to create third harmonic generation. It should also be appreciated that three or more optical media can be cascaded in-line and a second amplifier may be optionally provided between any pairs of optical media.","Referring to  and the air-MIIPS TL graph in , the features in the MIIPS trace show an alternating intensity pattern. The changes in the intensity are due to the fact that sinusoidal phase modulation can be used to prepare pulses with a temporal asymmetry. Time-asymmetric pulses are those that change if time is reversed. For example, when the phase function is one period of the sine function in the frequency domain, the pulse, in the time domain can be described as a progression of increasingly stronger pulses ending with one that is greatest in intensity. The phase between the sub-pulses alternates. By changing the phase to minus-sine the temporal symmetry is reversed, in this case the most intense feature precedes the sub-pulses. This feature is well suited for use with micromachining or for medical surgery.","When lasers interact with matter, in most cases the temporal symmetry of the shaped pulse matters. For example, with a sine function one can use the preceding sub-pulses to cause molecular alignment, or to promote the motion of atoms away from their equilibrium position thus enhancing the probability of ionization and dissociation. This effect is manifested in MIIPS as an enhanced signal, and in micromachining as an enhanced laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (\u201cLIBS\u201d) signal.","There are a number of strategies that can be used to control the temporal symmetry of shaped laser pulses. A nonlimiting example of temporal asymmetry is as follows:\n\n","In other words, temporally asymmetric pulses increase or decrease in intensity as a function to time. They can be created using a cubic or a sinusoidal phase function. Pulses that start with high intensity and then decrease are ideal when there is a threshold; for example, in micromachining, ablation, plasma generation, and filamentation. Pulses that start with a lower intensity are ideal when the process requires molecular alignment. Then the slow increase of the laser intensity gives the molecules a chance to align before the more intense part of the laser arrives and ionizes them.","Plasma Harmonic Generation","An alternate embodiment of the present invention laser system uses plasma to cause harmonic generation rather than a crystal. The plasma is created through ionization of the workpiece or targeted specimen, and otherwise acts like the air focal point and air-MIIPS described with the previous embodiments herein. Odd or even numbered harmonic generation can be created depending upon the type of transmission and specimen interface. For example, an air transmission and an airborn, gaseous chemical specimen can create third harmonic generation from the associated plasma. As a further example, a liquid transmission and silicon wafer specimen can create SHG from the associated plasma. The plasma is created by the pulse itself ablating the specimen through ionization. The plasma generates harmonics in the pulse that can subsequently be used for MIIPS characterization and compensation of the phase distortions. An exemplary micromachining system and method are disclosed in International PCT Patent Application No. PCT\/US2007\/008878 entitled \u201cLaser Material Processing System\u201d invented by Marcos Dantus and filed on Apr. 9, 2007; this application is incorporated by reference herein. When the laser beam is focused on the medium to create a plasma, the intensity or spectrum of the harmonics of the pulse produced by the plasma is used to characterize the pulses and compensate for phase distortions in the pulses either in a repetitive and automatically controlled manner, or with a fixed shaper set to predetermined values (based on prior tests or calculations).","MIIPS Variation","A MIIPS variation is as follows. Conceptually, MIIPS is based on the observation that for a given frequency \u03c9, the SHG is maximized when the second derivative of the phase is zero. The reason for this is that when the second derivative of the phase is zero there is only constructive multiphoton intrapulse interference (hereinafter \u201cMII\u201d). When the second derivative of the phase is not zero there is destructive MII and this suppresses nonlinear optical (\u201cNLO\u201d) processes. This can be summarized in one equation of MIIPS: f\u2033(\u03c9,\u03b4)\u2212\u03a6\u2033(\u03c9)=0, where \u03b4is the parameter in the reference phase function for which the NLO signal at frequency \u03c9 is maximized. This condition provides a direct measurement of the second derivative of the unknown phase in terms of the reference phase, because when the NLO is maximized \u03a6\u2033(\u03c9)=f\u2033(\u03c9,\u03b4) is known. Therefore, for every frequency \u03c9, the reference phase f(\u03c9,\u03b4) that maximizes the NLO process is found in the measured scan.","Referring to , programmed computer software instructions  for MIIPS use a pulse shaper to successively introduce a set of calibrated reference spectral phases f(\u03c9,\u03b4) to the pulses, with unknown phase distortion \u03a6(\u03b4), and measures the resulting NLO spectra. Alternatively, the reference phase can be introduced by scanning a prism or a grating. The NLO process can be second harmonic generation, third harmonic generation, terahertz generation, or any higher harmonic generation. In some cases, where the spectrum is not available, it is possible to run MIIPS by more simply recording the intensity of the NLO process without the full spectrum. In this case, recording the total two-photon excitation or three-photon excitation should work properly. The material is, for example, zinc oxide or gallium nitride powder.","Once \u03a6\u2033(\u03c9) is determined, double integration results in \u03a6(\u03c9), which can be used for accurate phase compensation by subtraction to achieve TL pulses. A MIIPS scan can be visualized in a two dimensional contour plot showing the NLO intensity as a function of \u03c9 and \u03b4, as is illustrated in . When the reference function is f(\u03c9,\u03b4)=\u03b4(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9), the quadratic reference phase, a \u03b4 scan results directly in \u03a6\u2033(\u03c9). When the reference function is f(\u03c9,\u03b4)=\u03b4(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9)\u2235\u03b3(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9), the cubic reference phase, a \u03b4 scan results in diagonal lines with a slope proportional to \u03b3, when correcting for that slope on obtains two measurements for \u03a6\u2033(\u03c9), each corresponding to the plus or minus sign of \u03b3. When the reference function f(\u03c9,\u03b4)=\u03b1 sin [\u03b3(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9)-\u03b4] is used, the sinusoidal reference phase, where \u03b4 is a parameter scanned across a 4\u03c0 range, the features corresponding to \u03b4(\u03c9) for TL pulses are diagonal parallel lines separated by \u03c0. The choice of reference phase is determined by the user, however, sinusoidal phases are preferred for very accurate results. Nevertheless, a quadratic phase is very simple to implement and gives an excellent first scan. The accuracy of the cubic phase should be as good as that of the sinusoidal phase. It is preferred to run one iteration with the quadratic phase and then run subsequent iterations with the cubic phase.","The target phase residue is set as the minimum deviations tolerable by the user. Typically, distortions are reduced to 0.1 rad across the spectrum. One can also define the parameter \u03c4\/\u03c4, where \u03c4 and \u03c4are the calculated pulse duration by Fourier transform of the spectrum of the laser with and without the residual phase distortion. MIIPS values with this embodiment should routinely reach the 1.01 level and in some cases are even lower than 1.001.","When the spectrum of the NLO process cannot be measured or is unknown, and one can only measure the integrated NLO intensity, then the cubic or sinusoidal reference phases are preferred. The phase retrieval then requires measuring the position and width of the maximum NLO. The spacing between the maxima gives the quadratic dispersion and the difference in width gives the cubic dispersion when using a sinusoidal function. The goal is to obtain equally spaced features of equal width. In this situation one cannot correct higher order distortions as with the MIIPS that uses the spectroscopic information.","Programmable computer software instructions , shown in , are stored in the controller. This software automatically calculates, determines and controls the laser and pulse shaper or gratings\/prisms based upon the sensed signals from the spectrometer. It is noteworthy that this simpler approach to MIIPS does not always require a dedicated pulse shaper, but instead can use a pair of less expensive gratings or prisms. For example, the MIIPS unit can use the amplifier and compressor gratings. Alternately, a fixed shaper can be employed for correcting the pulse distortion based on the new MIIPS software calculations. Especially for pulse durations of 5 fs or less, when MIIPS is used with a quadratic phase function instead of a sinusoidal function, a single scan is needed to measure the phase distortions with an accuracy similar to 0.5%.","Dentistry","The present invention laser system and method are ideally suited for use in performing dentistry. For example, a Ti:Sa femtosecond laser using a pulse energy of about 300-400 \u03bcJ and a pulse repetition rate of about 3 kHz is expected to achieve an ablation rate of about 1 mm\/min on the dentine surface of a human tooth. The laser pulse is shaped and MIIPS is preferably employed to reduce undesired pulse distortions. The pulse creates plasma which can optionally be employed instead of a crystal. A pulse duration equal to or less than 120 fs is preferred for dental surgery which includes drilling.","Self-Diffraction MIIPS","Another variation of the laser system of the present invention employs self-diffraction Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan methods and systems. Reference should be made to . Self-diffraction is essentially the same as four wave mixing and transient grating. Self-diffraction MIIPS is particularly useful in characterizing ultraviolet pulses for which SHG crystals are unavailable. Self diffraction removes the wavelength restrictions of SHG crystals, making it work for any wavelength from the hard-UV to the far-infrared.  shows infrared, transform limited pulses expected with self-diffraction MIIPS.","A laser system  includes an emitted fs laser pulse  which is self-diffracted by a mask  having a pair of apertures. Mask  blocks all but two small regions of the amplified pulse (although additional apertures can alternately be used). The resulting beams are then focused on a nonlinear medium  by a lens  and the self-diffracting signal  is detected by a compact fiber-coupled spectrometer. A 100 \u03bcm quartz plate and a 250 \u03bcm sapphire plate are used for the IR and UV pulses, respectively. While transform limited pulses are used, a small quadratic and cubic dispersion are apparent in the feature spacing and angle; these distortions can be measured and compensated for using the MIIPS systems and methods discussed hereinabove. The traces in  are parallel and equidistant features indicating TL pulses using infrared pulses. Unlike in the prior FROG method, the self-diffraction of the present invention does not force a delay in the pulses, does not require a vacuum and can be used with a crystal (or without, using air or plasma instead) even for UV pulses.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed, it should be realized that other variations may alternately be employed. For example, the gaseous nonlinear optical medium can be used to generate zero order harmonic generation (known as optical rectification), fifth order harmonic generation or seventh or greater harmonic generation, in a compensated pulse. Further for example, it may be desirable to provide a 1 \u03bcm Yttrium or 1.5 \u03bcm Erbium laser to create fifth harmonic generation in a gas. Moreover, the dual beam FROG procedure can be used in combination with cascading optical media although various advantages of the preferred embodiment may not be realized. It is alternately envisioned to employ a pulse duration of less than 5 fs with air-MIIPS or other nonlinear gaseous optical media, and without a crystal. It is intended by the following claims to cover these and any other departures from the disclosed embodiments which fall within the true spirit of this invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
