---
title: Methods and apparatus for antimonide-based backward diode millimeter-wave detectors
abstract: Example methods and apparatus for Antimonide-based backward diode millimeter-wave detectors are disclosed. A disclosed example backward diode includes a cathode layer adjacent to a first side of a non-uniform doping profile, and an Antimonide tunnel barrier layer adjacent to a second side of the spacer layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08592859&OS=08592859&RS=08592859
owner: University of Notre Dame du Lac
number: 08592859
owner_city: Notre Dame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090527
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTEREST STATEMENT","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND OF RELATED ART","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent is an International Application claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/056,278, entitled \u201cMethods and Apparatus for Antimonide-Based Backward Diode Millimeter-Wave Detectors,\u201d filed on May 27, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","This disclosure was made, in part, with United States government support from the National Science Foundation (NSF), grant No. ECS-0506950 and grant No. IIS-0610169. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.","The present disclosure relates to low noise detectors, and in particular, to antimonide-based backward diode millimeter-wave detectors.","The unique propagation characteristics of millimeter-waves, including the ability to penetrate obstacles like fog, dust, fabric, and light building materials make them candidates for detection, imaging and remote sensing under adverse conditions. Unlike ionizing radiation emitted through the use of X-ray imaging systems, millimeter-waves engender fewer safety concerns around humans and animals. Additionally, because humans and animals emit a natural radiation that includes a portion of the millimeter-wave spectrum, imaging systems designed to detect such radiation may identify objects, such as, for example, weapons and\/or contraband hidden underneath clothing when such objects block the naturally emitted radiation. At least one benefit realized by detecting naturally-emitted (e.g., human) millimeter-wave radiation is that detection systems do not need to employ a radiation source\/emitter when scanning for objects.","Low-level high-frequency millimeter-wave signals may also facilitate improvements in fields of communication, imaging, medial diagnostics, avionics, and\/or radiometry. In some fields of interest, relatively high standards of repeatability and resolution are necessary to accomplish one or more tasks, such as scientific and\/or industrial radiometry applications. Some devices currently employed to detect millimeter-wave signals include Schottky diodes as direct square-law detectors. However, to achieve a sufficiently low junction resistance for high-efficiency impedance matching at millimeter-wave frequencies, Schottky diodes are typically biased and\/or implemented in conjunction with one or more amplifiers in an effort to minimize detection noise. In some instances that demand a low noise floor, multiple stages of pre-amplifiers are necessary, each currently having a cost in the thousands of dollars.","Technologies for millimeter-wave detection have been explored in recent years for applications in navigation, avionics, security screening, and chemical sensing. Detection, imaging, and\/or radiometry of millimeter-waves may be accomplished using devices made with Silicon (Si), Germanium (Ge), GaAs, or other semiconductor materials in an effort to provide low noise, high pixel density, high nonlinearity and\/or curvature, and\/or relatively fast frequency responses. For example, Schottky diodes have been employed for such detection purposes due to their low forward turn-on voltage, fast frequency response and high bandwidth. While some Schottky diode implementations include external biasing, which introduces flicker noise (e.g., 1\/f noise), unbiased implementations of Schottky diodes still generally suffer from strong sensitivity changes with temperature and may have undesirably large junction resistances. Further, Schottky diode temperature dependence directly influences diode curvature.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mo":"\u2202","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},{"mo":"\u2202","msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}}],"mo":"\/"},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"I"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"V"}],"mo":"\/"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":"\u2264","mfrac":{"mi":"q","mrow":{"mi":["k","T"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}]}]}}}},"Example Equation 1 illustrates the curvature coefficient, \u03b3, which is the quotient of the second derivative of current-to-voltage divided by the first derivative of current-to-voltage. The curvature coefficient (\u03b3) serves as at least one industry-used metric to quantify detector nonlinearity (and hence sensitivity) at zero bias. However, as described above, Schottky diodes and\/or other thermionic devices exhibit a fundamental performance limit as expressed in Equation 2, in which q is the electron charge, k is the Boltzmann constant, and T is the absolute temperature. Example Equation 2 is independent of device design, and results in a fundamental limit on Schottky diode curvature. Generally speaking, a device exhibiting relatively highly nonlinear current-voltage characteristics at zero bias translates to improved voltage sensitivity values for that device.","Ge-based backward tunnel diodes have also been studied in view of their zero bias nonlinearity. While zero bias devices simplify detector driver circuitry and minimize instances of added noise (e.g., flicker noise), Ge-based backward diodes exhibit significant manufacturing challenges that prevent cost judicious mass-producible devices having functional tolerances. Similar manufacturing challenges exist for GaAs-based planar-doped barrier diodes.","Example methods and apparatus described herein include InAs\/AlSb\/GaSb backward diodes employed for millimeter-wave square-law power detection. Also described herein is, in part, a heterostructure design with a low junction capacitance, a low junction resistance, and a high curvature coefficient as compared to previously known designs. The example heterostructure design described herein includes a voltage sensitivity, which is directly proportional to the curvature coefficient that is improved by, for example, approximately 31% as compared to prior reports of devices having similar barrier thicknesses. These devices rely on, in part, quantum mechanical tunneling as a basis of operation. As such, such devices are not subject to one or more curvature limitations, such as those expressed above in Equation 2. The junction capacitance is also reduced by, for example, approximately 25% (e.g., 9.5 fF\/\u03bcm).","Improved sensitivity and decreased junction capacitance are realized, in part, by incorporation of a p-type \u03b4-doping plane with an example sheet concentration of 1\u00d710cmin an example n-InAs cathode layer. The combination of low resistance (and thus Johnson noise) and high sensitivity result in an estimated noise equivalent power (NEP) of 0.24 pW\/Hzat 94 GHz for an example conjugately-matched source, while the reduced capacitance facilitates wideband matching and increases the example detector cutoff frequency. These antimonide (Sb)-based detectors have promise with, for instance, improving the performance of passive millimeter-wave and submillimeter-wave imaging systems.","Direct detection of millimeter-waves with zero bias square-law detectors may be particularly attractive for passive imaging applications because of the reduced 1\/f noise that results from the absence of an external bias. Compared to alternatives including, but not limited to Schottky diodes, Ge backward diodes and GaAs planar-doped barrier (PDB) diodes, example InAs\/AlSb\/GaSb detectors demonstrate superior performance, with high sensitivity, high cut-off frequency, low noise, and favorable temperature-dependence. While low barrier zero bias Schottky diode detectors with tunable barrier heights have been reported at high frequencies, such diodes exhibit strong sensitivity changes with temperature compared to Sb-based tunnel diodes, particularly because the curvature (\u03b3) of Schottky diodes is typically limited to \u03b3\u2266q\/kT, as described above. At room temperature (T=300 K), \u03b3\u226638.5 Vfor PDBs or Schottky diodes. On the other hand, the curvature of the example tunneling detectors described herein is not bounded by q\/kT, and prior demonstrations have shown curvatures as high as 70 Vfor Ge-based devices. High curvature (\u03b3), low capacitance, C, and modest junction resistance, R, are some example design factors to produce low noise detectors.","Reduction in Rfor Sb-heterostructure detectors has been achieved, in part, by reducing the tunnel barrier thickness from 32 \u212b to approximately 7 \u212b. However, reducing the barrier thickness alone also resulted in a corresponding decrease in curvature coefficient from 39 to 32 V. Described in further detail below are performance characteristics of thin-barrier Sb-based millimeter-wave detectors, in which some example heterostructure designs exhibit a measured curvature, \u03b3, of 42.4 V. Additionally, an example measured unmatched sensitivity, \u03b2v, of 4200 V\/W is realized by the methods and apparatus described herein, which is consistent with expectations from \u03b2=2Z\u03b3. This example curvature exceeds the theoretical limits for Schottky detectors, and may be achieved while simultaneously reducing the junction capacitance, C. Improvements in sensitivity and capacitance may be obtained by tailoring the doping profile to include a p-type non-uniform (e.g., delta (\u03b4)-doping plane, ramp doping, pulse doping, etc.) in the heterostructure to optimize the charge carrier distribution within the example device(s). The example device design(s) increase the zero bias sensitivity and further lower the junction capacitance without significantly compromising the junction resistance. Such example characteristics are particularly applicable with, for instance, improving performance of low-noise millimeter-wave and sub-millimeter-wave detectors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","112","114","116","118","114","116","110","110","112","114","110"],"sup":["+","19 ","\u22123","+","19 ","\u22123","17 ","3","12 ","\u22122","17 ","\u22123","+","19 ","\u22123"],"sub":["0.1","0.9"]},"In the illustrated example of , the thicknesses for the device structure  are provided for example purposes and not limitation. In some examples, greater or lesser thicknesses may be employed for the GaAs substrate , the tunneling anode contact layer , the anode layer , the undoped AlGaSb layer , the tunnel barrier , the spacer layer , the cathode layer , and\/or the contact layer . Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the layer thicknesses may have a range of values in keeping with the described examples. Additionally, doping concentrations for the aforementioned layers of the example device structure  are provided for example purposes only and not by way of limitation.","Generally speaking, the example tunnel barrier , the undoped AlGaSb layer , and the anode layer  are referred to as an Antimonide (Sb) substructure . Additionally, the example cathode layer , doping plane , and the spacer layer  are referred to as a cathode substructure . While the example doping plane  of  includes a Beryllium delta-doping plane, one or more alternate dopants may be employed. Moreover, one or more alternate non-uniform doping profiles may be employed including, but not limited to ramped doping profiles and\/or pulsed doping profiles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"sup":["2 ","\u22121 "],"b":["100","205","210","210","220","222","224","224","112","108","114","110","205"],"sub":["j","0.1","0.9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","304","316","302","306","302","304","306","308","114","110","310"],"sub":["f ","V","S"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}]},"As shown in the example Equation 3, device  sensitivity also improves because sensitivity (\u03b2) is approximately directly proportional to the improved curvature coefficient (\u03b3), within typical approximations of an operational frequency well below the cutoff frequency of the detector.","In addition to the improvement in sensitivity (\u03b2), a lower junction capacitance, C, may also be realized through the inclusion of the non-uniform doping plane , such as a \u03b4-doping plane, in the example cathode substructure . A junction capacitance versus bias chart  is shown in , which was extracted from example bias-dependent on-wafer s-parameter measurements. In the illustrated example of , the junction capacitance (C) of a uniformly doped device  and\/or a non-uniformly doped device  (e.g., a \u03b4-doped device) depends approximately linearly on (a) the applied bias for a given heterostructure, and (b) the specific capacitance for the given heterostructure.  illustrates, in part, that the example \u03b4-doped detector  at zero bias is, in one example, 13 fF\/\u03bcm, which is approximately 25% lower than that of devices without \u03b4-doping in the cathode. The p-type \u03b4-doping facilitates, in part, a lower capacitance by reducing the accumulation of electrons adjacent to the AlSb barrier  in the InAs cathode . Such effects of the p-type \u03b4-doping are also evident via the example band diagrams  of , in which vertical lines denote computed centroids of incremental charges for a small changes in applied bias.  illustrates junction resistance (R, see trace ) and junction capacitance (C, see trace ) data extracted from on-wafer s-parameter measurements as a function of device area .","Returning briefly to , a left-most solid vertical line  represents the centroid of incremental electron distribution for the example \u03b4-doped structure, and a right-most solid vertical line  represents the centroid of incremental hole distribution for the example \u03b4-doped structure. On the other hand, a left-most dashed vertical line  represents the centroid of incremental electron distribution for an example uniformly doped structure, and a right-most dashed vertical line  represents the centroid of incremental hole distribution for the example uniformly doped structure. As shown by comparing the example \u03b4-doped structure centroids ( and ) with the example uniformly doped structure centroids ( and ), the example \u03b4-doped structure exhibits a larger spacing between hole and electron charge centroids (W). As a result, a lower capacitance is realized when employing the \u03b4-doped structure as compared to the uniformly-doped structure. Self-consistent Poisson\/Schrodinger calculations suggest that the \u03b4-doping plane may increase the electron-hole separation from, in one example, 153 \u212b to 239 \u212b, for a reduction in capacitance of approximately 39%, which is in reasonable agreement with the measured capacitance change. Reduced capacitance may improve the intrinsic cutoff frequency, f=1\/(2\u03c0RC), and also reduce a reactive component of the example detector impedance and ease the realization of broadband matching. In this expression, Ris the series resistance of the device, which is primarily limited by contact resistance. For \u03b4-doped devices, an example Rof 26\u03a9 may be realized, which results in an f=620 GHz, which represents an example rather than a limitation. In other words, further improvements in such contact resistances are possible. A comparison of key figures of merit for uniformly-doped and \u03b4-doped structures with 10 \u212b thick tunnel barriers as an example is shown below in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"\u03b2","C","R","NEP"]},{"entry":["Device Type","\u03b3 (V)","(V\/W)","(fF\/\u03bcm)","(\u03a9 \u03bcm)","(pW\/Hz)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u03b4-Doped","42.4","4200","13","2340","0.24"]},{"entry":"Cathode"},{"entry":["Uniform","32","3220","17.2","1340","0.29"]},{"entry":"Cathode"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As shown in Table 1, the junction resistance of the example \u03b4-doped structure is increased from 1230 \u03a9\u03bcmto 2340 \u03a9\u03bcm. While this increase in Rleads to increased thermal noise, the overall detector NEP is improved because the increase in \u03b2more than offsets the increased thermal noise.","The millimeter-wave performance of \u03b4-doped detectors is also assessed, as described in further detail below.  shows a measured on-wafer voltage sensitivity graph  for the example detector driven by a 50 \u03a9RF source from 1 to 110 GHz. The example source was coupled to the device through a coaxial bias tee and on-wafer probes, and the detector voltage was measured at a DC arm of the bias tee. In the illustrated example of , the low frequency voltage sensitivity, \u03b2, is 4200 V\/W, which is an improvement of approximately 31% from the previously-reported 3200 V\/W for an identical device except with uniformly-doped cathode. An example nonlinear device model was extracted using bias-dependent s-parameter measurements and the example circuit model shown in the inset () of . In this example model, the series inductance, pad capacitance, and series resistance are bias independent, while the junction resistance and capacitance vary with bias. The parameters were found using nonlinear least-squares optimization of the circuit model to the measured s-parameters, with an additional constraint that the junction and series resistances were related to the measured DC I-V characteristics through example Equation 4, shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"I"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"V"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["R","S"]},{"mi":["R","j"]}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},"Based on, in part, the aforementioned least-squares optimization of the circuit model, a Cof 12 fF, Lof 65 pH, and Rof 26\u03a9 were extracted, and the junction capacitance (C) is shown in . The frequency-dependence of the sensitivity predicted using the extracted nonlinear model agrees well with the measured sensitivity, as shown in . Extrapolation of the example circuit model projects an unmatched sensitivity of 2000 V\/W at 400 GHz. This experimental study of the frequency response shows the potential of Sb-heterostructure diodes as detectors at W band through Y-band and beyond.","The optimum sensitivity, \u03b2, that may result from the inclusion of a lossless matching network between the source and detector was projected from the measured unmatched sensitivity with an example 50-\u03a9 source in conjunction with the measured s-parameters. The low-frequency \u03b2with an example conjugately matched source is calculated to be, in this example, 8.0\u00d710V\/W, and is 3.0\u00d710V\/W at 94 GHz. In view of these example devices experimentally showing thermal-noise limitations for small incident powers, the corresponding noise equivalent power for the detector operated at 94 GHz is estimated to be 0.24 pW\/Hzbased on the measured junction resistance. This is an improvement of approximately 17% over the NEP of a typical uniformly doped cathode device. The combination of high sensitivity and low noise makes the example Sb-heterostructure detectors described herein promising for passive millimeter-wave imaging sensors without RF pre-amplification.","Table 2 illustrates additional example figures of merit for the three example heterostructures shown in , in which noise equivalent temperature difference (NETD) values are calculated for matched sensitivity with an ideal band-pass lossless matching network at 94 GHz. These are example data from fabricated devices and do not imply fundamental limitations, but do illustrate example observed trends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Structure","10 \u212b","7 \u212b","7 \u212b with \u03b4-doping"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Relative \u03b3 (%)","100","88","100"]},{"entry":[{},"R(\u03a9 \u00b7 \u03bcm)","1045","353","369"]},{"entry":[{},"C(fF\/\u03bcm)","8.5","10.5","9.5"]},{"entry":[{},"R(\u03a9 \u00b7 \u03bcm)","22","28","23"]},{"entry":[{},"f(GHz)","852","541","729"]},{"entry":[{},"NETD (K)","7.14","3.51","3.24"]},{"entry":[{},"RL = 16 dB"]},{"entry":[{},"\u0394f(GHz)","30","71","75"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"As illustrated by Table 2, implementation of the non-uniform doping, such as \u03b4-doping, with an Sb tunnel barrier breaks previous tightly linked trade-offs between junction resistance (R) and curvature (\u03b3). In Table 2, for ease of comparison, the curvature (\u03b3) has been normalized to the value obtained for the 10 \u212b barrier devices. By introducing the \u03b4-doping, curvatures are improved while maintaining lower values of R.","Example InAs\/AlSb\/GaSb backward diode detectors with an improved heterostructure design have shown a high curvature of 42.4 Vand reduced capacitance. This corresponds to an unmatched sensitivity of 4200 V\/W, exceeding the theoretical limits of Schottky diodes. The improved sensitivity and decreased junction capacitance for the example detectors described herein originate from the example modified device heterostructure, which incorporates a fully-depleted p-type \u03b4-doping plane with sheet concentration of 1\u00d710cmin the n-InAs cathode layer. The high sensitivity and low junction resistance result in an estimated NEP of 0.24 pW\/Hzat 94 GHz for a conjugately-matched source, making it a promising candidate for passive imaging sensors at room temperature without RF pre-amplification. Moreover, example detectors with this heterostructure have reduced junction capacitance that offers the potential for operation through Y band and beyond.","Although certain example methods and apparatus have been described herein, the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary, this patent covers all methods and apparatus fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
