---
title: User interface update signaling
abstract: A system is provided for user interface update signaling. The system includes a user interface that executes on a mobile device, a signaling server, and a background application. The signaling server receives an update from a third party application and sends at least some of the update to the mobile device. The background application executes on the mobile device, receives the at least some of the update, and stores the at least some of the update in a file in the mobile device. The background application also provides a uniform resource locator that specifies where the file is located to the user interface to enable the user interface to display the at least some of the update.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08498657&OS=08498657&RS=08498657
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08498657
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090611
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","REFERENCE TO A MICROFICHE APPENDIX","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["None.","Not applicable.","Not applicable.","A mobile device may communicate with third party applications via data sessions transmitted over a communications network. In contrast to desktop computers which may be connected to data sessions for extended periods of the time, a data session may be initiated each time that data is to be communicated between a mobile device and a third party application. However, the initiation of data sessions may not be efficient for communications between a mobile device and some third party applications. For example, a social network application may initiate a data session to send an update to a user's mobile device whenever another user in the user's social network provides an update. If the social network application initiates a data session for each of many updates to the user's mobile device, the user may be charged an additional amount for each of the many data sessions that provide the updates.","Alternatively, if the user initiates a web browser to request updates from the third party application, the user may occasionally forget to initiate the web browser and request updates for a significant period of time, thereby resulting in the user eventually viewing many stale updates that provide information that is no longer timely. If the user's mobile device periodically initiates a data session to request updates from the social network application, the periodic initiation of data sessions may occur too frequently or not frequently enough. If the other users in the user's social network provide many updates, the mobile device requesting updates from the social network application every two hours may result in receiving many stale updates long after the stale updates were available. If the other users in the user's social network provide few updates, the mobile device requesting updates from the social network application every two hours may result in initiating many data sessions for which no update is available, which also may result in the user being charged an additional amount for initiating each of the unnecessary data sessions. Furthermore, using many power intensive data sessions may result in quickly reducing the battery life for the user's mobile device.","In some embodiments, a system is provided for user interface update signaling. The system includes a user interface and a background application that execute on a mobile device, and a signaling server. The signaling server receives an update from a third party application and sends at least some of the update to the mobile device. The background application receives the at least some of the update and stores the at least some of the update in a file in the mobile device. The background application also provides a uniform resource locator that specifies where the file is located to the user interface to enable the user interface to display the at least some of the update.","In some embodiments, a computer implemented method is provided for user interface update signaling. A mobile device receives at least some of an update from a third party application. The at least some of the update is stored in a file in the mobile device. A uniform resource locator that specifies where the file is located is provided to a user interface on the mobile device to enable the user interface to display the at least some of the update.","In some embodiments, a system is provided for user interface update signaling. The system includes a user interface and a background application that execute on a mobile device, and a signaling server. The signaling server receives an update from a third party application and sends an update notice to the mobile device. The background application receives the update notice and requests at least some of the update from the signaling server. The background application also receives the at least some of the update from the signaling server and stores the at least some of the update in a file in the mobile device. Additionally, the background application provides a uniform resource locator that specifies where the file is located to the user interface to enable the user interface to display the at least some of the update.","These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.","It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below, the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques, whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations, drawings, and techniques illustrated below, but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.","A mobile device may use a dynamic Internet protocol (IP) address every time a data session is initiated. Due to costs and availability, a communications service provider may lease only a limited number of dynamic IP addresses. When a dynamic IP address provided for a mobile device's data session has no data session activity for a 90 minute interval following the data session, or for some other effective time duration, a communications server may release the dynamic IP address back to a communications service provider's limited pool of available dynamic IP addresses. When the mobile device receives updates from a third party application using data sessions more frequently than every 90 minutes, the mobile device may retain its dynamic IP address for 90 minutes after each update to wait for additional updates. In this situation, the mobile device essentially has a static IP address, which may contribute to exhausting the communications service provider's pool of dynamic IP addresses. Acquiring additional dynamic IP addresses requires time and additional costs, and may be limited by the availability of dynamic IP addresses.","Systems and methods are provided for user interface update signaling. Instead of a third party application sending an update to a mobile device, the third party application sends the update to a signaling server. The signaling server receives the update and sends the update to the mobile device without initiating a data session for the mobile device. For example, the signaling server sends the update as an (SMS) message via the mobile device's wireless paging channel or via the mobile device's power signaling channel. A background application on the mobile device receives the update and stores the update in a file in the mobile device. The background application provides a uniform resource locator (URL) that specifies where the file is located to the user interface to enable the user interface to access and display the update. Instead of modifying the user interface to communicate with the background application, the background application provides the URL to the user interface which already has the capability of accessing data via URLs. However, because the URL specifies a location for a file that is on the mobile device, the user interface does not initiate a data session to access this local URL. Upon accessing the local URL, the user interface displays information that indicates the receipt of the update, such as an update receipt notice or the update itself.","In response to viewing the update receipt notice or the update itself, the user of the mobile device has the option of initiating a data session via the user interface to request data from the third party application. The mobile device user may view the update receipt notice or the update itself, decide that the update is important enough to initiate a data session, and select to initiate a data session via the user interface. When the data is received from the third party application, the mobile device may release the dynamic IP address to the communications service provider's pool of dynamic IP addresses because the mobile device is not waiting for additional updates or data via data sessions. Releasing the dynamic IP address increases the communications service provider's limited pool of IP addresses. The mobile device user may view the update receipt notice or the update itself and decide that the update is not important enough to initiate a data session. In this situation, the user saves the expense of initiating an unnecessary data session, the mobile device avoids an unnecessary data session that would unnecessarily further drain the battery of the mobile device, and the communications service provider's pool of available dynamic IP addresses is not reduced. Therefore, while avoiding modification of the user interface, the mobile device still receives information about updates in near real time without initiating a data session until the user decides to initiate the data session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","110","112","102","108","110","104","106","112","102","114","116","118","120","102","122","124"]},"Instead of one of the third party applications  sending an update to the mobile device , one of the third party applications  sends the update to the signaling server . The third party applications  may send the update in a text message or an email to a notification messaging account associated with the mobile device  and accessible by the signaling server . The third party applications  may send the update in response to an application programming interface call from the signaling server , which the signaling server  may send whenever the mobile device  checks for updates. The update may be a text message, an audio file, a photo file, a video file, or other. The signaling server  receives the update and parses header information in the update to identify the mobile device  addressed by the update. The signaling server  sends at least some of the update to the mobile device  without initiating a data session for the mobile device . For example, the signaling server  sends the update as an (SMS) message via a wireless paging channel for the mobile device . The signaling server  may respond to receipt of an update that is identified as urgent by sending the entire update to the mobile device  and may respond to receipt of an update that is identified as non-urgent by waiting for the mobile device  to request any updates before sending the update. The signaling server  may send only some of the update to the mobile device  if the update contains more information than the signaling server  may send without initiating a data session for the mobile device , such as when a social network application sends an update that includes a lengthy text message or a video file. For example, the signaling server  may send as much of a lengthy text message that an SMS message may include or a text description of a video file that the update includes, and retain the rest of the lengthy text message or the video file for subsequent retrieval as requested by the mobile device . Therefore, the amount of the update received from the third party applications  that the signaling server  sends as the update to the mobile device  may depend on the urgency and\/or the file size of the update received from the third party applications .","The signaling server  may also send the update as a voice mail indicator message or a power setting message via a wireless paging channel or via a power signaling channel for the mobile device . For example, if the wireless paging channel for communicating SMS messages is currently unavailable for the mobile device , the signaling server  may send an update via one of the other wireless paging channels. If the signaling server  sends an update as a voice mail indicator message or a power setting message, the update may be an update notice rather than the update itself because of the limited amount of information that a voice mail indicator message or a power setting message may include relative to the amount of information that an SMS message may include. For example, the base transceiver station  may send a power setting message to the mobile device  to specify whether the mobile device  should use a level  power setting, a level  power setting, or a level  power setting to communicate via the base transceiver station  and the network . Continuing this example, if the signaling server  sends a level  power setting to the mobile device , the background application  may interpret this power setting message as an update notice based on the previous power setting message received from the base transceiver station . In another example, the signaling server  may send a sequence of power setting messages that the background application  interprets as an update notice.","If the background application  receives either an update notice or only some of an update, the background application  may request more of the update from the signaling server , receive more of the update from the signaling server , and store more of the update in the file . For example, if the background application  receives an update notice as a voice mail indicator message or a power setting message via a wireless paging channel for the mobile device , the background application  requests the signaling server  to send the update that corresponds to the update notice.","In another example, if the background application  receives a first portion of a lengthy text message as an SMS message via a wireless paging channel for the mobile device , the background application  requests the signaling server  to send the next portion of the lengthy text message. The background application  may continue requesting portions of the lengthy text message from the signaling server  until the background application  receives the entire lengthy text message that comprises the update, or the user of the mobile device  may indicate via the user interface  how much more of the update to request from the signaling server .","When the background application  receives the update, the background application  stores the update in the first file . The background application  provides a (URL) that specifies where the file  is located to the user interface  to enable the user interface  to display the update. Instead of modifying the user interface  to communicate with the background application , the background application  provides the URL to the user interface , which already has the capability of accessing data via URLs. However, because the URL specifies a location for the first file  that is on the mobile device , the user interface  does not initiate a data session to access this local URL.","Upon accessing the local URL, the user interface  displays information that indicates the receipt of the update, such as an update receipt notice or the update itself. The user interface  may include multiple tile applications, such as the first tile , the second tile , and the third tile . The tiles - are panes or individual screens that are viewable one by one, and perhaps in a specified order, on the display of the mobile device . The tiles - may contain actively running applications displaying viewable data and\/or interactive content selected by a user of the mobile device . The data or interactive content may be dynamically refreshed without action by the user or changed at the user's discretion. The user may decide on the specific content to be displayed in each of the tiles -, the order of the tiles - in a virtual carousel, and how long the tiles - remain in the carousel. The system  allows a user to create and download tiles for a single or short term use. Each of the third party applications  may send a corresponding update, and each of the tiles - may correspond to an update received from the third party applications. For example, if the first tile  is a social network tile, the first tile  may display information associated with a receipt of a social network update from a social network application, which is one of the third party applications . The first tile  may indicate receipt of an update corresponding to the first tile  by changing color, size, or shape, by changing the content displayed by the first tile , by an audio signal, and\/or by vibrating the mobile device . For example, the first tile  may display a large red checkmark to indicate receipt of an update. In another example, the first tile  may display the update, which is comprised of a short text message that indicates that the user's daughter changed her social network application status from \u201chappy\u201d to \u201cfrustrated.\u201d","Displaying the update may be based on a user specified criteria. For example, the second tile  may be a local weather tile that corresponds to a weather application, which is one of the third party applications. The user may not want to receive an update from the weather application every time that the weather changes one degree for the geographic location specified by the user. Therefore, the user may request to receive weather updates once an hour, such that the second tile  receives weather updates in an SMS message send via a wireless paging channel for the mobile device  without initiating a data session for the mobile device . In another example, the user may request to receive updates for the third tile , which correspond to a stock market application, whenever the value of an identified stock or stock market index changes by a predetermined amount.","Upon viewing the indication of a receipt of an update, a user may use the tile that indicated the update to view more information about the update. Each of the tiles - may display at least some of a corresponding update in response to a first level of selection. For example, if the user of the mobile device  causes the selection device for the user interface  to \u201croll over\u201d the first tile , the first tile  may change from displaying a red checkmark to displaying a social network update that indicates the user's daughter changed her social network status from \u201chappy\u201d to \u201cfrustrated.\u201d In another example, the first tile  may respond to a \u201croll over\u201d by displaying a social network update that indicates the title of a video that the user's son posted on the social network.","The tiles - may display information associated with a corresponding third party application  in response to a second level of selection of the tile. For example, if the user of the mobile device  causes the selection device for the user interface  to select the first tile , the first tile  may display menu options to access the social network application. The user may select a menu option for the first tile  to initiate a data session to view the video posted by the user's son to the social network. If the user's son posted multiple videos, the user may select a menu option for the first tile  to initiate a data session to view some, but not all, of the videos posted by the user's son to the social network.","In response to viewing the update notice or the update, the user of the mobile device  has the option of initiating a data session via the user interface  to request data from one of the third party applications , such as a social network application. For example, the mobile device user may view the update, decide that the daughter's update is important enough to initiate a data session, and select to initiate a data session via the user interface  to determine if some additional information posted by the daughter via the social network application indicates why the daughter is frustrated. The user of the mobile device  has the option of selecting via the user interface  how much data to request from one of the third party applications . For example, the user may select to request additional information that the user's daughter has posted via the social network application during the most recent 24 hours instead of all of the information that the daughter has posted via the social network application during the most recent month that is currently accessible by other users.","When the data is received from one of the third party applications , the mobile device  may release the dynamic IP address to the communications service provider's pool of dynamic IP addresses because the mobile device  is not waiting for additional updates or data via data sessions. Releasing the dynamic IP address increases the communications service provider's limited pool of IP addresses.","In another example, the mobile device user may view the update and decide that the update identifying the son's video is not important enough to initiate a data session. In this situation, the user saves the expense of initiating an unnecessary data session, the mobile device avoids an unnecessary data session that would unnecessarily further drain the battery of the mobile device , and the communications service provider's pool of available dynamic IP addresses is not reduced. Therefore, while avoiding modification of the user interface , the mobile device  still receives information about updates in near real time without initiating a data session until the user decides to initiate the data session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","100","200","108","102","112"]},"In box , an update is received from a third party application. For example, the signaling server  receives updates from a social network application for the user's son and daughter.","In box , at least some of an update is sent to a mobile device. For example, the signaling server  sends the two updates to the mobile device .","In box , at least some of an update is received. For example, the background application  receives both updates.","In box , at least some of an update is optionally requested from a signaling server. For example, if the update received was an update notice or only part of an update, the background application  presents the option on the user interface  to request more of the update from the signaling server .","In box , at least some of an update is optionally received from a signaling server. For example, if the previously received update was an update notice or only part of an update, and the user selects the option to receive more of the update, the background application  receives more of the update from the signaling server .","In box , at least some of an update is stored in a file. For example, the background application  stores updates for the user's son and daughter in the file .","In box , a uniform resource locator that specifies where a file is located is provided to a user interface to enable the user interface to display at least some of an update. For example, the background application  provides a URL that specifies where the file  is located to the user interface  to enable the user interface  to display both updates.","In box , a data session is optionally initiated and data requested from a third party application. For example, although the user does not select to view the video posted via the social network application by the user's son, the user selects to request data from the social network application regarding the user's daughter, and the background application  initiates a data session and requests data from the social network application for the user's daughter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","102","102","102","102","102","102"]},"The mobile device  includes a display  and a touch-sensitive surface or keys  for input by a user. The mobile device  may present options for the user to select, controls for the user to actuate, and\/or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device  may further accept data entry from the user, including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the mobile device . The mobile device  may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device  to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally, the mobile device  may be programmed and\/or configured over-the-air, for example from a wireless base station, a wireless access point, or a peer mobile device .","The mobile device  may execute a web browser application which enables the display  to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with the BTS , a wireless network access node, a peer mobile device  or any other wireless communications network or system. While a single BTS  is illustrated, it is understood that the wireless communications system may comprise additional base transceiver stations. In some instances, the mobile device  may be in communications with multiple base transceiver stations  at the same time. The base transceiver station  (or wireless network access node) is coupled to the network  such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network, the mobile device  has access to information on various servers, such as the servers  and . The server  may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately, the mobile device  may access the BTS  through a peer mobile device  acting as an intermediary, in a relay type or hop type of connection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","102","102","102","402","404","102","406","408","410","412","414","416","418","420","422","424","426","428","430","432","434","436","438","102","402","404","418"]},"The DSP  or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device  in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory  or stored in memory contained within the DSP  itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware, the DSP  may execute other applications stored in the memory  or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card  or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine-readable instructions that configure the DSP  to provide the desired functionality, or the application software may be high-level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .","The antenna and front end unit  may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals, enabling the mobile device  to send and receive information from a radio access network (RAN) or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment, the antenna and front end unit  may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and\/or multiple input multiple output (MIMO) operations. As is known to those skilled in the art, MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and\/or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit  may include antenna tuning and\/or impedance matching components, RF power amplifiers, and\/or low noise amplifiers.","The RF transceiver  provides frequency shifting, converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation\/demodulation, coding\/decoding, interleaving\/deinterleaving, spreading\/despreading, inverse fast Fourier transforming (IFFT)\/fast Fourier transforming (FFT), cyclic prefix appending\/removal, and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity, the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and\/or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit  and\/or the DSP  or other central processing unit. In some embodiments, the RF transceiver , portions of the antenna and front end , and the analog baseband processing unit  may be combined in one or more processing units and\/or application specific integrated circuits (ASICs).","The analog baseband processing unit  may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs, for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone  and the headset  and outputs to the earpiece speaker  and the headset port . To that end, the analog baseband processing unit  may have ports for connecting to the built-in microphone  and the earpiece speaker  that enable the mobile device  to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit  may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands-free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit  may provide digital-to-analog conversion in one signal direction and analog-to-digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments, at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit  may be provided by digital processing components, for example by the DSP  or by other central processing units.","The DSP  may perform modulation\/demodulation, coding\/decoding, interleaving\/deinterleaving, spreading\/despreading, inverse fast Fourier transforming (IFFT)\/fast Fourier transforming (FFT), cyclic prefix appending\/removal, and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment, for example in a code division multiple access (CDMA) technology application, for a transmitter function the DSP  may perform modulation, coding, interleaving, and spreading, and for a receiver function the DSP  may perform despreading, deinterleaving, decoding, and demodulation. In another embodiment, for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access (OFDMA) technology application, for the transmitter function the DSP  may perform modulation, coding, interleaving, inverse fast Fourier transforming, and cyclic prefix appending, and for a receiver function the DSP  may perform cyclic prefix removal, fast Fourier transforming, deinterleaving, decoding, and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications, yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .","The DSP  may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments, the communications may provide Internet connectivity, enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e-mail or text messages. The input\/output interface  interconnects the DSP  and various memories and interfaces. The memory  and the removable memory card  may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port  and the infrared port . The USB port  may enable the mobile device  to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port  and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device  to communicate wirelessly with other nearby mobile devices  and\/or wireless base stations.","The input\/output interface  may further connect the DSP  to the vibrator  that, when triggered, causes the mobile device  to vibrate. The vibrator  may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call, a new text message, and an appointment reminder.","The keypad  couples to the DSP  via the interface  to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections, enter information, and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD , which may also display text and\/or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller  couples the DSP  to the touch screen LCD .","The CCD camera  enables the mobile device  to take digital pictures. The DSP  communicates with the CCD camera  via the camera controller . The GPS sensor  is coupled to the DSP  to decode global positioning system signals, thereby enabling the mobile device  to determine its position. In another embodiment, a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions, e.g., radio and television reception.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["502","402","402","504","504","504","506","102","508","510","512","122","508","102","510","102","512","102"]},"Some aspects of the system described above may be implemented on any general-purpose computer with sufficient processing power, memory resources, and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it.  illustrates a typical, general-purpose computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system  includes a processor  (which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU) that is in communications with memory devices including secondary storage , read only memory (ROM) , random access memory (RAM) , input\/output (I\/O) devices , and network connectivity devices . The processor  may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.","The secondary storage  is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non-volatile storage of data and as an over-flow data storage device if RAM  is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage  may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM  when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM  is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM  is a non-volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM  is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM  and RAM  is typically faster than to secondary storage .","I\/O devices  may include printers, video monitors, liquid crystal displays (LCDs), touch screen displays, keyboards, keypads, switches, dials, mice, track balls, voice recognizers, card readers, paper tape readers, or other well-known input devices.","The network connectivity devices  may take the form of modems, modem banks, Ethernet cards, universal serial bus (USB) interface cards, serial interfaces, token ring cards, fiber distributed data interface (FDDI) cards, wireless local area network (WLAN) cards, radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access (CDMA), global system for mobile communications (GSM), long-term evolution (LTE), worldwide interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX), and other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards, and other well-known network devices. These network connectivity devices  may enable the processor  to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection, it is contemplated that the processor  might receive information from the network, or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above-described method steps. Such information, which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using the processor , may be received from and outputted to the network, for example, in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.","Such information, which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor  for example, may be received from and outputted to the network, for example, in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices  may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors, in coaxial cables, in waveguides, in optical media, for example optical fiber, or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences, as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave, or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed, referred to herein as the transmission medium, may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.","The processor  executes instructions, codes, computer programs, scripts which it accesses from hard disk, floppy disk, optical disk (these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ), ROM , RAM , or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor  is shown, multiple processors may be present. Thus, while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor, the instructions may be executed simultaneously, serially, or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors.","While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure, it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example, the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.","Also, techniques, systems, subsystems, and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems, modules, techniques, or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface, device, or intermediate component, whether electrically, mechanically, or otherwise. Other examples of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure, reference is now made to the following brief description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings and detailed description, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
