---
title: Vaccine comprising AMB A 1 peptides for use in the treatment of ragweed allergy
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions for preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerization. The compositions are based on combinations of peptide fragments derived from the major allergen in ragweed pollen, Amb a 1. The invention also relates to products, vectors and formulations which may be used to provide polypeptides of the invention in combination. The invention further relates to in vitro methods for determining whether T cells recognize a polypeptide of the invention, and for determining whether an individual has or is at risk of a condition characterized by allergic symptoms in response to a ragweed allergen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08491910&OS=08491910&RS=08491910
owner: Circassia Limited
number: 08491910
owner_city: Oxford
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20090814
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","INCORPORATING BY REFERENCE","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE SEQUENCES MENTIONED HEREIN","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Example 1","Potential T Cell Epitopes","Example 2","Histamine Release Assay","Example 3","Clinical Trial of Peptide Combination","FURTHER EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage filing of International Application No. PCT\/GB2009\/001986 filed Aug. 14, 2009, which claims priority to GB Application No. 0814986.6 filed Aug. 15, 2008; PCT application No. PCT\/GB08\/002781 filed Aug. 15, 2008; PCT application No. PCT\/GB08\/002779 filed Aug. 15, 2008; GB Application No. 0815218.3 filed Aug. 20, 2008 and EP Application No. 09251252.4 filed May 1, 2009. The contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference.","The contents of the following priority applications are incorporated herein by reference: United Kingdom Patent Application No. 0814986.6 filed 15 Aug. 2008; International Patent Application No.'s PCT\/GB08\/002,781 and PCT\/GB08\/002,779, both filed 15 Aug. 2008; United Kingdom Patent Application No. 0815218.3 filed 20 Aug. 2008 and European Patent Application No. 09251252.4 filed 1 May 2009.","The present invention relates to compositions for preventing or treating allergy to ragweed.","T-cell antigen recognition requires antigen presenting cells (APCs) to present antigen fragments (peptides) on their cell surface in association with molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). T cells use their antigen specific T-cell receptors (TCRs) to recognise the antigen fragments presented by the APC. Such recognition acts as a trigger to the immune system to generate a range of responses to eradicate the antigen which has been recognised.","Recognition of external antigens by the immune system of an organism, such as man, can in some cases result in diseases, known as atopic conditions. Examples of the latter are the allergic diseases including asthma, atopic dermatitis and allergic rhinitis. In this group of diseases, B lymphocytes generate antibodies of the IgE class (in humans) which bind externally derived antigens, which are referred to in this context as allergens since these molecules elicit an allergic response. Production of allergen-specific IgE is dependent upon T lymphocytes which are also activated by (are specific for) the allergen. Allergen-specific IgE antibodies bind to the surface of cells such as basophils and mast cells by virtue of the expression by these cells of surface receptors for IgE.","Crosslinking of surface bound IgE molecules by allergen results in degranulation of these effector cells causing release of inflammatory mediators such as histamine, 5-hydroxtryptamine and lipid mediators such as the sulphidoleukotrienes. In addition to IgE-dependent events, certain allergic diseases such as asthma are characterised by IgE-independent events.","Allergic IgE-mediated diseases are currently treated with agents which provide symptomatic relief or prevention. Examples of such agents are anti-histamines, \u03b22 agonists, and glucocorticosteroids. In addition, some IgE-mediated diseases are treated by desensitisation procedures that involve the periodic injection of allergen components or extracts. Desensitisation treatments may induce an IgG response that competes with IgE for allergen, or they may induce specific suppressor T cells that block the synthesis of IgE directed against allergen. This form of treatment is not always effective and poses the risk of provoking serious side effects, particularly general anaphylactic shock. This can be fatal unless recognised immediately and treated with adrenaline. A therapeutic treatment that would decrease or eliminate the unwanted allergic-immune response to a particular allergen, without altering the immune reactivity to other foreign antigens or triggering an allergic response itself would be of great benefit to allergic individuals.","Ragweed allergens are universally recognised as a major cause of allergic diseases in humans and animals, including asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic dermatitis. Proteins present in ragweed pollen are particularly important. For example, approximately 75% of hayfever sufferers in the United States are allergic to ragweed pollen. Hayfever is the common term for a form of seasonal allergy characterised by sneezing, runny nose and itching eyes. The term \u201chayfever\u201d arose because this form of allergic disease is most prevalent during \u201chaying season\u201d, which corresponds to the flowering season of many plants, that is when they release the highest quantities of pollen. It is particularly prevalent from late summer to early Autumn, typically from the end of June to the end of September (in the Northern Hemisphere).","It has been calculated that for adults in the United States, hayfever is the 5th leading chronic disease and a major cause of work absenteeism, resulting in nearly 4 million missed or lost workdays each year, resulting in a total cost of more than $700 million in total lost productivity. Allergies are also the most frequently reported chronic condition in children, limiting activities for more than 40% of them. Each year, allergies account for more than 17 million outpatient office visits in the United States; seasonal allergies such as hayfever account for more than half of these allergy visits.","A therapeutic or preventative treatment would therefore be of great benefit to humans that suffer or are at risk of suffering from ragweed allergy.","Ragweed allergy is typically caused by Common ragweed (). The major allergen in ragweed pollen is Amb a 1. This protein exists as a number of different isoforms, Amb a 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4.","The present inventors have discovered that certain combinations of peptide fragments derived from the Amb a 1 proteins are particularly useful in desensitising individuals to these allergens. The polypeptide combinations of the invention have been selected for their ability bind to many MHC Class II molecules, be highly soluble, to not trigger histamine release from basophils drawn from a panel of ragweed allergic individuals and to induce a cytokine response in a high proportion of subjects from a panel of ragweed allergic individuals. The compositions, products, vectors and formulations of the invention may therefore be provided to individuals for preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation.","The peptides of the invention were selected as potential T cell epitopes through in silico methods. When regions containing epitopes were identified, they were further analysed to determine which of them were highly conserved between the four different Amb a 1 isoforms. These candidate polypeptides were then further screened for potential use in tolerisation. More specifically, they were analysed for solubility characteristics, and the ability to induce cytokine release from PBMC derived from ragweed allergic individuals. In some instances, the peptide sequences were engineered to improve solubility and\/or reduce dimer formation.","A difficulty associated with approaches to desensitisation based on peptide immunisation lies in how to select an appropriate size and region of the allergen as the basis for the peptide to be used for immunisation. The size of the peptide of choice is crucial. If the peptide is too small, the vaccine would not be effective in inducing an immunological response. If the peptides are too large, or if the whole antigen is introduced into an individual, there is the risk of inducing adverse reactions, such as anaphylaxis, which may be fatal. This risk may be greater if peptides are poorly soluble.","The polypeptides of the invention have been selected to retain T cell specificity whilst being small enough in size to not possess significant tertiary structure that would enable them to retain the conformation of an IgE-binding epitope of the whole molecule. The polypeptides of the invention therefore do not induce significant crosslinking of adjacent specific IgE molecules on cells such as mast cells and basophils and have been shown not to cause significant histamine release from human basophils.","An advantage of the invention is the ability of the peptides to broadly target Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) molecules. T cell receptors (TCRs) are highly variable in their specificity. Variability is generated, as with antibody molecules, through gene recombination events within the cell. TCRs recognise antigen in the form of short peptides bound to molecules encoded by the genes of the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC). These gene products are the same molecules that give rise to \u201ctissue types\u201d used in transplantation and are also referred to as Human Leukocyte Antigen molecules (HLAs) which terms may be used interchangeably. Individual MHC molecules possess peptide binding grooves which, due to their shape and charge are only capable of binding a limited group of peptides. The peptides bound by one MHC molecule may not necessarily be bound by other MHC molecules.","When a protein molecule such as an antigen or allergen is taken up by antigen presenting cells such as B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, monocytes and macrophages, the molecule is enzymatically degraded within the cell. The process of degradation gives rise to peptide fragments of the molecule which, if they are of the appropriate size, charge and shape, may then bind within the peptide binding groove of certain MHC molecules and be subsequently displayed upon the surface of antigen presenting cells. If the peptide\/MHC complexes are present upon the antigen presenting cell surface in sufficient numbers they may then activate T cells which bear the appropriate peptide\/MHC-specific T cell receptors.","Due to the polymorphic nature of the MHC, individuals in an outbred population such as man will express different combinations of MHC molecules on their cell surfaces. Since different MHC molecules can bind different peptides from the same molecule based on the size, charge and shape of the peptide, different individuals will display a different repertoire of peptides bound to their MHC molecules. Identification of universal MHC-binding peptide epitopes in an outbred population such as man is more difficult than in inbred animals (such as certain strains of laboratory mice). On the basis of differential MHC expression between individuals and the inherent differences in peptide binding and presentation which this brings, it is unlikely that a single peptide can be identified which will be of use for desensitisation therapy in man.","Another advantage of the invention is the selection of peptides and peptide combinations on the basis of responses observed in PBMCs freshly isolated from ragweed allergic individuals. In contrast to artefactual scenarios where clonal cell lines are established from allergic patients in order to test T cell responses, the evaluation of ex vivo responses of freshly isolated PBMCs allows for a representative view of the relative population importance of different peptides without potential distortion induced by the culture process.","The peptide combinations of the invention, however, provide a broad coverage of efficacy over the human population by targeting multiple different MHC molecules. This broad coverage is illustrated by the ability of peptide combinations of the invention to cause a positive cytokine response in many individuals within the population. A vaccine formulated with the peptides of the invention would therefore have broad utility.","The inventors' work has produced peptide combinations with the following characteristics:\n\n","Accordingly, the present invention provides a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least one polypeptide selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 31. Typically, the composition comprises at least four polypeptides, wherein the polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following:","(i) a polypeptide of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31; or","(ii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of:\n\n","(iii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either:\n\n","SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31 provide the polypeptide sequences of the invention. SEQ ID NOS: 32 onwards provide additional sequences.","The invention concerns peptides and combinations of peptides which can be used in tolerisation. Such peptides may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of the sequences shown in any of SEQ ID NO's. 1 to 31). Variants of these specific peptides may also be used. The variants may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of sequences which are fragments of either any of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31 or homologues of any of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31.","In one embodiment the invention relates to a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed. The composition typically comprises or consists at least four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, or twelve polypeptides, up to a maximum of thirteen. In other words, the composition comprises between four and thirteen polypeptides. The polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following:","(i) a polypeptide of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31; or","(ii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of:\n\n","(iii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either:\n\n","The invention also provides products and formulations comprising the polypeptides of the invention and compositions, products and vectors comprising polynucleotides capable of expressing the polypeptides of the invention for use in preventing or treating ragweed allergy by tolerisation. Such tolerisation will typically be to an epitope (for example a MHC class II epitope) present in any of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31.","Ragweed Species","The ragweed species (common ragweed), and to a lesser extent (giant ragweed), are responsible for a high proportion of ragweed allergy worldwide, particularly allergies associated with ragweed pollen, such as hayfever. Common ragweed is native to North America, but has spread to most continents worldwide. Ragweeds bloom in the northern hemisphere from early July-mid August or until cooler weather arrives. Ragweed is a pioneer plant which is well adapted to colonising newly disturbed ground. While in natural habitats it is often restricted by competition with other plants, but in areas where humans have cleared existing vegetation, ragweed quickly becomes widely and aggressively established. Thus, ragweed is very abundant along rural roadsides, fence lines, waste lands, new excavations, cultivated fields, gardens, and poorly kept lawns. As such it is well-adapted to wide variety of climates, can tolerate a wide soil pH range (from about 4.5 to about 8.5), and is also resistant to high salinity.","Peptide Fragments of Ragweed Pollen Allergens","The major allergen in ragweed pollen is Amb a 1. This protein exists as a number of different isoforms, Amb a 1.1, 1.2. 1.3 and 1.4. These isoforms are set out in full in Example 1. The present inventors have identified the regions in Amb a 1 which comprise MHC Class II-binding T cell epitopes and which are highly conserved between isoforms (see analysis in Example 1). Based on this information, peptides derived from the relevant regions of Amb a 1 are suitable for preventing or treating ragweed allergy by tolerisation to all isoforms of Amb a 1.","The terms \u201cpeptide\u201d and \u201cpolypeptide\u201d are used interchangeably herein. The above proteins are also referred to herein as \u201cthe allergens\u201d.","Tables 3, 4 and 6 set out the sequences of the peptides of the invention, where appropriate indicating the parent protein from which each peptide derives.","Peptide Combinations","The composition typically comprises a combination of at least three different polypeptides of the invention, up to a maximum of thirteen different polypeptides. Accordingly, the composition of the invention may consist of three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve or thirteen peptides.","The polypeptide combinations in the composition of the invention are selected to provide as broad a coverage of the human population as possible, i.e. the composition of the invention will produce an immune response in a high proportion of ragweed allergic individuals, preferably more than 30%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 60% or 70% of ragweed allergic individuals in a panel or population of such individuals. The number of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals may be any suitable number, typically at least 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or at least 100 individuals. Preferably the population has MHC allele frequencies within the range of frequencies that are representative of the Caucasian population. Reference population allele frequencies for 11 common DRB1 allele families are shown in Table 1 (Data from HLA Facts Book, Parham and Barber).","The composition of the invention typically comprises:\n\n","Optionally, the composition may additionally comprise at least one additional polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of any of RGW02, RGW09, RGW06 or RGW06A, RGW10, RGW10A, RGW05 or RGW05A, or a variant thereof.","Optionally, the composition may additionally comprise at least one additional polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of any of RGW07, RGW07C, RGW07D, or a variant thereof. The at least one additional polypeptide is preferably a polypeptide of RGW07D, or a variant thereof.","More specifically, in one embodiment, the invention therefore provides a composition comprising between three and thirteen polypeptides, consisting of:\n\n","In other words, one specific embodiment of the invention provides a composition for use in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy by tolerisation comprising between three and thirteen peptide sequences, wherein the composition consists of:","a) at least one of the polypeptides with the following sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0067"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RGW01","GMIKSNDGPPI;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20031)"]},{"entry":[{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"RGW01A","GLIKSHDGPPV;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20032)"]},{"entry":[{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"RGW01B","GLIKSNDGPAA;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20033)"]}]}}}}},"or a variant thereof, and;","b) at least one of the polypeptides with the following sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0070"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RGW03","KDLLENGAIFVTSG;,","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20037)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW03A","DVFENGAIFVPSG;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20038)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW03B","RDLLENGAIFLPSG;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20039)"]}]}}}}},"or variants thereof and;","c) at least one of the polypeptides with the following sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RGW04","KAGMIPAEPGEA;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200310)"]},{"entry":[{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"RGW4A","SAGMIPAEPGEA;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200311)"]}]}}}}},"or variants thereof and optionally;","d) at least one of the polypeptides with the following sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RGW02","GSSQIWIDHSSLSKS;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20034)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW04","KAGMIPAEPGEA;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200310)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW4A","SAGMIPAEPGEA;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200311)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW06","VVNSDKTIDGRGVKVE;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200314)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW06A","AINNDKTIDGRGAKVE;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200315)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW09","ETRRSLKTSGAYN;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200326)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW10","FGFFQVVNNNYD;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200327)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW10A","HGFFQVVNNNYD;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200328)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW05","KEGTLRFAAAQNRP;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200312)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW05A","KEGTLRFGAAQNRP;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200313)"]}]}}}}},"or variants thereof and optionally;","e) at least one of the polypeptides with the following sequences:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0079"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RGW07","GEAAIKLTSSAGVLS;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200316)"]},{"entry":[{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"RGW07C","KGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSK;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200319)"]},{"entry":[{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"RGW07D","KGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSKK;","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200320)"]}]}}}}},"or variants thereof.","It will be appreciated that (a) to (e) above represent stringent and highly selective criteria for the identification of suitable combinations of the invention. For example, if one were to select six peptides at random from the sequences of the invention there would be nearly a million possible combinations to choose from. By contrast, it is useful to consider an example of a combination of six polypeptides in which the above criteria are applied. For example, consider a combination wherein the following polypeptides are selected:","i) any one of the polypeptides of RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B, and any one of the polypeptides of RGW03, RGW03A or RGW03B and any one of the polypeptides of RGW04 and RGW04A; and","ii) three further polypeptides selected from the polypeptides of any of RGW02, RGW09, RGW06, RGW06A, RGW10, RGW10A, RGW05 or RGW05A; and finally","Based on such a selection, the number of possible combinations represents a minute fraction of the total available combinations if the criteria determined by the inventors are not applied.","On the basis of the above, a particularly preferred combination of the invention comprises or consists of the polypeptides of RGW01, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW02, RGW05 and RGW06A, or variants thereof.","A further preferred combination comprises of consists of the polypeptides of RGW01, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW02, RGW05, RGW06A and RGW07D.","Subject to the above, the composition may optionally comprise further polypeptides up to a total of thirteen unique polypeptides. These further polypeptides relate to (i.e. are typically homologues and\/or fragments of) the other sequences, i.e. SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31, that are not amongst the polypeptides already selected. The further peptides are typically functional variants of one of the peptides of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31. The further polypeptides may be identical to any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. The composition may therefore comprise up to thirteen different polypeptides as provided in any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31. However, the optional further polypeptides do not need to be 100% identical to any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31. They are preferably at least 65% identical to at least 9 (for example at least 10, 11, 12 or 13) or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31, not already selected amongst the previously selected polypeptide(s). These contiguous amino acids may comprise a MHC class II epitope, for example which binds to any of the MHC molecules mentioned herein. In other words, the composition may optionally comprise further polypeptides up to a total of thirteen unique polypeptides, wherein the further polypeptides:","(i) comprise a sequence having at least 65% sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31 above not selected in (a) to (e) above; and","(ii) are 9 to 30 amino acids in length.","wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy by tolerisation.","In more detail therefore, the invention provides a product containing between three and thirteen polypeptides as defined in (a) to (e) above; and optionally:\n\n","Another embodiment of the invention is a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising one or more polypeptide, wherein the polypeptide is selected from any of the following:","(i) a polypeptide of any of SEQ ID NO's. 1 to 31; or","(ii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of:\n\n","(iii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either:\n\n","The compositions or products of the invention may comprise variants of any of sequences defined above. The variant typically comprises 1, 2, 3 or more of the MHC class II epitopes present in the corresponding peptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31.","Functional variants are mentioned herein. Such variants may be able to tolerise an individual to a class II MHC epitope present in the corresponding peptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31, and thus it will typically comprise sequence that binds to the same MHC class II molecule and\/or is recognised by a T cell which recognises the corresponding epitope in the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31.","Variants of SEQ ID NO's 1 to 31 may be fragments derived by truncation. Truncation refers to the removal of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more amino acids from the N and\/or C-terminal ends of a polypeptide of SEQ ID NOS. 1 to 31.","Fragments may also be generated by one or more internal deletions, provided that the core 9 amino acids that makes up the T cell epitope is not substantially disrupted.","For example, a variant of SEQ ID NO: 1 may comprise a fragment of SEQ ID NO: 1, i.e. a shorter sequence. This may include a deletion of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more amino acids from the N-terminal end of SEQ ID NO: 1 or from the C-terminal end of SEQ ID NO: 1. Such deletions may be made from both ends of SEQ ID NO: 1. A variant of SEQ ID NO: 1 may include additional amino acids (for example from the sequence of the parent protein from which the peptide derives) extending beyond the end(s) of SEQ ID NO: 1. A variant may include a combination of the deletions and additions discussed above. For example, amino acids may be deleted from one end of SEQ ID NO: 1, but additional amino acids from the full length parent protein sequence may be added at the other end of SEQ ID NO: 1. The same discussion of variants above also applies to SEQ ID NOS: 2 to 31. A preferred variant of SEQ ID NO: 20 is the peptide KKGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSK (SEQ ID NO: 150).","A variant peptide may include one or more amino acid substitutions from the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31 or a fragment thereof. A variant peptide may comprise sequence having at least 65% sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. More preferably a suitable variant may comprise at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% amino acid identity to at least 9 contiguous amino acids of any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31. This level of amino acid identity may be seen at any section of the peptide, although it is preferably the core region. The level of amino acid identity is over at least 9 contiguous amino acids but it may be at least 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or at least 16 or 17 amino acids, depending on the size of the peptides of comparison. Accordingly, any of the above-specified levels of identity may be across the entire length of sequence.","In connection with amino acid sequences, \u201csequence identity\u201d refers to sequences which have the stated value when assessed using ClustalW (Thompson et al, Nucleic Acids Res. 1994 Nov. 11; 22(22):4673-80) with the following parameters: Pairwise alignment parameters\u2014Method: accurate, Matrix: PAM, Gap open penalty: 10.00, Gap extension penalty: 0.10; Multiple alignment parameters\u2014Matrix: PAM, Gap open penalty: 10.00, % identity for delay: 30, Penalize end gaps: on, Gap separation distance: 0, Negative matrix: no, Gap extension penalty: 0.20, Residue-specific gap penalties: on, Hydrophilic gap penalties: on, Hydrophilic residues: GPSNDQEKR. Sequence identity at a particular residue is intended to include identical residues which have simply been derivatised.","A variant peptide may comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or more, or up to 10 amino acid substitutions from any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. Substitution variants preferably involve the replacement of one or more amino acids with the same number of amino acids and making conservative amino acid substitutions. For example, an amino acid may be substituted with an alternative amino acid having similar properties, for example, another basic amino acid, another acidic amino acid, another neutral amino acid, another charged amino acid, another hydrophilic amino acid, another hydrophobic amino acid, another polar amino acid, another aromatic amino acid or another aliphatic amino acid. Some properties of the 20 main amino acids which can be used to select suitable substituents are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0118"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Ala","aliphatic, hydrophobic,","Met","hydrophobic, neutral"]},{"entry":[{},"neutral"]},{"entry":["Cys","polar, hydrophobic, neutral","Asn","polar, hydrophilic, neutral"]},{"entry":["Asp","polar, hydrophilic, charged","Pro","hydrophobic, neutral"]},{"entry":[{},"(\u2212)"]},{"entry":["Glu","polar, hydrophilic, charged","Gln","polar, hydrophilic, neutral"]},{"entry":[{},"(\u2212)"]},{"entry":["Phe","aromatic, hydrophobic,","Arg","polar, hydrophilic, charged"]},{"entry":[{},"neutral",{},"(+)"]},{"entry":["Gly","aliphatic, neutral","Ser","polar, hydrophilic, neutral"]},{"entry":["His","aromatic, polar, hydrophilic,","Thr","polar, hydrophilic, neutral"]},{"entry":[{},"charged (+)"]},{"entry":["Ile","aliphatic, hydrophobic,","Val","aliphatic, hydrophobic,"]},{"entry":[{},"neutral",{},"neutral"]},{"entry":["Lys","polar, hydrophilic, charged(+)","Trp","aromatic, hydrophobic,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"neutral"]},{"entry":["Leu","aliphatic, hydrophobic,","Tyr","aromatic, polar,"]},{"entry":[{},"neutral",{},"hydrophobic"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Further variants include those in which instead of the naturally occurring amino acid the amino acid which appears in the sequence is a structural analog thereof. Amino acids used in the sequences may also be modified, e.g. labelled, providing the function of the peptide is not significantly adversely affected.","Where the peptide has a sequence that varies from the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31 or a fragment thereof, the substitutions may occur across the full length of the sequence, within the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31 or outside the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. For example, the variations described herein, such as additions, deletions, substitutions and modifications, may occur within the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. A variant peptide may comprise or consist essentially of the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31 in which one, two, three, four or more amino acid substitutions have been made. A variant peptide may comprise a fragment of the parent protein that is larger than any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31. In this embodiment, the variations described herein, such as substitutions and modifications, may occur within and\/or outside the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31.","The variant peptides of the invention are 9 to 30 amino acids in length inclusive. Preferably, they may be from 9 to 20 or more preferably 13 to 17 amino acids in length. The peptides may be the same length as the peptide sequences in any one of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31.","The peptides may be chemically derived from the polypeptide allergen, for example by proteolytic cleavage or can be derived in an intellectual sense from the polypeptide allergen, for example by making use of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide allergen and synthesising peptides based on the sequence. Peptides may be synthesised using methods well known in the art.","Where polypeptides comprise residues which are typically difficult to preserve during manufacture, these residues may be replaced. For example, glutamate spontaneously forms pyroglutamate in solution particularly when present at the N terminus of a peptide. Thus, residues of the peptides of the invention which correspond to a glutamate or glutamine residue in the sequence of a native allergen protein sequence may be replaced with pyroglutamate in the peptides of the invention when such a residue is present at the N terminus of a peptide.","The term \u201cpeptide\u201d includes not only molecules in which amino acid residues are joined by peptide (\u2014CO\u2014NH\u2014) linkages but also molecules in which the peptide bond is reversed. Such retro-inverso peptidomimetics may be made using methods known in the art, for example such as those described in Meziere et al (1997) J. Immunol. 159, 3230-3237. This approach involves making pseudopeptides containing changes involving the backbone, and not the orientation of side chains. Meziere et al (1997) show that, at least for MHC class II and T helper cell responses, these pseudopeptides are useful. Retro-inverse peptides, which contain NH\u2014CO bonds instead of CO\u2014NH peptide bonds, are much more resistant to proteolysis.","Similarly, the peptide bond may be dispensed with altogether provided that an appropriate linker moiety which retains the spacing between the carbon atoms of the amino acid residues is used; it is particularly preferred if the linker moiety has substantially the same charge distribution and substantially the same planarity as a peptide bond. It will also be appreciated that the peptide may conveniently be blocked at its N- or C-terminus so as to help reduce susceptibility to exoproteolytic digestion. For example, the N-terminal amino group of the peptides may be protected by reacting with a carboxylic acid and the C-terminal carboxyl group of the peptide may be protected by reacting with an amine. Other examples of modifications include glycosylation and phosphorylation. Another potential modification is that hydrogens on the side chain amines of R or K may be replaced with methylene groups (\u2014NH\u2192\u2014NH(Me) or \u2014N(Me)).","Analogues of peptides according to the invention may also include peptide variants that increase or decrease the peptide's half-life in vivo. Examples of analogues capable of increasing the half-life of peptides used according to the invention include peptoid analogues of the peptides, D-amino acid derivatives of the peptides, and peptide-peptoid hybrids. A further embodiment of the variant polypeptides used according to the invention comprises D-amino acid forms of the polypeptide. The preparation of polypeptides using D-amino acids rather than L-amino acids greatly decreases any unwanted breakdown of such an agent by normal metabolic processes, decreasing the amounts of agent which needs to be administered, along with the frequency of its administration.","The peptides provided by the present invention may be derived from splice variants of the parent proteins encoded by mRNA generated by alternative splicing of the primary transcripts encoding the parent protein chains. The peptides may also be derived from amino acid mutants, glycosylation variants and other covalent derivatives of the parent proteins which retain at least an MHC-binding property of the allergens. Exemplary derivatives include molecules wherein the peptides of the invention are covalently modified by substitution, chemical, enzymatic, or other appropriate means with a moiety other than a naturally occurring amino acid. Further included are naturally occurring variants of the parent proteins found in different mites. Such a variant may be encoded by an allelic variant or represent an alternative splicing variant.","Variants as described above may be prepared during synthesis of the peptide or by post-production modification, or when the peptide is in recombinant form using the known techniques of site-directed mutagenesis, random mutagenesis, or enzymatic cleavage and\/or ligation of nucleic acids.","In accordance with the invention, the further peptides that the composition may comprise are preferably functional variants of any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31.","That is, the peptides are preferably capable of inducing an immune response. In particular, the peptides are preferably capable of inducing cytokine production in ragweed allergic individuals. Typically, the composition of the invention will therefore comprise at least one polypeptide or variant thereof which produces a cytokine response in greater than 45, 50, 55%, preferably 60% or 65% of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals. The number of individuals in a panel of ragweed allergic individuals may be any number greater than one, for example at least 20, 30, 40, 50, 80, or at least 100 individuals. Preferably the composition comprises at least two, three or most preferably four such peptides. Preferably the cytokine response is production of IL-13 or IFN-gamma. Cytokine production may be measured by any suitable method. Production of a cytokine is typically considered to have occurred in response to a peptide if the level of cytokine produced in the presence of the peptide is at least 2, 3, 4 or 5 fold above the background level of said cytokine that is produced in the absence of a stimulus (i.e. the level produced by the same individual in the absence of the peptide or any other stimulus). Alternatively, production of a cytokine may be considered to have occurred if the amount of cytokine produced exceeds a recognised limit, typically 90, 95, or preferably 100 pg\/ml, typically from a sample of approximately 1.25\u00d710cells in 250 \u03bcl.","Suitable methods for measuring cytokine production typically include measuring the cytokine release from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from a taken sample from a subject. The sample is typically blood or serum. Cytokine release from PBMCs is measured after incubating the cells in the presence of a given peptide. Supernatants from the incubation mixture are then tested for the presence of a cytokine, using any suitable assay, for example an ELISA, ELISPOT assay or flow cytometric assay. Particularly preferred methods include Multiplex bead array assays as described in, for example de Jager et al; Clinical and Diagnostic Laboratory Immunology, 2003, Vol 10(1) p. 133-139. Typically, the composition may comprise at least one additional peptide or variant thereof that is not amongst the polypeptides already selected, up to a total of thirteen different peptides, which produces a cytokine response in greater than 30%, 35%, 40%, preferably 45% or 50% of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals.","The composition may further comprise one or more additional peptides or variants thereof that are not amongst the polypeptides already selected, up to a total of thirteen different peptides, which produce a cytokine response in greater than 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, preferably 30% or 35% of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals.","The composition may further comprise one or more additional peptides which induce release of IL-10. IL-10 is known as an immune modulator which can shift T cell responses away from an allergic-type response. A significant IL-10 release may lead to induction of regulatory T cells which give rise to or improve toleration of the presence of the other peptides of the composition.","Preferably, said peptide may induce release of IL-10 in at least 35, 40, 45, 50 or 55% of a population. In this embodiment, the peptide is therefore able to bind to a subset of MHC alleles which is representative of an equivalent proportion of the sample population. Preferably, the peptides induce IL-10 release in 55% or more, 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, or 90% or more of a population.","\u201cInduction of IL-10 release\u201d is herein defined as a release which is measurable by methods commonly used in the art. Typically, the response is measured in vitro using T cells obtained from the allergic individuals. An \u201cinduction\u201d is scored as an IL-10 level which is greater than that observed in a control sample where T cells are not exposed to the peptide. In some embodiments, an induction of IL-10 release suitable for tolerisation may be defined as an IL-10 release at least 35, 40, 45, 50 or 55% of the average amount of IL-10 released in response to the whole protein allergen of which the first polypeptide is a fragment. It should be understood that the protein allergen used as a comparison may be the whole intact polypeptide or may be a truncated form that comprises the T cell epitopes which mediate immune response to the protein allergen. Commonly, individual peptides derived from the protein allergen will show an average IL-10 release that is much lower than that obtained in response to the whole or truncated protein allergen as defined above. However, individual peptides that show IL-10 release at least 35, 40, 45, 50 or 55% of the IL-10 release to the whole or truncated protein allergen may be particularly suitable tolerising agents. The peptides may also display an average response that is the same as, or greater than, the response observed in response to whole or truncated protein allergen.","Alternatively the average level of IL-10 released may be measured in absolute terms, in which case an average level above approximately 400, 450, 500 or 550 pg\/ml will be considered to be an induction, typically from a sample of approximately 1.25\u00d710cells in 2504","It should be understood that average may be the mean, median or mode of the individual IL-10 releases observed in the population. It should be understood that where an individual in the population displays an unusually low or unusually high IL-10 release in comparison to the other members of the population, they may be excluded from the average. This may allow for measurement of an average that is more representative of the responses shown in the population. The term \u2018unusually low\u2019 or unusually high\u2019 may refer to differentials of 10-fold or 20-fold as compared to a more representative average of the IL-10 releases that excludes the individuals showing unusual IL-10 release characteristics.","Suitable variants capable of binding to TCRs may be derived empirically or selected according to known criteria. Within a single peptide there are certain residues which contribute to binding within the MHC antigen binding groove and other residues which interact with hypervariable regions of the T cell receptor (Allen et al (1987) Nature 327: 713-5).","Within the residues contributing to T cell receptor interaction, a hierarchy has been demonstrated which pertains to dependency of T cell activation upon substitution of a given peptide residue. Using peptides which have had one or more T cell receptor contact residues substituted with a different amino acid, several groups have demonstrated profound effects upon the process of T cell activation. Evavold & Allen (1991) Nature 252: 1308-10) demonstrated the dissociation of T cell proliferation and cytokine production. In this in vitro model, a T cell clone specific for residues 64-76 of haemoglobin (in the context of I-E), was challenged with a peptide analogue in which a conservative substitution of aspartic acid for glutamic acid had been made. This substitution did not significantly interfere with the capacity of the analogue to bind to I-E.","Following in vitro challenge of a T cell clone with this analogue, no proliferation was detected although IL-4 secretion was maintained, as was the capacity of the clone to help B cell responses. In a subsequent study the same group demonstrated the separation of T cell-mediated cytolysis from cytokine production. In this instance, the former remained unaltered while the latter was impaired. The efficacy of altered peptide ligands in vivo was initially demonstrated in a murine model of EAE (experimental allergic encephalomyelitis) by McDevitt and colleagues (Smilek et al (1991) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 88: 9633-9637). In this model EAE is induced by immunisation with the encephalitogenic peptide Ac 1-11 of MBP (myelin basic protein). Substitution at position four (lysine) with an alanine residue generated a peptide which bound well to its restricting element (A\u03b1A\u03b2), but which was non-immunogenic in the susceptible PL\/JxSJLF1 strain and which, furthermore prevented the onset of EAE when administered either before or after immunisation with the encephalitogenic peptide. Thus, residues can be identified in peptides which affect the ability of the peptides to induce various functions of T-cells.","Advantageously, peptides may be designed to favour T-cell proliferation and induction of desensitisation. Metzler and Wraith have demonstrated improved tolerogenic capacity of peptides in which substitutions increasing peptide-MHC affinity have been made (Metzler & Wraith (1993) Int Immunol \u02dc: 1159-65). That an altered peptide ligand can cause long-term and profound anergy in cloned T cells was demonstrated by Sloan-Lancaster et al (1993) Nature 363: 156-9.","The compositions of the invention are capable of inducing a late phase response in an individual that is sensitised to the allergens. The term \u201clate phase response\u201d includes the meaning as set forth in Allergy and Allergic Diseases (1997) A. B. Kay (Ed.), Blackwell Science, pp 1113-1130. The late phase response may be any late phase response (LPR). Preferably, the peptides are capable of inducing a late asthmatic response (LAR) or a late rhinitic response, or a late phase skin response or a late phase ocular response. Whether or not a particular peptide can give rise to a LPR can be determined using methods well known in the art; a particularly preferred method is that described in Cromwell O, Durham S R, Shaw R J, Mackay J and Kay A B. Provocation tests and measurements of mediators from mast cells and basophils in asthma and allergic rhinitis. In: Handbook of Experimental Immunology (4) Chapter 127, Editor: Weir D M, Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1986.","Thus, preferably, the individual peptides of the invention are able to induce a LPR in an individual who has been sensitised to the allergens. Whether or not an individual has been sensitised to the allergens may be determined by well known procedures such as skin prick testing with solutions of allergen extracts, induction of cutaneous LPRs, clinical history, allergen challenge and radioallergosorbent test (RAST) for measurement of allergen specific IgE. Whether or not a particular individual is expected to benefit from treatment may be determined by the physician based, for example, on such tests.","Desensitising or tolerising an individual to the allergens means inhibition or dampening of allergic tissue reactions induced by the allergens in appropriately sensitised individuals. It has been shown that T cells can be selectively activated, and then rendered unresponsive. Moreover the anergising or elimination of these T-cells leads to desensitisation of the patient for a particular allergen. The desensitisation manifests itself as a reduction in response to an allergen or allergen-derived peptide, or preferably an elimination of such a response, on second and further administrations of the allergen or allergen-derived peptide. The second administration may be made after a suitable period of time has elapsed to allow desensitisation to occur; this is preferably any period between one day and several weeks. An interval of around two weeks is preferred.","Although the compositions of the invention are able to induce a LPR in a ragweed allergic individual, it should be appreciated that when a composition is used to treat a patient it is preferable that a sufficiently low concentration of the composition is used such that no observable LPR will occur but the response will be sufficient to partially desensitise the T cells such that the next (preferably higher) dose may be given, and so on. In this way the dose is built up to give full desensitisation but often without ever inducing a LPR in the patient. Although, the composition or peptide is able to do so at a higher concentration than is administered. The compositions of the invention preferably are capable of inducing a late phase response in 50% or more of a panel of ragweed allergic individuals from the population. More preferably, the compositions are capable of inducing a LPR in 55% or more, 60% or more, 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, or 90% or more of sensitized individuals in a panel. Whether or not the compositions are able to induce a LPR in a certain percentage of a panel of subjects can be determined by methods which are well known in the art.","It will be understood that the peptides of the invention comprise a T cell epitope that consists of a core 9 amino acids which are the minimal essential sequence required for MHC class II binding. However, the peptides may also comprise additional residues flanking the core 9 amino acids. The peptides may therefore comprise a region containing a T cell epitope, in which some residues may be modified without affecting the function of the epitope. Accordingly, functional variants of the peptides as defined above include peptides which are altered to improve their solubility relative to the native sequence of the peptides. Improved solubility is advantageous for the tolerisation of subjects to allergens from which the peptides of the invention derive, since administration of poorly soluble agents to subjects causes undesirable, non-tolerising inflammatory responses. The solubility of the peptides may be improved by altering the residues which flank the region containing a T cell epitope. A peptide of the invention may be engineered to be more soluble such that it comprises:\n\n","Optionally, the peptides may additionally be engineered to be more soluble such that:","i) any cysteine residues in the native sequence of the peptide are replaced with serine or 2-aminobutyric acid; and\/or","ii) any residues at the N and\/or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide, which are not comprised in a T cell epitope, are deleted; and\/or","iii) any two consecutive amino acids comprising the sequence Asp-Gly in the up to four amino acids at the N and\/or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide, which are not comprised in a T cell epitope, are deleted.","Nucleic Acids and Vectors","The individual peptides that make up the compositions and products of the invention may be administered directly, or may be administered indirectly by expression from an encoding sequence. For example, a polynucleotide may be provided that encodes a peptide of the invention, such as any of the peptides described above. A peptide of the invention may thus be produced from or delivered in the form of a polynucleotide which encodes, and is capable of expressing, it. Any reference herein to the use, delivery or administration of a peptide of the invention is intended to include the indirect use, delivery or administration of such a peptide via expression from a polynucleotide that encodes it.","The terms \u201cnucleic acid molecule\u201d and \u201cpolynucleotide\u201d are used interchangeably herein and refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, or analogs thereof. Non-limiting examples of polynucleotides include a gene, a gene fragment, messenger RNA (mRNA), cDNA, recombinant polynucleotides, plasmids, vectors, isolated DNA of any sequence, isolated RNA of any sequence, nucleic acid probes, and primers. A polynucleotide of the invention may be provided in isolated or purified form. A nucleic acid sequence which \u201cencodes\u201d a selected polypeptide is a nucleic acid molecule which is transcribed (in the case of DNA) and translated (in the case of mRNA) into a polypeptide in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the 5\u2032 (amino) terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3\u2032 (carboxy) terminus. For the purposes of the invention, such nucleic acid sequences can include, but are not limited to, cDNA from viral, prokaryotic or eukaryotic mRNA, genomic sequences from viral or prokaryotic DNA or RNA, and even synthetic DNA sequences. A transcription termination sequence may be located 3\u2032 to the coding sequence.","Polynucleotides of the invention can be synthesised according to methods well known in the art, as described by way of example in Sambrook et al (1931, Molecular Cloning\u2014a laboratory manual; Cold Spring Harbor Press).","The polynucleotide molecules of the present invention may be provided in the form of an expression cassette which includes control sequences operably linked to the inserted sequence, thus allowing for expression of the peptide of the invention in vivo in a targeted subject. These expression cassettes, in turn, are typically provided within vectors (e.g., plasmids or recombinant viral vectors) which are suitable for use as reagents for nucleic acid immunization. Such an expression cassette may be administered directly to a host subject. Alternatively, a vector comprising a polynucleotide of the invention may be administered to a host subject. Preferably the polynucleotide is prepared and\/or administered using a genetic vector. A suitable vector may be any vector which is capable of carrying a sufficient amount of genetic information, and allowing expression of a peptide of the invention.","The present invention thus includes expression vectors that comprise such polynucleotide sequences. Thus, the present invention provides a vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation comprising four or more polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides of the invention and optionally one or more further polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides as defined herein. The vector may comprise 4, 5, 6 or 7 polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides of the invention.","Furthermore, it will be appreciated that the compositions and products of the invention may comprise a mixture of polypeptides and polynucleotides. Accordingly, the invention provides a composition or product as defined herein, wherein in place of any one of the polypeptide is a polynucleotide capable of expressing said polypeptide.","Expression vectors are routinely constructed in the art of molecular biology and may for example involve the use of plasmid DNA and appropriate initiators, promoters, enhancers and other elements, such as for example polyadenylation signals which may be necessary, and which are positioned in the correct orientation, in order to allow for expression of a peptide of the invention. Other suitable vectors would be apparent to persons skilled in the art. By way of further example in this regard we refer to Sambrook et al.","Thus, a polypeptide of the invention may be provided by delivering such a vector to a cell and allowing transcription from the vector to occur. Preferably, a polynucleotide of the invention or for use in the invention in a vector is operably linked to a control sequence which is capable of providing for the expression of the coding sequence by the host cell, i.e. the vector is an expression vector.","\u201cOperably linked\u201d refers to an arrangement of elements wherein the components so described are configured so as to perform their usual function. Thus, a given regulatory sequence, such as a promoter, operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence is capable of effecting the expression of that sequence when the proper enzymes are present. The promoter need not be contiguous with the sequence, so long as it functions to direct the expression thereof. Thus, for example, intervening untranslated yet transcribed sequences can be present between the promoter sequence and the nucleic acid sequence and the promoter sequence can still be considered \u201coperably linked\u201d to the coding sequence.","A number of expression systems have been described in the art, each of which typically consists of a vector containing a gene or nucleotide sequence of interest operably linked to expression control sequences. These control sequences include transcriptional promoter sequences and transcriptional start and termination sequences. The vectors of the invention may be for example, plasmid, virus or phage vectors provided with an origin of replication, optionally a promoter for the expression of the said polynucleotide and optionally a regulator of the promoter. A \u201cplasmid\u201d is a vector in the form of an extrachromosomal genetic element. The vectors may contain one or more selectable marker genes, for example an ampicillin resistance gene in the case of a bacterial plasmid or a resistance gene for a fungal vector. Vectors may be used in vitro, for example for the production of DNA or RNA or used to transfect or transform a host cell, for example, a mammalian host cell. The vectors may also be adapted to be used in vivo, for example to allow in vivo expression of the polypeptide.","A \u201cpromoter\u201d is a nucleotide sequence which initiates and regulates transcription of a polypeptide-encoding polynucleotide. Promoters can include inducible promoters (where expression of a polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the promoter is induced by an analyte, cofactor, regulatory protein, etc.), repressible promoters (where expression of a polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the promoter is repressed by an analyte, cofactor, regulatory protein, etc.), and constitutive promoters. It is intended that the term \u201cpromoter\u201d or \u201ccontrol element\u201d includes full-length promoter regions and functional (e.g., controls transcription or translation) segments of these regions.","A polynucleotide, expression cassette or vector according to the present invention may additionally comprise a signal peptide sequence. The signal peptide sequence is generally inserted in operable linkage with the promoter such that the signal peptide is expressed and facilitates secretion of a polypeptide encoded by coding sequence also in operable linkage with the promoter.","Typically a signal peptide sequence encodes a peptide of 10 to 30 amino acids for example 15 to 20 amino acids. Often the amino acids are predominantly hydrophobic. In a typical situation, a signal peptide targets a growing polypeptide chain bearing the signal peptide to the endoplasmic reticulum of the expressing cell. The signal peptide is cleaved off in the endoplasmic reticulum, allowing for secretion of the polypeptide via the Golgi apparatus. Thus, a peptide of the invention may be provided to an individual by expression from cells within the individual, and secretion from those cells.","Alternatively, polynucleotides of the invention may be expressed in a suitable manner to allow presentation of a peptide of the invention by an MHC class II molecule at the surface of an antigen presenting cell. For example, a polynucleotide, expression cassette or vector of the invention may be targeted to antigen presenting cells, or the expression of encoded peptide may be preferentially stimulated or induced in such cells.","Polynucleotides of interest may be used in vitro, ex vivo or in vivo in the production of a peptide of the invention. Such polynucleotides may be administered or used in the prevention or treatment of allergy by tolerisation.","Methods for gene delivery are known in the art. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,399,346, 5,580,859 and 5,531,466. The nucleic acid molecule can be introduced directly into the recipient subject, such as by standard intramuscular or intradermal injection; transdermal particle delivery; inhalation; topically, or by oral, intranasal or mucosal modes of administration. The molecule alternatively can be introduced ex vivo into cells that have been removed from a subject. For example, a polynucleotide, expression cassette or vector of the invention may be introduced into APCs of an individual ex vivo. Cells containing the nucleic acid molecule of interest are re-introduced into the subject such that an immune response can be mounted against the peptide encoded by the nucleic acid molecule. The nucleic acid molecules used in such immunization are generally referred to herein as \u201cnucleic acid vaccines.\u201d","The polypeptides, polynucleotides, vectors or cells of the invention may be present in a substantially isolated form. They may be mixed with carriers or diluents which will not interfere with their intended use and still be regarded as substantially isolated. They may also be in a substantially purified form, in which case they will generally comprise at least 90%, e.g. at least 95%, 98% or 99%, of the proteins, polynucleotides, cells or dry mass of the preparation.","Antigen Presenting Cells (APCs)","The invention encompasses the use in vitro of a method of producing a population of APCs that present the peptides of the invention on their surface, that may be subsequently used in therapy. Such a method may be carried out ex vivo on a sample of cells that have been obtained from a patient. The APCs produced in this way therefore form a pharmaceutical agent that can be used in the treatment or prevention of ragweed allergy by tolerisation. The cells should be accepted by the immune system of the individual because they derive from that individual. Delivery of cells that have been produced in this way to the individual from whom they were originally obtained, thus forms a therapeutic embodiment of the invention.","Formulations and Compositions","The peptides, polynucleotides, vectors and cells of the invention may be provided to an individual either singly or in combination. Each molecule or cell of the invention may be provided to an individual in an isolated, substantially isolated, purified or substantially purified form. For example, a peptide of the invention may be provided to an individual substantially free from the other peptides.","Whilst it may be possible for the peptides, polynucleotides or compositions according to the invention to be presented in raw form, it is preferable to present them as a pharmaceutical formulation. Thus, according to a further aspect of the invention, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation comprising a composition, vector or product according to the invention together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents and optionally one or more other therapeutic ingredients. The carrier (s) must be \u2018acceptable\u2019 in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. Typically, carriers for injection, and the final formulation, are sterile and pyrogen free.","Formulation of a composition comprising the peptide, polynucleotides or cells of the invention can be carried out using standard pharmaceutical formulation chemistries and methodologies all of which are readily available to the reasonably skilled artisan.","For example, compositions containing one or more molecules or cells of the invention can be combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or vehicles. Auxiliary substances, such as wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering substances and the like, may be present in the excipient or vehicle. These excipients, vehicles and auxiliary substances are generally pharmaceutical agents that do not induce an immune response in the individual receiving the composition, and which may be administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include, but are not limited to, liquids such as water, saline, polyethyleneglycol, hyaluronic acid and ethanol. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be included therein, for example, mineral acid salts such as hydrochlorides, hydrobromides, phosphates, sulfates, and the like; and the salts of organic acids such as acetates, propionates, malonates, benzoates, and the like. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, vehicles and auxiliary substances is available in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (Mack Pub. Co., N.J. 1991).","Such compositions may be prepared, packaged, or sold in a form suitable for bolus administration or for continuous administration. Injectable compositions may be prepared, packaged, or sold in unit dosage form, such as in ampoules or in multi-dose containers containing a preservative. Compositions include, but are not limited to, suspensions, solutions, emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, pastes, and implantable sustained-release or biodegradable formulations. Such compositions may further comprise one or more additional ingredients including, but not limited to, suspending, stabilizing, or dispersing agents. In one embodiment of a composition for parenteral administration, the active ingredient is provided in dry (for e.g., a powder or granules) form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle (e.g., sterile pyrogen-free water) prior to parenteral administration of the reconstituted composition. The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared, packaged, or sold in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension or solution. This suspension or solution may be formulated according to the known art, and may comprise, in addition to the active ingredient, additional ingredients such as the dispersing agents, wetting agents, or suspending agents described herein. Such sterile injectable formulations may be prepared using a non-toxic parenterally-acceptable diluent or solvent, such as water or 1,3-butane diol, for example. Other acceptable diluents and solvents include, but are not limited to, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride solution, and fixed oils such as synthetic mono- or di-glycerides. Other parentally-administrable compositions which are useful include those which comprise the active ingredient in microcrystalline form, in a liposomal preparation, or as a component of a biodegradable polymer systems. Compositions for sustained release or implantation may comprise pharmaceutically acceptable polymeric or hydrophobic materials such as an emulsion, an ion exchange resin, a sparingly soluble polymer, or a sparingly soluble salt.","Alternatively, the peptides or polynucleotides of the present invention may be encapsulated, adsorbed to, or associated with, particulate carriers. Suitable particulate carriers include those derived from polymethyl methacrylate polymers, as well as PLG microparticles derived from poly(lactides) and poly(lactide-co-glycolides). See, e.g., Jeffery et al. (1993) Pharm. Res. 10:362-368. Other particulate systems and polymers can also be used, for example, polymers such as polylysine, polyarginine, polyornithine, spermine, spermidine, as well as conjugates of these molecules.","The formulation of any of the peptides, polynucleotides or cells mentioned herein will depend upon factors such as the nature of the substance and the method of delivery. Any such substance may be administered in a variety of dosage forms. It may be administered orally (e.g. as tablets, troches, lozenges, aqueous or oily suspensions, dispersible powders or granules), parenterally, epicutaneously, subcutaneously, by inhalation, intravenously, intramuscularly, intrasternally, transdermally, intradermally, sublingually, instranasally, buccally or by infusion techniques. The substance may also be administered as suppositories. A physician will be able to determine the required route of administration for each particular individual.","The compositions of formulations of the invention will comprise a suitable concentration of each peptide\/polynucleotide\/cell to be effective without causing adverse reaction. Typically, the concentration of each peptide in the composition will be in the range of 0.03 to 200 nmol\/ml. More preferably in the range of 0.3 to 200 nmol\/ml, 3 to 180 nmol\/ml, 10 to 150 nmol\/ml or 30 to 120 nmol\/ml. The composition or formulations should have a purity of greater than 95% or 98% or a purity of at least 99%.","In one embodiment, therefore, the peptides, polynucleotides, cells or compositions of the invention are used for therapy in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents. The agents may be administered separately, simultaneously or sequentially. They may be administered in the same or different compositions. Accordingly, in a method of the invention, the subject may also be treated with a further therapeutic agent.","A composition may therefore be formulated which comprises a molecule and\/or cell of the invention and also one or more other therapeutic molecules. A composition of the invention may alternatively be used simultaneously, sequentially or separately with one or more other therapeutic compositions as part of a combined treatment.","Therapeutic Methods and Individual to be Treated","The present invention relates to peptides, polynucleotides, vectors and cells that are capable of desensitising or tolerising human individuals to the allergens described above and are therefore useful in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy. The invention provides compositions, products, vectors and formulations for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation. The invention also provides a method of tolerising or desensitizing a ragweed allergic individual comprising administering, either singly or in combination the polypeptides\/polynucleotides\/cells of the invention as described above.","The individual to be treated or provided with the composition or formulation of the invention is preferably human. It will be appreciated that the individual to be treated may be known to be sensitised to the allergens, at risk of being sensitised or suspected of being sensitised. The individual can be tested for sensitisation using techniques well known in the art and as described herein. Alternatively, the individual may have a family history of allergy to ragweed. It may not be necessary to test an individual for sensitisation to ragweed because the individual may display symptoms of allergy when exposed to ragweed. By exposure is meant proximity to, for example, a ragweed plant, or a substance or product derived from a ragweed plant, or a substance or product containing or comprising either of the above. The substance or product derived from a ragweed plant is typically ragweed pollen. By proximity is meant 10 meters or less, 5 meters or less, 2 meters or less, 1 meter or less, or 0 meters from the items described above. Symptoms of allergy can include itchy eyes, runny nose, breathing difficulties, red itchy skin or rash.","The individual to be treated may be of any age. However, preferably, the individual may be in the age group of 1 to 90, 5 to 60, 10 to 40, or more preferably 18 to 35.","Preferably, the individual to be treated is from a population that has MHC allele frequencies within the range of frequencies that are representative of the Caucasian population. Reference population allele frequencies for 11 common DRB1 allele families are shown in Table 1 (Data from HLA Facts Book, Parham and Barber).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0183"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"12"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"12","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["DRB1","1","3","4","7","8","11","12","13","14","15","16"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"12","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"12"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["%","6.4","14.7","15.7","8.8","3.4","8.3","3.9","14.7","2.9","17.6","2.5"]},{"entry":["Reference","9.4","11.1","12.8","13.2","3.7","13.4","2.3","10.2","3.2","10.7","3.6"]},{"entry":"population %"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"12","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},"Preferably the individual is from a population where the allele frequencies of the following DRB1 alleles is:","4\u2014at least 9%","7\u2014at least 10%","11\u2014at least 8%.","The individual may have had allergy to ragweeds for at least 2 weeks, 1 month, 6 months, 1 year or 5 years. The individual may suffer from a rash, nasal congestion, nasal discharge and\/or coughing caused by the allergy. The individual may or may not have been administered with other compositions\/compounds which treat ragweed allergy.","The individual typically lives in a geographical region with a warm and moist climate. The individual typically suffers from allergy to ragweed in a particular season. The season typically corresponds to the flowering season of ragweed, which is typically summer to Autumn, preferably late summer (for July to August in the Northern hemisphere) to early Autumn (September to October in the Northern hemisphere). The ragweed allergic individual is typically allergic to ragweed pollen.","Combination Immunotherapy","Since many individuals are allergic, or may require desensitizing to several polypeptide antigens, the current invention also provides means of desensitizing individuals that are allergic to multiple antigens. \u201cTolerance\u201d induced in an individual to a first polypeptide antigen or allergen can create in the individual a \u201ctolergeneic environment\u201d wherein inappropriate immune responses to other antigens can be downregulated in order to provide tolerance to other antigens.","This finding means that individuals allergic to multiple allergens can be treated in a greatly reduced time period, and that individuals seriously allergic to some allergens (e.g., peanuts) but more mildly allergic to other allergens (e.g., cat dander) can benefit from a therapy wherein tolerance to the milder allergen is established and then this tolergeneic environment is used to provide tolerance to the other, more extreme allergen. In addition, individuals suffering from an autoimmune disorder who are additionally sensitised (or otherwise immune) to an unrelated antigen or allergen can benefit from a treatment regime wherein tolerance to the unrelated antigen or allergen is first established and then this tolergeneic environment is used to provide tolerance to the autoantigen associated with the autoimmune disorder.","A method is therefore provided for desensitising a ragweed allergic individual to ragweed allergen as described above and one or more further different polypeptide antigens. The method entails, in a first step, administering to the individual a composition\/product\/formulation (primary composition) according to the invention as described herein and wherein the administration is carried out in a manner sufficient to generate a hyporesponsive state against ragweed allergen. Once a hyporesponsive state has been established toward ragweed allergen, or at least a shift toward desensitisation has occurred, the method entails administration of a secondary composition comprising a second, different polypeptide antigen to which the individual is to be sensitised. Administration of the secondary composition is carried out in such a way as to take advantage of the tolergeneic environment established by use of the primary composition, where it is now possible to establish tolerance to the second, different polypeptide antigen. The secondary composition is coadministered with either the first primary composition or a larger fragment of the allergen from which the primary composition derives. By \u201ccoadministered\u201d it is meant either the simultaneous or concurrent administration, e.g., when the two are present in the same composition or administered in separate compositions at nearly the same time but at different sites, as well as the delivery of polypeptide antigens in separate compositions at different times. For example, the secondary composition may be delivered prior to or subsequent to delivery of the first composition at the same or a different site. The timing between deliveries can range from about several seconds apart to about several minutes apart, several hours apart, or even several days apart. Furthermore, different delivery methods can be employed.","The second polypeptide antigen is preferably an allergen different to the ragweed allergen. Suitable allergens for use in the methods of the invention can of course be obtained and\/or produced using known methods. Classes of suitable allergens include, but are not limited to, other ragweed allergens, pollens, animal dander (especially cat dander), grasses, molds, dusts, antibiotics, stinging insect venoms, and a variety of environmental (including chemicals and metals), drug and food allergens. Common tree allergens include pollens from cottonwood, popular, ash, birch, maple, oak, elm, hickory, and pecan trees; common plant allergens include those from mugwort, ragweed, English plantain, sorrel-dock and pigweed; plant contact allergens include those from poison oak, poison ivy and nettles; common grass allergens include rye grass, Timothy, Johnson, Bermuda, fescue and bluegrass allergens; common allergens can also be obtained from molds or fungi such as and thermophilic actinomycetes; epidermal allergens can be obtained from house or organic dusts (typically fungal in origin), or from animal sources such as feathers, and dog dander; common food allergens include milk and cheese (diary), egg, wheat, nut (e.g., peanut), seafood (e.g., shellfish), pea, bean and gluten allergens; common environmental allergens include metals (nickel and gold), chemicals (formaldehyde, trinitrophenol and turpentine), Latex, rubber, fiber (cotton or wool), burlap, hair dye, cosmetic, detergent and perfume allergens; common drug allergens include local anesthetic and salicylate allergens; antibiotic allergens include penicillin, tetracycline and sulfonamide allergens; and common insect allergens include bee, wasp and ant venom, and cockroach calyx allergens. Particularly well characterized allergens include, but are not limited to, the major cat allergen Fel d1, bee venom phospholipase A2 (PLA) (Akdis et al. (1996) 98:1676-1683), birch pollen allergen Bet v 1 (Bauer et al. (1997) 107:536-541), and the multi-epitopic recombinant grass allergen rKBG8.3 (Cao et al. (1997) 90:46-51). These and other suitable allergens are commercially available and\/or can be readily prepared as extracts following known techniques.","Preferably, the second polypeptide allergen is selected from the list of allergen sequences and database accession numbers (NCBI Entrez accession numbers) below. NCBI is the National Center for Biotechnology information and is a division of the US National Institutes of Health. The NCBI web site, from which access to the database may be sought, is www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov\/. Allergen sequences and database accession numbers (NCBI Entrez accession numbers):","Dermatophagoides Pteronyssinus",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0192"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200347)"},{"entry":"MKIVLAIASLLALSAVYARPSSIKTFEEYKKAFNKSYATFEDEEAARKNF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LESVKYVQSNGGAINHLSDLSLDEFKNRFLMSAEAFEHLKTQFDLNAETN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ACSINGNAPAEIDLRQMRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVAATESAYLAYRN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QSLDLAEQELVDCASQHGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQHNGVVQESYYRYVAREQS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"CRRPNAQRFGISNYCQIYPPNVNKIREALAQTHSAIAVIIGIKDLDAFRH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YDGRTIIQRDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYSNAQGVDYWIVRNSWDTNWGDNGYG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YFAANIDLMMIEEYPYVVIL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200348)"},{"entry":"MMYKILCLSLLVAAVARDQVDVKDCANHEIKKVLVPGCHGSEPCIIHRGK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PFQLEAVFEANQNTKTAKIEKASIDGLEVDVPGIDPNACHYMKCPLVKGQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QYDIKYTWNVPKIAPKSENVVVTVKVMGDDGVLACAIATHAKIRD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20033"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200349)"},{"entry":"MIIYNILIVLLLAINTLANPILPASPNATIVGGEKALAGECPYQISLQSS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SHFCGGTILDEYWILTAAHCVAGQTASKLSIRYNSLKHSLGGEKISVAKI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FAHEKYDSYQIDNDIALIKLKSPMKLNQKNAKAVGLPAKGSDVKVGDQVR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VSGWGYLEEGSYSLPSELRRVDIAVVSRKECNELYSKANAEVTDNMICGG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DVANGGKDSCQGDSGGPVVDVKNNQVVGIVSWGYGCARKGYPGVYTRVGN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FIDWIESKRSQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20034"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200350)"},{"entry":"KYXNPHFIGXRSVITXLME"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200351)"},{"entry":"MKFIIAFFVATLAVMTVSGEDKKHDYQNEFDFLLMERIHEQEKKGELALF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YLQEQINHFEEKPTKEMKDKIVAEMDTIIAMIDGVRGVLDRLMQRKDLDI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FEQYNLEMAKKSGDILERDLKKEEARVKKIEV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200352)"},{"entry":"AIGXQPAAEAEAPFQISLMK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p\u20037"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200353)"},{"entry":"MMKLLLIAAAAFVAVSADPIHYDKITEEINKAVDEAVAAIEKSETFDPMK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VPDHSDKFERHIGIIDLKGELDMRNIQVRGLKQMKRVGDANVKSEDGVVK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AHLLVGVHDDVVSMEYDLAYKLGDLHPNTHVISDIQDFVVELSLEVSEEG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NMTLTSFEVRQFANVVNHIGGLSILDPIFAVLSDVLTAIFQDTVRAEMTK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VLAPAFKKELERNNQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003p9"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200354)"},{"entry":"IVGGSNASPGDAVYQIAL"}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0193"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Der\u2003f1"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200355)"},{"entry":"MKFVLAIASLLVLTVYARPASIKTFEFKKAFNKNYATVEEEEVARKNFLE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SLKYVEANKGAINHLSDLSLDEFKNRYLMSAEAFEQLKTQFDLNAETSAC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RINSVNVPSELDLRSLRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVAATESAYLAYRNT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SLDLSEQELVDCASQHGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQQNGVVEERSYPYVAREQRC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RRPNSQHYGISNYCQIYPPDVKQIREALTQTHTAIAVIIGIKDLRAFQHY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DGRTIIQHDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYGSTQGDDYWIVRNSWDTTWGDSGYGY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FQAGNNLMMIEQYPYVVIM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003f2"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200356)"},{"entry":"MISKILCLSLLVAAVVADQVDVKDCANNEIKKVMVDGCHGSDPCIIHRGK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PFTLEALFDANQNTKTAKIEIKASLDGLEIDVPGIDTNACHFMKCPLVKG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QQYDIKYTWNVPKIAPKSENVVVTVKLIGDNGVLACAIATHGKIRD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003f3"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200357)"},{"entry":"MMILTIVVLLAANILATPILPSSPNATIVGGVKAQAGDCPYQISLQSSSH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FCGGSILDEYWILTAAHCVNGQSAKKLSIRYNTLKHASGGEKIQVAEIYQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HENYDSMTIDNDVALIKLKTPMTLDQTNAKPVPLPAQGSDVKVGDKIRVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GWGYLQEGSYSLPSELQRVDIDVVSREQCDQLYSKAGADVSENMICGGDV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ANGGVDSCQGDSGGPVVDVATKQIVGIVSWGYGCARKGYPGVYTRVGNFV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DWIESKRSQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003f4"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200358)"},{"entry":"AVGGQDADLAEAPFQISLLK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Der\u2003f7"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200359)"},{"entry":"MMKFLLIAAVAFVAVSADPIHYDKITEEINKAIDDAIAALEQSETIDPMK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VPDHADKFERHVGIVDFKGELAMRNIEARGLKQMKRQGDANVKGEEGIVK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AHLLIGVHDDIVSMEYDLAYKLGDLHPTTHVISDIQDFVVALSLEISDEG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NITMTSFEVRQFANVVNHIGGLSILDPIFGVLSDVLTAIFQDTVRKEMTK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VLAPAFKRELEKN"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0194"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Hev\u2003b\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200360)"},{"entry":"MAEDEDNQQGQGEGLKYLGFVQDAATYAVTTFSNVYLFAKDKSGPLQPGV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DIIEGPVKNVAVPLYNRFSYIPNGALKFVDSTVVASVTIIDRSLPPIVKD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ASIQVVSAIRAAPEAARSLASSLPGQTKILAKVFYGEN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Hev\u2003b\u20033"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200361)"},{"entry":"MAEEVEEERLKYLDFVRAAGVYAVDSFSTLYLYAKDISGPLKPGVDTIEN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VVKTVVTPVYYIPLEAVKFVDKTVDVSVTSLDGVVPPVIKQVSAQTYSVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QDAPRIVLDVASSVFNTGVQEGAKALYANLEPKAEQYAVITWRALNKLPL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VPQVANVVVPTAVYFSEKYNDVVRGTTEQGYRVSSYLPLLPTEKITKVFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DEAS"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0157","num":"0195"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"126385\u2003Lol\u2003p\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200362)"},{"entry":"MASSSSVLLVVALFAVFLGSAHGIAKVPPGPNITAEYGDKWLDAKSTWYG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KPTGAGPKDNGGACGYKNVDKAPFNGMTGCGNTPIFKDGRGCGSCFEIKC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TKPESCSGEAVTVTITDDNEEPIAPYHFDLSGHAFGSMAKKGEEQNVRSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GELELQFRRVKCKYPDDTKPTFHVEKASNPNYLAILVKYVDGDGDVVAVD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IKEKGKDKWIELKESWGAVWRIDTPDKLTGPFTVRYTTEGGTKSEFEDVI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PEGWKADTSYSAK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"126386\u2003Lol\u2003p\u20032a"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200363)"},{"entry":"AAPVEFTVEKGSDEKNLALSIKYNKEGDSMAEVELKEHGSNEWLALKKNG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DGVWEIKSDKPLKGPFNFRFVSEKGMRNVFDDVVPADFKVGTTYKPE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"126387\u2003Lol\u2003p\u20033"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200364)"},{"entry":"TKVDLTVEKGSDAKTLVLNIKYTRPGDTLAEVELRQHGSEEWEPMTKKGN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LWEVKSAKPLTGPMNFRFLSKGGMKNVFDEVIPTAFTVGKTYTPEYN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"2498581\u2003Lol\u2003p\u20035a"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200365)"},{"entry":"MAVQKYTVALFLRRGPRGGPGRSYAADAGYTPAAAATPATPAATPAGGWR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EGDDRRAEAAGGRQRLASRQPWPPLPTPLRRTSSRSSRPPSPSPPRASSP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TSAAKAPGLIPKLDTAYDVAYKAAEAHPRGQVRRLRHCPHRSLRVIAGAL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EVHAVKPATEEVLAAKIPTGELQIVDKIDAAFKIAATAANAAPTNDKFTV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FESAFNKALNECTGGAMRPTSSSPPSRPRSSRPTPPPSPAAPEVKYAVFE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AALTKAITAMTQAQKAGKPAAAAATAAATVATAAATAAAVLPPPLLVVQS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LISLLIYY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"2498582\u2003Lol\u2003p\u20035b"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200366)"},{"entry":"MAVQKHTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADAGYAPATPATPAAPATAATPATP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATPATPAAVPSGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAAVAAAAVVPPADKYKTFVE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TFGTATNKAFVEGLASGYADQSKNQLTSKLDAALKLAYEAAQGATPEAKY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DAYVATLTEALRVIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVGAIPAAEVQLIDKVDAAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RTAATAANAAPANDKFTVFENTFNNAIKVSLGAAYDSYKFIPTLVAAVKQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYAAKQATAPEVKYTVSETALKKAVTAMSEAEKEATPAAAATATPTPAAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TATATPAAAYATATPAAATATATPAAATATPAAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"455288\u2003Lol\u2003p\u2003isoform\u20039"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200367)"},{"entry":"MAVQKHTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADAGYAPATPATPAAPATAATPATP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATPATPAAVPSGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAAVAAAAVVPPADKYKTFVE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TFGTATNKAFVEGLASGYADQSKNQLTSKLDAALKLAYEAAQGATPEAKY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DAYVATLTEALRVIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVGAIPAAEVQLIDKVDAAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RTAATAANAAPANDKFTVFENTFNNAIKVSLGAAYDSYKFIPTLVAAVKQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYAAKQATAPEVKYTVSETALKKAVTAMSEAEKEATPAAAATATPTPAAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TATATPAAAYATATPAAATATATPAAATATPAAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1582249\u2003Lol\u2003p\u200311"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200368)"},{"entry":"DKGPGFVVTGRVYCDPCRAGFETNVSHNVEGATVAVDCRPFDGGESKLKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EATTDKDGWYKIEDQDHQEEICEVVLAKSPDKSCSEIEEFRDRARVPLTS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NXGIKQQGIRYANPIAFFRKEPLKECGGILQAY"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0196"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"416610\u2003Ole\u2003e\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200369)"},{"entry":"EDIPQPPVSQFHIQGQVYCDTCRAGFITELSEFIPGASLRLQCKDKENGD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VTFTEVGYTRAEGLYSMLVERDHKNEFCEITLISSGRKDCNEIPTEGWAK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PSLKFKLNTVNGTTRTVNPLGFFKKEALPKCAQVYNKLGMYPPNM"}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0197"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"2497750\u2003Par\u2003j\u2003P2"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200370)"},{"entry":"MRTVSMAALVVIAAALAWTSSAEPAPAPAPGEEACGKVVQDIMPCLHFVK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GEEKEPSKECCSGTKKLSEEVKTTEQKREACKCIVRATKGISGIKNELVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EVPKKCDIKTTLPPITADFDCSKIQSTIFRGYY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1352506\u2003Par\u2003j\u2003P5"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200371)"},{"entry":"MVRALMPCLPFVQGKEKEPSKGCCSGAKRLDGETKTGPQRVHACECIQTA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MKTYSDIDGKLVSEVPKHCGIVDSKLPPIDVNMDCKTVGVVPRQPQLPVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LRHGPVTGPSDPAHKARLERPQIRVPPPAPEKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1532056\u2003Parj\u2003P8"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200372)"},{"entry":"MRTVSMAALVVIAAALAWTSSAELASAPAPGEGPCGKVVHHIMPCLKFVK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GEEKEPSKSCCSGTKKLSEEVKTTEQKREACKCIVAATKGISGIKNELVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EVPKKCGITTTLPPITADFDCSKIESTIFRGYY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1532058\u2003Par\u2003j\u2003P9"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200373)"},{"entry":"MRTVSAPSAVALVVIVAAGLAWTSLASVAPPAPAPGSEETCGTVVRALMP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"CLPFVQGKEKEPSKGCCSGAKRLDGETKTGLQRVHACECIQTAMKTYSDI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DGKLVSEVPKHCGIVDSKLPPIDVNMDCKTLGVVPRQPQLPVSLRHGPVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GPSDPAHKARLERPQIRVPPPAPEKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"2497749\u2003Par\u2003j\u2003P9"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200374)"},{"entry":"MRTVSARSSVALVVIVAAVLVWTSSASVAPAPAPGSEETCGTVVGALMPC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LPFVQGKEKEPSKGCCSGAKRLDGETKTGPQRVHACECIQTAMKTYSDID"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GKLVSEVPKHCGIVDSKLPPIDVNMDCKTLGVLHYKGN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1086003\u2003Par\u2003j\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200375)"},{"entry":"MVRALMPCLPFVQGKEKEPSKGCCSGAKRLDGETKTGPQRVHACECIQTA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MKTYSDIDGKLVSEVPKHCGIVDSKLPPIDVNMDCKTVGVVPRQPQLPVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LRHGPVTGPSRSRPPTKHGWRDPRLEFRPPHRKKPNPAFSTLG"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0198"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200376)"},{"entry":"MASSSSVLLVVVLFAVFLGSAYGIPKVPPGPNITATYGDKWLDAKSTWYG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KPTGAGPKDNGGACGYKDVDKPPFSGMTGCGNTPIFKSGRGCGSCFEIKC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TKPEACSGEPVVVHITDDNEEPIAPYHFDLSGHAFGAMAKKGDEQKLRSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GELELQFRRVKCKYPEGTKVTFHVEKGSNPNYLALLVKYVNGDGDVVAVD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IKEKGKDKWIELKESWGAIWRIDTPDKLTGPFTVRYTTEGGTKTEAEDVI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PEGWKADTSYESK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200377)"},{"entry":"MASSSSVLLVVALFAVFLGSAHGIPKVPPGPNITATYGDKWLDAKSTWYG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KPTAAGPKDNGGACGYKDVDKPPFSGMTGCGNTPIFKSGRGCGSCFEIKC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TKPEACSGEPVVVHITDDNEEPIAAYHFDLSGIAFGSMAKKGDEQKLRSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GEVEIQFRRVKCKYPEGTKVTFHVEKGSNPNYLALLVKFSGDGDVVAVDI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KEKGKDKWIALKESWGAIWRIDTPEVLKGPFTVRYTTEGGTKARAKDVIP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EGWKADTAYESK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phlp\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200378)"},{"entry":"MSMASSSSSSLLAMAVLAALFAGAWCVPKVTFTVEKGSNEKHLAVLVKYE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GDTMAEVELREHGSDEWVAMTKGEGGVWTFDSEEPLQGPFNFRFLTEKGM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KNVFDDVVPEKYTIGATYAPEE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200379)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGGPATPAAPAEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINDGFKAALAAAAGVPP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ADKYKTFVATFGAASNKAFAEGLSAEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LQVIEKVDSAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNNAIKASTGGAYESYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAFTAMSEAQKAAKPAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EATATATAAVGAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200380)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGGPATPAAPAEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKIINDGFKAALAAAAGVP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PADKYKTFVATFGAASNKAFAEGLSAEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ELQVIEKVDSAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNNAIKASTGGAYESY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KFIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TEATATATAAVGAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035b"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200381)"},{"entry":"AAAAVPRRGPRGGPGRSYTADAGYAPATPAAAGAAAGKATTEEQKLIEDI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAAAAKAPGLVPKLDAAYS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VAYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QPATGAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035a"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200382)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAPAGADAAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AALAGAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGPASNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDEIKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"STGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200383)"},{"entry":"MAVQKYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADAGYAPATPAAAGAEAGKATTEEQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KLIEDINVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAATAKAPGLVPK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LDAAYSVSYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PGMAKIPAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADTVFEAAFNKAIKESTG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAYDTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KVSQPATGAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200384)"},{"entry":"MAVQKYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADAGYAPATPAAAGAEAGKATTEEQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KLIEDINVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAATAKAPGLVPK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LDAAYSVAYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTED"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PAWPKIPAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"STGGAYDTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EVQKVSQPATGAATVAAGAATTATGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200385)"},{"entry":"ADAGYAPATPAAAGAEAGKATTEEQKLIEDINVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FKTFEAAFTSSSKAATAKAPGLVPKLDAAYSVAYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKIPAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAYDTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVSQPATGAATVAAGAATTAAG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200386)"},{"entry":"SVKRSNGSAEVHRGAVPRRGPRGGPGRSYAADAGYAPATPAAAGAEAGKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TTEEQKLIEDINVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAATAKAP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GLVPKLDAAYSVAYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PVTEEPGMAKIPAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KAIKESTGGAYDTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ITAMSEVQKVSQPATGAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200387)"},{"entry":"MAVHQYTVALFLAVALVAGPAGSYAADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AGAEPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAALAAAAGVPPADKYRTFVATFGAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYVATVSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200388)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGGPATPAAPAEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINDGFKAALAAAAGVPP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ADKYKTFVATFGAASNKAFAEGLSAEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LQVIEKVDSAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNNAIKASTGGAYESYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAFTAMSEAQKAAKPAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EATATATAAVGAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p5b"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200389)"},{"entry":"AAAAVPRRGPRGGPGRSYTADAGYAPATPAAAGAAAGKATTEEQKLIEDI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NVGFKAAVAAAASVPAADKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAAAAKAPGLVPKLDAAYS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VAYKAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PAGELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DTYKCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QPATGAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p5a"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200390)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAPAGADAAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AALAGAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGPASNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDEIKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"STGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200391)"},{"entry":"AVPRRGPRGGPGRSYAADAGYAPATPAAAGAEAGKATTEEQKLIEDINVG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FKAAVAAAASVPAGDKFKTFEAAFTSSSKAATAKAPGLVPKLDAAYSVAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KAAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKIPAG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ELQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAYDTY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KCIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAPQVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVSQPA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TGAATVAAGAATTATGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035b"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200392)"},{"entry":"MAVPRRGPRGGPGRSYTADAGYAPATPAAAGAAAGKATTEEQKLIEDINV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GFKAAVAARQRPAADKFKTFEAASPRHPRPLRQGAGLVPKLDAAYSVAYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKIPAGE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAYDTYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"CIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAAEVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVSQPAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200393)"},{"entry":"MAVHQYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAALAAAAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200394)"},{"entry":"EAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAALARRLQPADKYRTFVATFGPASNKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAAELQVIEKVDAAFKVAATAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDEIKASTGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYAATVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPPPLPPPPQPPPLAATGAATA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200395)"},{"entry":"MAVHQYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAALAAAAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035b"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200396)"},{"entry":"MAVPRRGPRGGPGRSYTADAGYAPATPAAAGAAAGKATTEEQKLIEDINV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GFKAAVAARQRPAADKFKTFEAASPRHPRPLRQGAGLVPKLDAAYSVAYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AAVGATPEAKFDSFVASLTEALRVIAGALEVHAVKPVTEEPGMAKIPAGE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LQIIDKIDAAFKVAATAAATAPADDKFTVFEAAFNKAIKESTGGAYDTYK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"CIPSLEAAVKQAYAATVAAAAEVKYAVFEAALTKAITAMSEVQKVSQPAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATVAAGAATTAAGAASGAATVAAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035a"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200397)"},{"entry":"ADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAPAGADAAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AALAGAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGPASNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDEIKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"STGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYAATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EAQKAAKPPPLPPPPQPPPLAATGAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200398)"},{"entry":"MAVHQYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADLGYGPATPAAPAAGYTPATPAAP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEAAPAGKATTEEQKLIEKINAGFKAALAAAAGVQPADKYRTFVATFGAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNKAFAEGLSGEPKGAAESSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKTAEGATPEAKYD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAAEEVKVIPAGELQVIEKVDAAFKVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYESYKFIPALEAAVKQAYA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATVATAPEVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSEAQKAAKPAAAATATATAAVGAAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAATAATGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200399)"},{"entry":"MAAHKFMVAMFLAVAVVLGLATSPTAEGGKATTEEQKLIEDVNASFRAAM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATTANVPPADKYKTFEAAFTVSSKRNLADAVSKAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AADHAAPEDKYEAFVLHFSEALRIIAGTPEVHAVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003100)"},{"entry":"SKAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYNAADHAAPEDKYEAFVLHFSEALMIIAGTPEV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HAVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003101)"},{"entry":"ADKYKTFEAAFTVSSKRNLADAVSKAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYNAADHAAPE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DKYEAFVLHFSEALHILAGTPEVHAVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003102)"},{"entry":"TEEQKLIEDVNASFRAAMATTANVPPADKYKTLEAAFTVSSKRNLADAVS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYNAADHAAPEDKYEAFVLHFSEALRIIAGTPEVH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003103)"},{"entry":"MAAHKFMVAMFLAVAVVLGLATSPTAEGGKATTEEQKLIEDINASFRAAM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATTANVPPADKYKTFEAAFTVSSKRNLADAVSKAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AADHAAPEDKYEAFVLHFSEALHIIAGTPEVHAVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20036"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003104)"},{"entry":"MVAMFLAVAVVLGLATSPTAEGGKATTEEQKLIEDVNASFRAAMATTANV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PPADKYKTFEAAFTVSSKRNLADAVSKAPQLVPKLDEVYNAAYNAADHAA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PEDKYEAFVLHFSEALRIIAGTPEVHAVKPGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u20037"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003105)"},{"entry":"MADDMERIFKRFDTNGDGKISLSELTDALRTLGSTSADEVQRMMAEIDTD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GDGFIDFNEFISFCNANPGLMKDVAKVF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Phl\u2003p\u200311"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003106)"},{"entry":"MSWQTYVDEHLMCEIEGHHLASAAILGHDGTVWAQSADFPQFKPEEITGI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MKDFDEPGHLAPTGMFVAGAKYMVIQGEPGRVIRGKKGAGGITIKKTGQA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LVVGIYDEPMTPGQCNMVVERLGDYLVEQGM"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0199"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"465054\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003VES\u2003V\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003107)"},{"entry":"MEISGLVYLIIIVTIIDLPYGKANNYCKIKCLKGGVHTACKYGSLKPNCG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NKVVVSYGLTKQEKQDILKEHNDFRQKIARGLETRGNPGPQPPAKNMKNL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VWNDELAYVAQVWANQCQYGHDTCRDVAKYQVGQNVALTGSTAAKYDDPV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KLVKMWEDEVKDYNPKKKFSGNDFLKTGHYTQMVWANTKEVGCGSIKYIQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EKWHKHYLVCNYGPSGNFMNEELYQTK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1709545\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003VES\u2003M\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003108)"},{"entry":"GPKCPFNSDTVSIIIETRENRNRDLYTLQTLQNHPEFKKKTITRPVVFIT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HGFTSSASEKNFINLAKALVDKDNYMVISIDWQTAACTNEYPGLKYAYYP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TAASNTRLVGQYIATITQKLVKDYKISMANIRLIGHSLGAHVSGFAGKRV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QELKLGKYSEIIGLDPARPSFDSNHCSERLCETDAEYVQIIHTSNYLGTE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KILGTVDFYMNNGKNNPGCGRFFSEVCSHTRAVIYMAECIKHECCLIGIP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RSKSSQPISRCTKQECVCVGLNAKKYPSRGSFYVPVESTAPFCNNKGKII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1352699\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003VES\u2003V\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003109)"},{"entry":"MEENMNLKYLLLFVYFVQVLNCCYGHGDPLSYELDRGPKCPFNSDTVSII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IETRENRNRDLYTLQTLQNHPEFKKKTITRPVVFITHGFTSSASETNFIN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LAKALVDKDNYMVISIDWQTAACTNEAAGLKYLYYPTAARNTRLVGQYIA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TITQKLVKHYKISMANIRLIGHSLGAHASGFAGKKVQELKLGKYSEIIGL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DPARPSFDSNHCSERLCETDAEYVQIIHTSNYLGTEKTLGTVDFYMNNGK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NQPGCGRFFSEVCSHSRAVIYMAECIKHECCLIGIPKSKSSQPISSCTKQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ECVCVGLNAKKYPSRGSFYVPVESTAPFCNNKGKII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1346323\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003VES\u2003V\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003110)"},{"entry":"SERPKRVFNIYWNVPTFMCHQYDLYFDEVTNFNIKRNSKDDFQGDKIAIF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YDPGEFPALLSLKDGKYKKRNGGVPQEGNITIHLQKFIENLDKIYPNRNF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SGIGVIDFERWRPIFRQNWGNMKIHKNFSIDLVRNEHPTWNKKMIELEAS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KRFEKYARFFMEETLKLAKKTRKQADWGYYGYPYCFNMSPNNLVPECDVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AMHENDKMSWLFNNQNVLLPSVYVRQELTPDQRIGLVQGRVKEAVRISNN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LKHSPKVLSYWWYVYQDETNTFLTETDVKKTFQEIVINGGDGIIIWGSSS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DVNSLSKCKRLQDYLLTVLGPIAINVTEAVN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"549194\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003VES\u2003VI"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003111)"},{"entry":"5KVNYCKIKCLKGGVHTACKYGTSTKPNCGKMVVKAYGLTEAEKQEILKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HNDFRQKVAKGLETRGNPGPQPPAKNMNNLVWNDELANIAQVWASQCNYG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HDTCKDTEKYPVGQNIAKRSTTAALFDSPGKLVKMWENEVKDFNPNIEWS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KNNLKKTGHYTQMVWAKTKEIGCGSVKYVKDEWYTHYLVCNYGPSGNFRN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EKLYEKK"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0200"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"114922\u2003Bet\u2003v\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003112)"},{"entry":"MGVFNYETETTSVIPAARLFKAFILDGDNLFPKVAPQAISSVENIEGNGG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PGTIKKISFPEGFPFKYVKDRVDEVDHTNFKYNYSVIEGGPIGDTLEKIS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NELKIVATPDGGSILKISNKYHTKGDHEVKAEQVKASKEMGETLLRAVES"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YLLAHSDAYN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"130975\u2003Bet\u2003v\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003113)"},{"entry":"MSWQTYVDEHLMCDIDGQASNSLASAIVGHDGSVWAQSSSFPQFKPQEIT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GIMKDFEEPGHLAPTGLHLGGIKYMVIQGEAGAVIRGKKGSGGITIKKTG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QALVFGIYEEPVTPGQCNMVVERLGDYLIDQGL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1168696\u2003Bet\u2003v\u20033"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003114)"},{"entry":"MPCSTEAMEKAGHGHASTPRKRSLSNSSFRLRSESLNTLRLRRIFDLFDK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NSDGIITVDELSRALNLLGLETDLSELESTVKSFTREGNIGLQFEDFISL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HQSLNDSYFAYGGEDEDDNEEDMRKSILSQEEADSFGGFKVFDEDGDGYI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SARELQMVLGKLGFSEGSEIDRVEKMIVSVDSNRDGRVDFFEFKDMMRSV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LVRSS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"809536\u2003Bet\u2003v\u20034"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003115)"},{"entry":"MADDHPQDKAERERIFKRFDANGDGKISAAELGEALKTLGSITPDEVKHM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MAEIDTDGDGFISFQEFTDFGRANRGLLKDVAKIF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"543675\u2003Que\u2003a\u2003I-\u2003= oak\u2003trees\u2003(fragment)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003116)"},{"entry":"GVFTXESQETSVIAPAXLFKALFL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"543509\u2003Car\u2003b\u2003I-\u2003= hornbeam\u2003trees"},{"entry":"(fragment)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003117)"},{"entry":"GVFNYEAETPSVIPAARLFKSYVLDGDKLIPKVAPQAIXK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"543491\u2003Aln\u2003g\u2003I-\u2003= alder\u2003trees"},{"entry":"(fragment)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003118)"},{"entry":"GVFNYEAETPSVIPAARLFKAFILDGDKLLPKVAPEAVSSVENI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1204056\u2003"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003119)"},{"entry":"VQCMQVWPPLGLKKFETLSYLPPLSSEQLAKEVDYLLRKNLIPCLEFELE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"HGFVYREHNRSPGYYDGRYWTMWKLPMFGCNDSSQVLKELEECKKAYPSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FIRIIGFDDK"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0201"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"1168391\u2003Ara\u2003h\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003120)"},{"entry":"MRGRVSPLMLLLGILVLASVSATHAKSSPYQKKTENPCAQRCLQSCQQEP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DDLKQKACESRCTKLEYDPRCVYDPRGHTGTTNQRSPPGERTRGRQPGDY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DDDRRQPRREEGGRWGPAGPREREREEDWRQPREDWRRPSHQQPRKIRPE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GREGEQEWGTPGSHVREETSRNNPFYFPSRRFSTRYGNQNGRIRVLQRFD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QRSRQFQNLQNHRIVQIEAKPNTLVLPKHADADNILVIQQGQATVTVANG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NNRKSFNLDEGHALRIPSGFISYILNRHDNQNLRVAKISMPVNTPGQFED"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FFPASSRDQSSYLQGFSRNTLEAAFNAEFNEIRRVLLEENAGGEQEERGQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RRWSTRSSENNEGVIVKVSKEHVEELTKHAKSVSKKGSEEEGDITNPINL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"REGEPDLSNNFGKLFEVKPDKKNPQLQDLDMMLTCVEIKEGALMLPHFNS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KAMVIVVVNKGTGNLELVAVRKEQQQRGRREEEEDEDEEEEGSNREVRRY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TARLKEGDVFIMPAAHPVAINASSELHLLGFGINAENNHRIFLAGDKDNV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IDQIEKQAKDLAFPGSGEQVEKLIKNQKESHFVSARPQSQSQSPSSPEKE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SPEKEDQEEENQGGKGPLLSILKAFN"}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0202"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"113478\u2003Amb\u2003a\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003121)"},{"entry":"MGIKHCCYILYFTLALVTLLQPVRSAEDLQQILPSANETRSLTTCGTYNI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IDGCWRGKADWAENRKALADCAQGFAKGTIGGKDGDIYTVTSELDDDVAN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PKEGTLRFGAAQNRPLWIIFARDMVIRLDRELAINNDKTIDGRGAKVEII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NAGFAIYNVKNIIIHNIIMHDIVVNPGGLIKSHDGPPVPRKGSDGDAIGI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SGGSQIWIDHCSLSKAVDGLIDAKHGSTHFTVSNCLFTQHQYLLLFWDFD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ERGMLCTVAFNKFTDNVDQRMPNLRHGFVQVVNNNYERWGSYALGGSAGP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TILSQGNRFLASDIKKEVVGRYGESAMSESINWNWRSYMDVFENGAIFVP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SGVDPVLTPEQNAGMIPAEPGEAVLRLTSSAGVLSCQPGAPC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113479\u2003Amb\u2003a\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003122)"},{"entry":"MGIKHCCYILYFTLALVTLVQAGRLGEEVDILPSPNDTRRSLQGCEAHNI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IDKCWRCKPDWAENRQALGNCAQGFGKATHGGKWGDIYMVTSDQDDDVVN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PKEGTLRFGATQDRPLWIIFQRDMIIYLQQEMVVTSDKTIDGRGAKVELV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YGGITLMNVKNVIIHNIDIHDVRVLPGGRIKSNGGPAIPRHQSDGDAIHV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TGSSDIWIDHCTLSKSFDGLVDVNWGSTGVTISNCKFTHHEKAVLLGASD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"THFQDLKMHVTLAYNIFTNTVHERMPRCRFGFFQIVNNFYDRWDKYAIGG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSNPTILSQGNKFVAPDFIYKKNVCLRTGAQEPEWMTWNWRTQNDVLENG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AIFVASGSDPVLTAEQNAGMMQAEPGDMVPQLTMNAGVLTCSPGAPC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113477\u2003Amb\u2003a\u20031.3"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003123)"},{"entry":"MGIKQCCYILYFTLALVALLQPVRSAEGVGEILPSVNETRSLQACEALNI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IDKCWRGKADWENNRQALADCAQGFAKGTYGGKWGDVYTVTSNLDDDVAN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PKEGTLRFAAAQNRPLWIIFKNDMVINLNQELVVNSDKTIDGRGVKVEII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NGGLTLMNVKNIIIHNINIHDVKVLPGGMIKSNDGPPILRQASDGDTINV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AGSSQIWIDHCSLSKSFDGLVDVTLGSTHVTISNCKFTQQSKAILLGADD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"THVQDKGMLATVAFNMFTDNVDQRMPRCRFGFFQVVNNNYDRWGTYAIGG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSAPTILCQGNRFLAPDDQIKKNVLARTGTGAAESMAWNWRSDKDLLENG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AIFVTSGSDPVLTPVQSAGMIPAEPGEAAIKLTSSAGVFSCHPGAPC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113476\u2003Amb\u2003a\u20031.2"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003124)"},{"entry":"MGIKHCCYILYFTLALVTLLQPVRSAEDVEEFLPSANETRRSLKACEAHN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IIDKCWRCKADWANNRQALADCAQGFAKGTYGGKHGDVYTVTSDKDDDVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NPKEGTLRFAAAQNRPLWIIFKRNMVIHLNQELVVNSDKTIDGRGVKVNI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VNAGLTLMNVKNIIIHNINIHDIKVCPGGMIKSNDGPPILRQQSDGDAIN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VAGSSQIWIDHCSLSKASDGLLDITLGSSHVTVSNCKFTQHQFVLLLGAD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DTHYQDKGMLATVAFNMFTDHVDQRMPRCRFGFFQVVNNNYDRWGTYAIG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GSSAPTILSQGNRFFAPDDIIKKNVLARTGTGNAESMSWNWRTDRDLLEN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAIFLPSGSDPVLTPEQKAGMIPAEPGEAVLRLTSSAGVLSCHQGAPC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113475\u2003Amb\u2003a\u20031.1"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003125)"},{"entry":"MGIKHCCYILYFTLALVTLLQPVRSAEDLQEILPVNETRRLTTSGAYNII"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DGCWRGKADWAENRKALADCAQGFGKGTVGGKDGDIYTVTSELDDDVANP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KEGTLRFGAAQNRPLWIIFERDMVIRLDKEMVVNSDKTIDGRGAKVEIIN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AGFTLNGVKNVIIHNINMHDVKVNPGGLIKSNDGPAAPRAGSDGDAISIS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GSSQIWIDHCSLSKSVDGLVDAKLGTTRLTVSNSLFTQHQFVLLFGAGDE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NIEDRGMLATVAFNTFTDNVDQRMPRCRHGFFQVVNNNYDKWGSYAIGGS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ASPTILSQGNRFCAPDERSKKNVLGRHGEAAAESMKWNWRTNKDVLENGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IFVASGVDPVLTPEQSAGMIPAEPGESALSLTSSAGVLSCQPGAPC"}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0165","num":"0203"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"493634\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003IB\u2003precursor"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003126)"},{"entry":"MDSPCLVALLVFSFVIGSCFSDNPIDSCWRGDSNWAQNRMKLADCAVGFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSTMGGKGGDLYTVTNSDDDPVNPPGTLRYGATRDRPLWIIFSGNMNIKL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KMPMYIAGYKTFDGRGAQVYIGNGGPCVFIKRVSNVIIHGLYLYGCSTSV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LGNVLINESFGVEPVHPQDGDALTLRTATNIWIDHNSFSNSSDGLVDVTL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TSTGVTISNNLFFNHHKVMSLGHDDAYSDDKSMKVTVAFNQFGPNCGQRM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PRARYGLVHVANNNYDPWTIYAIGGSSNPTILSEGNSFTAPNESYKKQVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IRIGCKTSSSCSNWVWQSTQDVFYNGAYFVSSGKYEGGNIYTKKEAFNVE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NGNATPHLTQNAGVLTCSLSKRC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"493632\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003IA\u2003precursor"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003127)"},{"entry":"MDSPCLVALLVLSFVIGSCFSDNPIDSCWRGDSNWAQNRMKLADCAVGFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSTMGGKGGDLYTVTNSDDDPVNPAPGTLRYGATRDRPLWIIFSGNMNIK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LKMPMYIAGYKTFDGRGAQVYIGNGGPCVFIKRVSNVIIHGLHLYGCSTS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VLGNVLINESFGVEPVHPQDGDALTLRTATNIWIDHNSFSNSSDGLVDVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LSSTGVTISNNLFFNHHKVMLLGHDDAYSDDKSMKVTVAFNQFGPNCGQR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MPRARYGLVHVANNNYDPWTIYAIGGSSNPTILSEGNSFTAPNESYKKQV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TIRIGCKTSSSCSNWVWQSTQDVFYNGAYFVSSGKYEGGNIYTKKEAFNV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ENGNATPQLTKNAGVLTCSLSKRC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1076242\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003II\u2003precursor-Japanese\u2003cedar"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003128)"},{"entry":"MAMKLIAPMAFLAMQLIIMAAAEDQSAQIMLDSVVEKYLRSNRSLRKVEH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SRHDAINIFNVEKYGAVGDGKHDCTEAFSTAWQAACKNPSAMLLVPGSKK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FVVNNLFFNGPCQPHFTFKVDGIIAAYQNPASWKNNRIWLQFAKLTGFTL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MGKGVIDGQGKQWWAGQCKWVNGREICNDRDRPTAIKFDFSTGLIIQGLK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LMNSPEFHLVFGNCEGVKIIGISITAPRDSPNTDGIDIFASKNFHLQKNT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IGTGDDCVAIGTGSSNIVIEDLICGPGHGISIGSLGRENSRAEVSYVHVN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAKFIDTQNGLRIKTWQGGSGMASHIIYENVEMINSENPILINQFYCTSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SACQNQRSAVQIQDVTYKNIRGTSATAAAIQLKCSDSMPCKDIKLSDISL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KLTSGKIASCLNDNANGYFSGHVIPACKNLSPSAKRKESKSHKHPKTVMV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ENMRAYDKGNRTRILLGSRPPNCTNKCHGCSPCKAKLVIVHRIMPQEYYP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QRWICSCHGKIYHP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1076241\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003II\u2003protein-Japanese\u2003cedar"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003129)"},{"entry":"MAMKFIAPMAFVAMQLIIMAAAEDQSAQIMLDSDIEQYLRSNRSLRKVEH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SRHDAINIFNVEKYGAVGDGKHDCTEAFSTAWQAACKKPSAMLLVPGNKK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FVVNNLFFNGPCQPHFTFKVDGIIAAYQNPASWKNNRIWLQFAKLTGFTL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MGKGVIDGQGKQWWAGQCKWVNGREICNDRDRPTAIKFDFSTGLIIQGLK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LMNSPEFHLVFGNCEGVKIIGISITAPRDSPNTDGIDIFASKNFHLQKNT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IGTGDDCVAIGTGSSNIVIEDLICGPGHGISIGSLGRENSRAEVSYVHVN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GAKFIDTQNGLRIKTWQGGSGMASHIIYENVEMINSENPILINQFYCTSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SACQNQRSAVQIQDVTYKNIRGTSATAAAIQLKCSDSMPCKDIKLSDISL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KLTSGKIASCLNDNANGYFSGHVIPACKNLSPSAKRKESKSHKHPKTVMV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KNMGAYDKGNRTRILLGSRPPNCTNKCHGCSPCKAKLVIVHRIMPQEYYP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"QRWMCSRHGKIYHP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"541803\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003I\u2003precursor-Japanese\u2003cedar"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003130)"},{"entry":"MDSPCLVALLVLSFVIGSCFSDNPIDSCWRGDSNWAQNRMKLADCAVGFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSTMGGKGGDLYTVTNSDDDPVNPPGTLRYGATRDRPLWIIFSGNMNIKL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KMPMYIAGYKTFDGRGAQVYIGNGGPCVFIKRVSNVIIHGLHLYGCSTSV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LGNVLINESFGVEPVHPQDGDALTLRTATNIWIDHNSFSNSSDGLVDVTL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSTGVTISNNLFFNHHKVMLLGHDDAYSDDKSMKVTVAFNQFGPNCGQRM"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PRARYGLVHVANNNYDPWTIYAIGGSSNPTILSEGNSFTAPNESYKKQVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IRIGCKTSSSCSNWVWQSTQDVFYNGAYFVSSGKYEGGNIYTKKEAFNVE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NGNATPQLTKNAGVLTCSLSKRC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"541802\u2003Cry\u2003j\u2003I\u2003precursor-Japanese\u2003cedar"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20031)"},{"entry":"MDSPCLVALLVFSFVIGSCFSDNPIDSCWRGDSNWAQNRMKLADCAVGFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SSTMGGKGGDLYTVTNSDDDPVNPAPGTLRYGATRDRPLWIIFSGNMNIK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LKMPMYIAGYKTFDGRGAQVYIGNGGPCVFIKRVSNVIIHGLYLYGCSTS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VLGNVLINESFGVEPVHPQDGDALTLRTATNIWIDHNSFSNSSDGLVDVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LTSTGVTISNNLFFNHHKVMSLGHDDAYSDDKSMKVTVAFNQFGPNCGQR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"MPRARYGLVHVANNNYDPWTIYAIGGSSNPTILSEGNSFTAPNESYKKQV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TIRIGCKTSSSCSNWVWQSTQDVFYNGAYFVSSGKYEGGNIYTKKEAFNV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ENGNATPHLTQNAGVLTCSLSKRC"}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0204"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00020","num":"00020"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Can\u2003f\u20031"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003132)"},{"entry":"MKTLLLTIGFSLIAILQAQDTPALGKDTVAVSGKWYLKAMTADQEVPEKP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DSVTPMILKAQKGGNLEAKITMLTNGQCQNITVVLHKTSEPGKYTAYEGQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RVVFIQPSPVRDHYILYCEGELHGRQIRMAKLLGRDPEQSQEALEDFREF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SRAKGLNQEILELAQSETCSPGGQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Serum\u2003albumin\u2003fragment"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003133)"},{"entry":"EAYKSEIAHRYNDLGEEHFRGLVL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Serum\u2003albumin\u2003fragment"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003134)"},{"entry":"LSSAKERFKCASLQKFGDRAFKAWSVARLSQRFPKADFAEISKVVTDLTK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VHKECCHGDLLECADDRADLAKYMCENQDSISTKLKECCDKPVLEKSQCL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEVERDELPGDLPSLAADFVEDKEVCKNYQEAKDVFLGTFLYEYSRRHPE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YSVSLLLRLAKEYEATLEKCCATDDPPTCYAKVLDEFKPLVDEPQNLVKT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NCELFEKLGEYGFQNALLVRYTKKAPQVSTPTLVVEVSRKLGKVGTKCCK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KPESERMSCADDFLS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Can\u2003f\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003135)"},{"entry":"MQLLLLTVGLALICGLQAQEGNHEEPQGGLEELSGRWHSVALASNKSDLI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KPWGHFRVFIHSMSAKDGNLHGDILIPQDGQCEKVSLTAFKTATSNKFDL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EYWGHNDLYLAEVDPKSYLILYMINQYNDDTSLVAHLMVRDLSRQQDFLP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AFESVCEDIGLHKDQIVVLSDDDRCQGSRD"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0205"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00021","num":"00021"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"1575778\u2003Equ\u2003c1"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003136)"},{"entry":"MKLLLLCLGLILVCAQQEENSDVAIRNFDISKISGEWYSIFLASDVKEKI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EENGSMRVFVDVIRALDNSSLYAEYQTKVNGECTEFPMVFDKTEEDGVYS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LNYDGYNVFRISEFENDEHIILYLVNFDKDRPFQLFEFYAREPDVSPEIK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EEFVKIVQKRGIVKENIIDLTKIDRCFQLRGNGVAQA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"3121755\u2003Equ\u2003c\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003137)"},{"entry":"SQXPQSETDYSQLSGEWNTIYGAASNIXK"}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0206"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00022","num":"00022"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Eur\u2003m\u20031\u2003(variant)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003138)"},{"entry":"TYACSINSVSLPSELDLRSLRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVASTESAYLA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YRNMSLDLAEQELVDCASQNGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQQNGVVQEHYYPYVAR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EQSCHRPNAQRYGLKNYCQISPPDSNKIRQALTQTHTAVAVIIGIKDLNA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FRHYDGRTIMQHDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYGNTQGVDYWIVRNSWDTTWGDN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GYGYFAANINL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Eur\u2003m\u20031\u2003(variant)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003139)"},{"entry":"TYACSINSVSLPSELDLRSLRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVASTESAYLA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YRNMSLDLAEQELVDCASQNGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQQNGVVQEHYYPYVAR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EQSCHRPNAQRYGLKNYCQISPPDSNKIRQALTQTHTAVAVIIGIKDLNA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FRHYDGRTIMQHDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYGNTQGVDYWIVRNSWDTTWGDN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GYGYFAANINL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Eur\u2003m\u20031\u2003(variant)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003140)"},{"entry":"ETNACSINGNAPAEIDLRQMRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVAATESAYLA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YRNQSLDLAEQELVDCASQHGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQHNGVVQESYYRYVAR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"EQSCRRPNAQRFGISNYCQIYPPNANKIREALAQTHSAIAVIIGIKDLDA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FRHYDGRTIIQRDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYSNAQGVDYWIVRNSWDTNWGDN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GYGYFAANIDL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"Eur\u2003m\u20031\u2003(variant)"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003141)"},{"entry":"ETSACRINSVNVPSELDLRSLRTVTPIRMQGGCGSCWAFSGVAATESAYL"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AYRNTSLDLSEQELVDCASQHGCHGDTIPRGIEYIQQNGVVEERSYPYVA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"REQQCRRPNSQHYGISNYCQIYPPDVKQIREALTQTHTAIAVIIGIKDLR"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AFQHYDGRTIIQHDNGYQPNYHAVNIVGYGSTQGVDYWIVRNSWDTTWGD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SGYGYFQAGNNL"}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0207"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00023","num":"00023"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"113562\u2003POLLEN\u2003ALLERGEN\u2003POA\u2003P\u20039"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003142)"},{"entry":"MAVQKYTVALFLVALVVGPAASYAADLSYGAPATPAAPAAGYTPAAPAGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"APKATTDEQKMIEKINVGFKAAVAAAGGVPAANKYKTFVATFGAASNKAF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEALSTEPKGAAVDSSKAALTSKLDAAYKLAYKSAEGATPEAKYDDYVAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LSEALRIIAGTLEVHGVKPAAEEVKATPAGELQVIDKVDAAFKVAATAAN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYQSYKFIPALEAAVKQSYAATVAT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"APAVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSQAQKAAKPAAAATGTATAAVGAATGAATA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113561\u2003POA\u2003P\u20039"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003143)"},{"entry":"MAVHQYTVALFLAVALVAGPAASYAADVGYGAPATLATPATPAAPAAGYT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PAAPAGAAPKATTDEQKLIEKINAGFKAAVAAAAGVPAVDKYKTFVATFG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TASNKAFAEALSTEPKGAAAASSNAVLTSKLDAAYKLAYKSAEGATPEAK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHAVKPAGEEVKAIPAGELQVIDKVDAAFK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYQSYKFIPALEAAVKQS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YAATVATAPAVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSQAQKAAKPAAAVTATATGAVGA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ATGAVGAATGAATAAAGGYKTGAATPTAGGYKV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"113560\u2003POA\u2003P\u20039"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003144)"},{"entry":"MDKANGAYKTALKAASAVAPAEKFPVFQATFDKNLKEGLSGPDAVGFAKK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LDAFIQTSYLSTKAAEPKEKFDLFVLSLTEVLRFMAGAVKAPPASKFPAK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PAPKVAAYTPAAPAGAAPKATTDEQKLIEKINVGFKAAVAAAAGVPAASK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YKTFVATFGAASNKAFAEALSTEPKGAAVASSKAVLTSKLDAAYKLAYKS"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"AEGATPEAKYDAYVATLSEALRIIAGTLEVHGVKPAAEEVKAIPAGELQV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"IDKVDAAFKVAATAANAAPANDKFTVFEAAFNDAIKASTGGAYQSYKFIP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ALEAAVKQSYAATVATAPAVKYTVFETALKKAITAMSQAQKAAKPAAAVT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GTATSAVGAATGAATAAAGGYKV"}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0208"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00024","num":"00024"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"2833325\u2003Cr\u2003p1"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003145)"},{"entry":"MKTALVFAAVVAFVAARFPDHKDYKQLADKQFLAKQRDVLRLFHRVHQHN"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"ILNDQVEVGIPMTSKQTSATTVPPSGEAVHGVLQEGHARPRGEPFSVNYE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"KHREQAIMLYDLLYFANDYDTFYKTACWARDRVNEGMFMYSFSIAVFHRD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DMQGVMLPPPYEVYPYLFVDHDVIHMAQKYWMKNAGSGEHHSHVIPVNFT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LRTQDHLLAYFTSDVNLNAFNTYYRYYYPSWYNTTLYGHNIDRRGEQFYY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TYKQIYARYFLERLSNDLPDVYPFYYSKPVKSAYNPNLRYHNGEEMPVRP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNMYVTNFDLYYIADIKNYEKRVEDAIDFGYAFDEHMKPHSLYHDVHGME"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YLADMIEGNMDSPNFYFYGSIYHMYHSMIGHIVDPYHKMGLAPSLEHPET"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VLRDPVFYQLWKRVDHLFQKYKNRLPRYTHDELAFEGVKVENVDVGKLYT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YFEQYDMSLDMAVYVNNVDQISNVDVQLAVRLNHKPFTYNIEVSSDKAQD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"VYVAVFLGPKYDYLGREYDLNDRRHYFVEMDRFPYHVGAGKTVIERNSHD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SNIIAPERDSYRTFYKKVQEAYEGKSQYYVDKGHNYCGYPENLLIPKGKK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GGQAYTFYVIVTPYVKQDEHDFEPYNYKAFSYCGVGSERKYPDNKPLGYP"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FDRKTYSNDFYTPNMYFKDVIIFHKKYDEVGVQGH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"2231297\u2003Cr\u2003p2"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003146)"},{"entry":"INEIHSIIGLPPFVPPSRRHARRGVGINGLIDDVIAILPVDELKALFQEK"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LETSPDFKALYDAIRSPEFQSIISTLNAMQRSEHHQNLRDKGVDVDHFIQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LIRALFGLSRAARNLQDDLNDFLHSLEPISPRHRHGLPRQRRRSARVSAY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LHADDFHKIITTIEALPEFANFYNFLKEHGLDVVDYINEIHSIIGLPPFV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PPSRRHARRGVGINGLIDDVIAILPVDELKALFQEKLETSPDFKALYDAI"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RSPEFQSIISTLNAMPEYQELLQNLRDKGVDVDHFIRVDQGTLRTLSSGQ"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"RNLQDDLNDFLALIPTDQILAIAMDYLANDAEVQELVAYLQSDDFHKIIT"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TIEALPEFANFYNFLKEHGLDVVDYINEIHSIIGLPPFVPPSQRHARRGV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"GINGLIDDVIAILPVDELKALFQEKLETSPDFKALYDAIDLRSSRA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"11703445\u2003Bla\u2003g\u20032"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003147)"},{"entry":"MIGLKLVTVLFAVATITHAAELQRVPLYKLVHVFINTQYAGITKIGNQNF"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LTVFDSTSCNVVVASQECVGGACVCPNLQKYEKLKPKYISDGNVQVKFFD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"TGSAVGRGIEDSLTISNLTTSQQDIVLADELSQEVCILSADVVVGIAAPG"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"CPNALKGKTVLENFVEENLIAPVFSIHHARFQDGEHFGEIIFGGSDWKYV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"DGEFTYVPLVGDDSWKFRLDGVKIGDTTVAPAGTQAIIDTSKAIIVGPKA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YVNPINEAIGCVVEKTTTRRICKLDCSKIPSLPDVTFVINGRNFNISSQY"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YIQQNGNLCYSGFQPCGHSDHFFIGDFFVDHYYSEFNWENKTMGFGRSVE"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"SV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"1705483\u2003Bla\u2003g\u20034"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003148)"},{"entry":"AVLALCATDTLANEDCFRHESLVPNLDYERFRGSWIIAAGTSEALTQYKC"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"WIDRFSYDDALVSKYTDSQGKNRTTIRGRTKFEGNKFTIDYNDKGKAFSA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"PYSVLATDYENYAIVEGCPAAANGHVIYVQIRFSVRRFHPKLGDKEMIQH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"YTLDQVNQHKKAIEEDLKHFNLKYEDLHSTCH"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"2326190\u2003Bla\u2003g\u20035"},{"entry":"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u2003149)"},{"entry":"YKLTYCPVKALGEPIRFLLSYGEKDFEDYRFQEGDWPNLKPSMPFGKTPV"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"LEIDGKQTHQSVAISRYLGKQFGLSGKDDWENLEIDMIVDTISDFRAAIA"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"NYHYDADENSKQKKWDPLKKETIPYYTKKFDEVVKANGGYLAAGKLTWAD"},{"entry":{}},{"entry":"FYFVAILDYLNHMAKEDLVANQPNLKALREKVLGLPAIKAWVAKRPPTDL"}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":"Alternaria "},"Once formulated the compositions of the invention can be delivered to a subject in vivo using a variety of known routes and techniques. For example, a composition can be provided as an injectable solution, suspension or emulsion and administered via parenteral, subcutaneous, epicutaneous, epidermal, intradermal, intramuscular, intraarterial, intraperitoneal, intravenous injection using a conventional needle and syringe, or using a liquid jet injection system. Compositions can also be administered topically to skin or mucosal tissue, such as nasally, intratracheally, intestinal, rectally or vaginally, or provided as a finely divided spray suitable for respiratory or pulmonary administration. Other modes of administration include oral administration, suppositories, sublingual administration, and active or passive transdermal delivery techniques.","Where a peptide of the invention is to be administered, it is preferred to administer the peptide to a site in the body where it will have the ability to contact suitable antigen presenting cells, and where it, or they, will have the opportunity to contact T cells of the individual. Where an APC is to be administered, it is preferred to administer the APC to a site in the body where it will have the ability to contact, and activate, suitable T cells of the individual.","Delivery Regimes","Administration of the peptides\/polynucleotides\/cells (such as the composition containing a plurality of peptides) may be by any suitable method as described above. Suitable amounts of the peptide may be determined empirically, but typically are in the range given below. A single administration of each peptide may be sufficient to have a beneficial effect for the patient, but it will be appreciated that it may be beneficial if the peptide is administered more than once, in which case typical administration regimes may be, for example, once or twice a week for 2-4 weeks every 6 months, or once a day for a week every four to six months. As will be appreciated, each peptide or polynucleotide, or combination of peptides and\/or polynucleotides may be administered to a patient singly or in combination.","Dosages for administration will depend upon a number of factors including the nature of the composition, the route of administration and the schedule and timing of the administration regime. Suitable doses of a molecule of the invention may be in the order of up to 15 \u03bcg, up to 20 \u03bcg, up to 25 \u03bcg, up to 30 \u03bcg, up to 50 \u03bcg, up to 100 \u03bcg, up to 500 \u03bcg or more per administration. Suitable doses may be less than 15 \u03bcg, but at least 1 ng, or at least 2 ng, or at least 5 ng, or at least 50 ng, or least 100 ng, or at least 500 ng, or at least 1 \u03bcg, or at least 10 \u03bcg. For some molecules of the invention, the dose used may be higher, for example, up to 1 mg, up to 2 mg, up to 3 mg, up to 4 mg, up to 5 mg or higher. Such doses may be provided in a liquid formulation, at a concentration suitable to allow an appropriate volume for administration by the selected route.","Kits","The invention also relates to a combination of components described herein suitable for use in a treatment of the invention which are packaged in the form of a kit in a container. Such kits may comprise a series of components to allow for a treatment of the invention. For example, a kit may comprise one or more different peptides, polynucleotides and\/or cells of the invention, or one or more peptides, polynucleotides or cells of the invention and one or more additional therapeutic agents suitable for simultaneous administration, or for sequential or separate administration. The kit may optionally contain other suitable reagent(s) or instructions and the like.","The invention is illustrated by the following Examples:","The regions of Amb a 1 described below were identified as potentially comprising one or more T cell epitopes:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0216"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00025","num":"00025"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE\u20032"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"RESIDUES\u2003IN",{}]},{"entry":["REGION\u2003OF","AMB\u2003A\u20031",{}]},{"entry":["INTEREST","(isoform\u20031.3)","SEQUENCE"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["A","178-189","GMIKSNDGPPIL"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200332)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["B","202-213","GSSQIWIDHCSLSKS"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20035)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["C","343-354","DKDLLENGAIFVTSGSDPVLTPVQ"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200333)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["D","364-375","PVQSAGMIPAEPGEA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200334)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["E","103-114","EGTLRFAAAQNRPLW"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200335)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["F","130-141","QELVVNSDKTIDGRGVKVEII"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200336)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["G","376-387","GEAAIKLTSSAGVFSCHP"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200337)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["H","226-237","GSTHVTISNCKF"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200322)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["I","280-297","FGFFQVVNNNYDRWGTYA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200338)"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["J","38-48","ETRSLQACEALN"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200339)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The sequences provided for regions G, I and J in the priority application, GB 0815258.3 are as follows: GEAAIKLTSSAGVLSCRP (Region G, SEQ ID NO: 40), HGFFQVVNNNYDRGTYA (Region I, SEQ ID NO: 41) and ETRRLTTSGAYN (Region J, SEQ ID NO: 42). These sequences have been corrected in Table 2 such that they correspond to the relevant regions from Amb a 1 isoform 1.3 full length sequence as provided below.","The regions shown in Table 2 were then further analysed to find which of them were highly conserved between the 4 different Amb a1 isoforms as shown below (1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4). For the below sequences, the following text styles are used to indicate regions of interest: Region A, Region B, Region C, Region D, Region E, Region F, Region G, Region H, Region I, Region J,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0219"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"135.97mm","wi":"74.76mm","file":"US08491910-20130723-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"The following peptides were considered to be highly conserved and therefore taken forward for further testing:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0221"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00026","num":"00026"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE\u20033"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Derived\u2003from",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"region\u2003of",{},{}]},{"entry":["Peptide","interest","Sequence","SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RGW01","A","GMIKSNDGPPI","1"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW01A","A","GLIKSHDGPPV","2"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW01B","A","GLIKSNDGPAA","3"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW02","B","GSSQIWIDHSSLSKS","4"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW02A","B","GSSQIWIDHCSLSKS","5"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW02B","B","GGSQIWIDHCSLSKA","6"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW03","C","KDLLENGAIFVTSG","7"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW03A","C","DVFENGAIFVPSG","8"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW03B","C","RDLLENGAIFLPSG","9"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW04","D","KAGMIPAEPGEA","10"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW4A","D","SAGMIPAEPGEA","11"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW05","E","KEGTLRFAAAQNRP","12"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW05A","E","KEGTLRFGAAQNRP","13"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW06","F","VVNSDKTIDGRGVKVE","14"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW06A","F","AINNDKTIDGRGAKVE","15"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW07","G","GEAAIKLTSSAGVLS","16"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW07A","G","GEAVLRLTSSAGVLS","17"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW07B","G","GESALSLTSSAGVLS","18"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW07C","G","KGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSK","19"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW07D","G","KGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSKK","20"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW08","H","GSTHVTISNSKF","21"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW08A","H","GSTHVTISNCKF","22"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW08B","H","GSTHFTVSNCLF","23"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW08C","H","GSTHFTVSNSLF","24"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW08D","H","GTTRLTVSNSLF","25"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW09","I","ETRRSLKTSGAYN","26"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW10","I","FGFFQVVNNNYD","27"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW10A","I","HGFFQVVNNNYD","28"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW11","I","VNNNYDRWGTYA","29"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW11A","I","VNNNYDKWGSYA","30"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW11B","I","VNNNYERWGSYA","31"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As will be apparent, the sequences above are not necessarily identical to the native sequences of the regions of interest. In particular, the peptides of the invention may be engineered to improve solubility and\/or reduce dimer formation and\/or reduce the likelihood of IgE cross-linking relative to the native sequences. The following table (Table 4) provides specific illustrations of the above principles as applied by the inventors to produce the peptides of Table 3 (SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 31).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0185","num":"0223"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00027","num":"00027"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE\u20034"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Sequence","Identificat","pI","GRAVY","Comments"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["GMIKSNDGPPIL","Region\u2003A","5.84","\u22120.083",{}]},{"entry":["(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200332)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["GMIKSNDGPPI","RGW01","5.84","\u22120.436","Engineered\u2003peptide\u2003has"]},{"entry":[{},"(SEQ\u2003ID:\u20031)",{},{},"lower\u2003GRAVY\u2003score:\u2003more"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"soluble"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["GSSQIWIDHCSLSKS","Region\u2003B","6.73","\u22120.273",{}]},{"entry":["(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u20035)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["GSSQIWIDHSLSKS","RGW02","6.73","\u22120.493","Engineered\u2003peptide\u2003has\u2003ser"]},{"entry":[{},"(SEQ\u2003ID:\u20034)",{},{},"in\u2003place\u2003of\u2003cys\u2003(avoids"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"dimer\u2003formation)\u2003and\u2003has"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"lower\u2003GRAVY\u2003score:\u2003more"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"soluble"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["DKDLLENGAIFVTSGSDPVL","Region\u2003C",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["TPVQ",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200333)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RDLLENGAIFLPSG","RGW03B",{},{},"Engineered\u2003peptide"]},{"entry":[{},"(SEQ\u2003ID:\u20039)",{},{},"significantly\u2003shorter:\u2003avoids"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"risk\u2003of\u2003histamine\u2003release\u2003via"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"cross\u2003linking\u2003IgE"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["AIKLTSSAGVFSCHP","Region\u2003G",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200337)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["GEAAIKLTSSAGVLS","RGW07","6.00","0.69","Engineered\u2003peptide\u2003lacks"]},{"entry":[{},"(SEQ\u2003ID:\u200316)",{},{},"cys\u2003in\u2003last\u2003three\u2003residues\u2003(to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"prevent\u2003dimer\u2003formation)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"and\u2003has\u2003L\u2003replacing\u2003F\u2003as"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"occurs\u2003in\u20031.1,\u20031.2\u2003and\u20031.4"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Rows highlighted in grey in the above table represent the native sequence of a region. The peptides modified according to the invention are shown beneath each native sequence. Residues in bold and underlined represent additions to or substitutions of the native sequence.","Cytokine Assays and Selection of Preferred Combinations","Cytokine secretion profiles from PBMC's of 50 individuals were analysed in response to the peptide stimulation using the peptides of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. Supernatants from the cytokine release assay were tested for the presence of IL-13 and IFN-gamma, using a multiplex bead array assay.","A typical cytokine release assay requires 40\u00d710PBMC's per subject. In more detail, 250 \u03bcl of a 200 \u03bcg\/ml solution of the appropriate antigen or peptide concentration is distributed into the appropriate wells of 48 well plates. Plates are the incubated in a humidified 5% CO2 incubator at 37\u00b0 C. for a maximum of 4 hours. 250 \u03bcl of a 5\u00d710cell\/ml PBMC suspension is then added to each well and the plates returned to the incubator for 5 days. Following stimulation, samples of culture supernatant are harvested for testing by multiplex bead assay according to standard protocols. The data was analysed for subjects having a response to Interferon gamma or IL-13>100 pg\/ml and the peptides were prioritised on the basis of the % responder rate as shown below in Table 5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0227"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00028","num":"00028"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 5"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Number of",{}]},{"entry":[{},"responders >100 pg\/ml","% responders"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RGW 01","34","68"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 01A","25","50"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 03","25","50"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 01B","24","48"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 04","23","46"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 03A","22","44"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 03B","22","44"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 10","21","42"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 04A","20","40"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 10A","20","40"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 05","19","38"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 02","18","36"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 09","18","36"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 06","17","34"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 06A","17","34"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 11A","17","34"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 05A","16","32"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 08B","10","20"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 11B","10","20"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 02B","9","18"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 07A","9","18"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 11","8","16"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 08A","6","12"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 08D","6","12"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 02A","5","10"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 07B","5","10"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 08","4","8"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 07","2","4"]},{"entry":[{},"RGW 08C","2","4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Based on the above a preferred combination of the invention was selected to contain:","RGW01 (potentially substituted with RGW01A or RGW01B); and one of RGW03, RGW03A or RGW03B; and one of RGW04 or RGW04A.","From the remaining peptides, the next most potent are RGW02, RGW09, RGW06, RGW06A, RGW10 or RGW10A, RGW05 or RGW05A. A preferred peptide combination may typically comprise at least one additional peptide selected from this group.","Since solubility is a key criterion for peptides to be administered to patients, further in vitro solubility testing was performed to evaluate the solubility of peptides in an acidic environment (pH 2.97 0.1 mM HC1, 0.5% (w\/v), 1-thioglycerol (ca. 46 mM), 230 mM trehalose). For example, RGW03B was found to have a solubility of 3.85 mg\/ml compared to <0.62 mg\/ml for RGW03. Accordingly, the inventors have determined that RGW03B is preferred over RGW03.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0231"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"A further cytokine assay was performed to evaluate IL-10 release from the same panel of individuals, induced by the peptides of SEQ ID NOS. 1 to 31. Analysis of IL-10 response shows that RGW07 and RGW07B induce significant quantities of IL-10 (). RGW07 on its own induced IL-10 in 49\/50 individuals. A preferred peptide combination may therefore typically comprise at least one additional peptide selected from the RGW07 group. A combined analysis of the positive IFNgamma or IL-13 responses for the peptides represented in the mixture of 6 peptides identified in  (RGW01+RGW03B+RGW04A+RGW02+RGW05+RGW06A) together with RGW07 gave a positive IFNgamma or IL-13 response in 49\/50 subjects. Thus, this peptide combination effectively covers the whole study population, and complete coverage would be expected on use of improved RGW07 solubility variants (see below). Peptide combinations comprising RGW01+RGW03B+RGW04A+RGW02+RGW05+RGW06A) or variants thereof together with RGW07 or variants thereof also have the advantage of providing for a positive IL-10 response (see below and ).","Solubility testing showed that RGW07 had poor solubility in an acidic environment and so additional lysine residues were added to RGW07 (indicated in Table 6). The modified peptides were tested for solubility and their ability to induce IL-10 from PBMC in the presence of the mixture of peptides identified in  (RGW01+RGW03B+RGW04A+RGW02+RGW05+RGW06A). Controls included the peptide mixture with no RGW07 variant and with whole Amb a 1 allergen. The results are shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0234"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00029","num":"00029"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1","tabstyle":"monospace"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE\u20036"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Solubility\u2003of\u2003RGW07\u2003and\u2003variants"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"Residues","Isoelec-",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"in\u2003Amb\u2003a","tric",{},"Solubility"]},{"entry":["Peptide","Sequence","1","point\u2003(pI)","GRAVY","mg\/ml"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RGW","GEAAIKLTSSAGVLS","\u2003376-390","6.00","0.69","0.7"]},{"entry":["07","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200316)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW",{"b":["K","K"]},"K376-","9.70","0.15","1.55"]},{"entry":["07C","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200319)","390K",{},{},{}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["RGW",{"b":["K","KK"]},"K376-","10.00","\u22120.07","4.26"]},{"entry":["07D","(SEQ\u2003ID\u2003NO:\u200320)","390KK"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Based on these analyses, RGW07D was found to be preferred both for solubility and for its ability to induce IL-10 in the presence of the other six peptides.","The purpose of this assay was to identify individual peptides that are capable of activating blood basophils (as a surrogate for tissue mast cells) resulting in histamine release that may result in allergic reactions during therapy. Peptides or combinations of peptides that induce histamine release frequently may be considered unsuitable for inclusion in the peptide vaccine.","Histamine release requires the crosslinking of adjacent specific IgE molecules on the surface of the basophil. The peptides being evaluated were small (11 to 18 amino acids in length) and should not, therefore, possess significant tertiary structure that would enable them to retain the conformation of an IgE-binding epitope of the whole molecule. Furthermore, peptide monomers in solution, even if they are bound by IgE, should not be able to cros slink adjacent IgE molecules.","Histamine release from fresh peripheral whole blood from ragweed allergic subjects was evaluated. Peripheral blood basophils were used as a surrogate for tissue mast cells which were not practical to assay. Blood was incubated in vitro with individual peptides identified in Example 1 (RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, RGW07 AND RGW07D). Additionally, responses to preferred mixtures of 7 peptides identified in Example 1 were analysed. The tested preferred mixtures of 7 peptides consisted of i) RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, RGW07 and ii) RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, and RGW07D.","Histamine release in response to whole ragweed allergen extract was measured in each subject to confirm basophil sensitisation. A positive control, representing total histamine release, generated by freeze\/thawing the cells twice, was included in each assay. A negative control for spontaneous histamine release was generated by incubating cells in buffer only.","The assay was performed using the Immunotech Histamine Release Immunoassay kit according to the manufacturer's instructions. Following the in vitro challenge of blood basophils with peptides, peptide mixes, whole allergen or buffer in microtitre plate wells, supernatants were removed and the histamine in the samples converted to acyl histamine. Acylated samples were tested by a competitive acyl histamine ELISA.","Peptides were assayed for their ability to induce histamine release over a 5 log 10 range (1 to 10,000 ng\/ml). The concentration range assayed was selected based on theoretical in vivo doses of peptide that may be achieved during therapy. For example, a 31 \u03bcg dose (approximately 3 nmol\/peptide equivalent) of each peptide entering a blood volume of 5 liters, would result in a blood concentration of 6 ng\/ml, at the lower end of the histamine release assay dose range. Whole ragweed allergen extract was used over a slightly higher concentration range (10 to 100,000 ng\/ml).","Single measurements were performed for each dilution. After completion of the ELISA, individual histamine levels were determined by interpolation from the standard curve generated in the ELISA assay. Results from samples were adjusted to allow for dilution. Where two or more consecutive dilutions of a peptide\/allergen preparation elicited >15% of the total histamine release seen in the freeze thawed positive control (>15% of positive control), or where a single value of >15% of positive control was achieved at the highest concentration tested (10 \u03bcg\/mL for peptides), this was considered a \u201cpositive histamine release\u201d.","A total of 49 histamine release assays were completed during the study. Of these 6 assays were rejected, due to unacceptably high levels (>15% of positive control) of spontaneous release in the medium plus buffer negative control wells. Therefore a total of 43 subjects were included in the analysis. 20 of these subjects were tested with the RGW07D peptide and the mix containing it. The study findings are summarised in Table 7.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0244"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00030","num":"00030"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"Mean histamine",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Subjects with","release of 43 or 20","Maximum histamine"]},{"entry":[{},"histamine","subjects as a % of","release (% of"]},{"entry":["Peptide or","release >15% of","positive control","positive control"]},{"entry":["combination","positive control","at 10 \u03bcg\/mL","at 10 \u03bcg\/mL)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u20021) RGW 01","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20022) RGW 03B","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20023) RGW 04A","0\/43","0%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20024) RGW 05","0\/43","0%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20025) RGW 02","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20026) RGW 06A","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20027) RGW 07","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":["\u20028) Peptides 1-6 and RGW07 in","0\/43","1%","0%"]},{"entry":"combination"},{"entry":["v9) RGW 07D","0\/20","3%","0%"]},{"entry":["10) Peptides 1-6 and RGW07D in","\u20022\/20*","5%","20%\u2002"]},{"entry":"combination"},{"entry":["Ragweed allergen control","28\/43\u2002","25%\u2002","78%\u2002"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"*Peptides 1-6 and RGW07D in combination were >15% in two subjects only at 10 \u03bcg\/ml."}]}}}}},"Results are shown for the highest dose of peptides tested in the assay (10 \u03bcg\/ml). The ragweed allergen control induced significant histamine release in 65% of the 43 subjects. Even at the lowest concentration of 10 ng\/ml, the whole allergen extract induced significant histamine release in 22\/43 (51%) of individuals with a mean release for the 43 subjects of 30% of positive control. The crude whole ragweed extract contains approximately 0.5% of major allergen Amb a1, emphasizing the exquisite sensitivity of the in vitro basophil assay for assessing the safety of the peptides which at 10 ug\/ml are present at >10,000 fold excess over Amb a1 in the crude extract at 10 ng\/ml.","The data shows that the eight individual peptides do not elicit significant histamine release from the basophils of ragweed allergic individuals when compared to whole allergen. A combination of peptides RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, RGW07 also failed to elicit significant histamine release in the 43 subjects.","The combination of peptides RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, and RGW07D gave a weak positive response in 2 individuals with values of 16% and 20% of positive control at the highest peptide concentration of 10 \u03bcg\/mL. The % release values at the four lower concentrations tested were <15%, i.e. negative. Given the large excess of peptide dose tested in this assay compared to likely blood concentrations of the peptides following clinical dosing\u2014the highest concentration tested represents >1000-fold excess over the expected blood concentrations\u2014it is not anticipated that this peptide combination will cause significant histamine release either by IgE-mediated or direct peptide-mediated basophil or mast cell activation and degranulation.","A preferred mixture of 7 peptides consisting of peptides RGW01, RGW02, RGW03B, RGW04A, RGW05, RGW06A, and RGW07D is tested in a randomised, placebo-controlled, blind clinical trial. The efficacy of this mixture in reducing allergic symptoms is evaluated. The study design of the clinical trial is in accordance with good clinical practice guidelines.","Ragweed-allergic subjects are screened to identify late phase skin response (LPSR) and conjunctival provocation test (CPT) scores following challenge with ragweed allergen. Details of LPSR and CPT assays are provided below. Titrations are performed in order to identify the minimally effective concentrations of whole allergen for generation of an appropriate LPSR and CPT score. Blood samples are taken to evaluate levels of ragweed-specific IgE.","Baseline skin and conjunctival responses to ragweed allergen for all subjects are established using a Baseline Challenge which takes place between 1 to 4 weeks prior to study medication administration. An intradermal injection of ragweed allergen at the minimally effective concentration identified in screening is administered into the volar surface of a selected forearm. Subjects are assessed to ensure that they experience a early phase skin response (EPSR), a CPT and a Late-Phase Skin Response (LPSR) to whole ragweed allergen, and the magnitude of the baseline reaction is recorded as follows:","15 minutes (\u00b13 minutes) after the injection, the outline of any EPSR is drawn onto the skin with a ballpoint pen. The longest and orthogonal diameters are measured and recorded for each response, and the area of the response in each arm is calculated.","At a minimum of 30 minutes after the injection, ragweed allergen at the minimally effective concentration identified in screening is instilled into a selected eye. Subject rated itching and observer rated redness and watering is then scored after minutes (\u00b12 minutes). The scoring system is shown in Table 8 below.","Eight hours (\u00b110 minutes) after each injection the outline of any late-phase response is drawn onto the skin with a ballpoint pen. The longest and orthogonal diameters are measured and recorded for each response, and the area of the response in each arm is calculated.","Subjects who produce a suitable baseline reaction are assigned to dosing groups, randomised and entered into the Treatment Phase.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0217","num":"0255"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00031","num":"00031"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 8"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Symptom","Score"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Redness of","0 = none"]},{"entry":[{},"conjunctiva","1 = slight (just perceptible)"]},{"entry":[{},"(observer rated)","2 = moderate (noticeable redness)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3 = severe (intense angry redness)"]},{"entry":[{},"Watering","0 = none"]},{"entry":[{},"(observer rated)","1 = slight (just perceptible)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2 = moderate (occasional tearing)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3 = severe (tears running down cheek)"]},{"entry":[{},"Itching","0 = none"]},{"entry":[{},"(self-evaluated)","1 = slight (occasional tingling sensation)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2 = moderate (noticeable itching but no"]},{"entry":[{},{},"need to rub eye)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3 = severe (itching with need to rub eye)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"4 = unbearable (unbearable itching with a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"compulsive desire to rub eye)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The Treatment Phase consists of a period of 6 weeks for each subject. During this period one group of subjects receive a single intradermal injection of either the preferred mixture (0.03, 0.3, 3, 1, 12 nmol of each peptide per dose) or diluent placebo at Treatment Phase Visit 1 on day one. Intradermal injections are made into the flexor surface of the selected forearm. A repeat administration is then performed at Treatment Phase Visits 2, 3 and 4, each two weeks apart (14\u00b12 days). A cohort of 10 subjects receives treatment at each dose level (8 receive the preferred mixture and 2 placebo). The first cohort receives 0.03 nmol of each peptide in the mixture and each subsequent cohort in the group receives the next higher dose level.","19 to 28 weeks after the beginning of treatment subjects have their skin and conjunctival responses to whole allergen retested in a post-treatment challenge (PTC). Skin responses to ragweed allergen are assessed by measurement of the EPSR and LPSR as described above. The average area of response is calculated as described above. Conjunctival responses to ragweed allergen are assessed by measurement of the CPT as described above. Blood samples are taken for measurement of ragweed specific IgE.","The average EPSR area after treatment is compared to the baseline EPSR area for each subject. The overall change in EPSR area for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated. The average LPSR area after treatment is compared to the baseline LPSR area for each subject. The overall change in LPSR area for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated. The CPT score after treatment is compared to the baseline CPT score for each subject. The overall change in CPT score for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated.","I. A composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polypeptides, wherein the polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following:","(i) a polypeptide of any of SEQ ID NO's. 1 to 31; or","(ii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of:\n\n","(iii) a variant of a polypeptide according to (i), wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either:\n\n","which sequence is capable of tolerising an individual to any of the sequences of (i) and has a length of at least 9 amino acids, and wherein said homologue has at least 65% homology to any 9 contiguous amino acids in any of the sequences of (i).","II. The composition according to item I, wherein the composition:","a) is capable of tolerising at least 50% or at least 60% of a panel of ragweed allergic individuals in the population; and\/or","b) comprises at least three polypeptides selected from item I(i) or variants thereof as defined in item I(ii) or I(iii), and\/or","c) comprises at least one further polypeptide up to a total of thirteen unique\/different polypeptides, wherein the further polypeptides:\n\n","d) comprises up to a maximum of thirteen polypeptides.","III. The composition according to item I or II, comprising at least one polypeptide according to item II(c) which is 9 to 20 or 13 to 17 amino acids in length and\/or wherein said polypeptide has at least 70% sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 31.","IV. A composition according to any one of the preceding items, comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2 or 3) or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii).","V. A composition according to item IV, wherein the at least one polypeptide is the polypeptide RGW01, or a variant thereof.","VI. A composition according to item IV or V, comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW03B, RGW03A or RGW03 (SEQ ID NOS: 9, 8 or 7), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii);","VII. A composition according to item VI wherein the at least one polypeptide is the polypeptide RGW03B, or a variant thereof.","VIII. A composition according to any one of items IV to VII, comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW04 or RGW04A (SEQ ID NOS: 10 or 11), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii).","IX. A composition according to any one of items IV to VIII, comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW02, RGW09, RGW06, RGW06A, RGW10 or RGW10A, RGW05 or RGW05A (SEQ ID NOS: 4, 26, 14, 15, 27, 12 or 13), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii).","X. A composition according to any one of items IV to IX, comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW07, RGW07C or RGW07D (SEQ ID NOS: 16, 19 or 20), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii).","XI. A composition according to item X, wherein the at least one polypeptide is RGW07D (SEQ ID NO: 20).","XII. A composition according to any one of the preceding items consisting of:","a) at least one of the polypeptides of RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2 or 3), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii); and","b) at least one of the polypeptides of RGW03B, RGW03A or RGW03 (SEQ ID NOS: 9, 8 or 7), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii); and","c) at least one of the polypeptides of RGW04 or RGW04A (SEQ ID NOS: 10 or 11), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii); and optionally","d) at least one of the polypeptides of RGW02, RGW09, RGW06, RGW06A, RGW10 or RGW10A, RGW05 or RGW05A (SEQ ID NOS: 4, 26, 14, 15, 27, 12 or 13), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii); and optionally","e) at least one of the polypeptides of RGW07, RGW07C or RGW07D (SEQ ID NOS: 16, 19 or 20), or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii).","XIII. The composition according to any one of the preceding items, wherein one or more of the polypeptides have one or more modifications selected from the following:","(i) N terminal acetylation;","(ii) C terminal amidation;","(iii) one or more hydrogen on the side chain amines of Arginine and\/or Lysine replaced with a methylene group;","(iv) glycosylation; and","(v) phosphorylation.","XIV. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein at least one of the peptides has been engineered to be soluble such that it comprises:","i) N terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope: one to six contiguous amino acids corresponding to the two to six contiguous amino acids immediately N terminal to said residues in the sequence of the protein from which the peptide derives; and\/or","ii) C terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope: one to six contiguous amino acids corresponding to the one to six contiguous amino acids immediately C terminal to the said residues in the sequence of the protein from which the peptide derives; or","iii) N and\/or C terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope, at least one amino acid selected from arginine, lysine, histidine, glutamate and aspartate,","wherein the polypeptide has a solubility of at least 3.5 mg\/ml and the T cell epitope has a solubility of less than 3.5 mg\/ml.","XV. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein at least one of the peptides has been engineered to be soluble such that additionally:","i) any cysteine residues in the native sequence of the peptide are replaced with serine or 2-aminobutyric acid; and\/or","ii) any hydrophobic residues in the up to three amino acids at the N and\/or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide, which are not comprised in a T cell epitope, are deleted; and\/or","iii) any two consecutive amino acids comprising the sequence Asp-Gly in the up to four amino acids at the N and\/or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide, which are not comprised in a T cell epitope, are deleted.","XVI. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein each polypeptide has a concentration in the range of 0.03 to 200 nmol\/ml, 0.3 to 200 nmol\/ml or 30 to 120 nmol\/ml.","XVII. A composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polynucleotide sequences which when expressed cause the production of a composition as defined in any one of items I to XVI.","XVIII. The composition according to item XVII, wherein each polynucleotide sequence capable of expressing a different polypeptide is present in the same or different polynucleotide vectors.","XIX. A vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polynucleotide sequences which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I and optionally one or more further polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides as defined in item II.","XX. A vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising between three and thirteen different polynucleotide sequences, which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I or II, wherein at least one polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides:","a) RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2 or 3;","b) RGW03B, RGW03A or RGW03 (SEQ ID NOS: 9, 8 or 7); and","c) RGW04 or RGW04A (SEQ ID NOS: 10 or 11).","XXI. A product containing between three and thirteen polypeptides, wherein at least one polypeptide is selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides:","a) RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2 or 3) or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii);","b) RGW03B, RGW03A or RGW03 (SEQ ID NOS: 9, 8 or 7) or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii); and","c) RGW04 or RGW04A (SEQ ID NOS: 10 or 11) or a variant thereof as defined in item I(ii) or (iii);","wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation.","XXII. A product containing between three and thirteen polynucleotide sequences, which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I or II, wherein at least one polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides:","a) RGW01, RGW01A or RGW01B (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2 or 3;","b) RGW03B, RGW03A or RGW03 (SEQ ID NOS: 9, 8 or 7); and","c) RGW04 or RGW04A (SEQ ID NOS: 10 or 11);","and wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in the prevention or treatment of allergy to ragweed in a human.","XXIII. A pharmaceutical formulation for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising a composition according to any one of items I to XVIII; a vector according to any one of items XIX or XX; or a product according to any one of items XXI or XXII; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.","XXIV. The composition, vector or product according to item XXIII, formulated for oral administration, nasal administration, epicutaneous administration, subcutaneous administration, sublingual administration, intradermal administration, buccal administration or for administration by inhalation or by injection.","XXV. The composition as defined in any one of items I to XVIII or product as defined in item XXI or XXII, additionally comprising a further polypeptide allergen for use in tolerising an individual to the further polypeptide allergen.","XXVI. An in vitro method of determining whether T cells recognize a polypeptide as defined in item I comprising contacting said T cells with said polypeptide and detecting whether said T cells are stimulated by said polypeptide.","XXVII. An in vitro method of determining whether an individual has or is at risk of a condition wherein the condition is characterized by allergic symptoms in response to a ragweed allergen, the method comprising testing whether the individual has T cells which respond to a composition as defined in any one of items I to XVIII, thereby determining whether the individual has or is at risk of the condition.","XXVIII. A method according to item XXVII wherein a T-cell immune response to said composition is measured by contacting the composition with T cells in a sample taken from the subject, under conditions which allow the composition and the T cells to interact; and determining whether or not any of the T cells are stimulated and thereby determining whether or not a T-cell immune response is present or absent."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
