---
title: Configuring network settings using portable storage media
abstract: A portable computer-readable media device and method of use enable automatic configuration of a computing device, such as a conventional network device or a thin client device, for operation in a network. Configuration information, including network settings and security information, is incorporated in an XML file written to the portable media device while it is installed in a first device. This configuration is then automatically transferred to a second device by installing the portable media device in the second device. The second device then writes device information, incorporated in an XML file, to the portable media device, to be uploaded to the first device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930374&OS=07930374&RS=07930374
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07930374
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/806,369, filed Mar. 23, 2004, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/534,795 filed Jan. 7, 2004, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention pertains generally to the field of computer networks and more particularly to a mechanism for simplifying the process of configuring nodes in computer networks.","The use of data communication networks continues to grow. In small as well as large corporate settings, wired local area networks (LANs) and wide area networks (WANs) have become an established feature of conducting business, and wireless networks are being increasingly employed. The use of network technology in the home, both wired and wireless, is a more recent phenomenon and has been slower to develop. In addition to facilitating Internet connectivity, home networking permits personal computing devices and various consumer electronic devices and appliances within the home to communicate with each other. Wireless technology, such as IEEE 802.11 wireless networks and networks of Bluetooth-enabled devices, is attractive in home as well as corporate environments for reasons of convenience, mobility and flexibility.","A principal impediment to the wider adoption of networking technology in the home and other non-corporate environments has been the difficulty experienced by non-expert users in configuring network devices. For example, it can be troublesome for such users to configure a device to function as a wireless access point (WAP). Setting up an ad hoc wireless network of peer devices (such as wireless PCs, wireless printers, and PDAs) is also typically a complex task. Each peer device must have the same network settings, and a secure ad hoc network typically requires each peer device to have a common WEP key, which must be communicated to the user of the peer device and entered manually. Thin client devices, such as digital audio receivers and wireless printers, which comprise an increasing number of home network devices, are particularly laborious to configure for network connectivity because they lack the convenient and intuitive I\/O capabilities of conventional personal computers.","In accordance with the invention, a portable computer-readable media device is used to configure network devices to allow network functionality and connectivity. In an embodiment of the invention, a configuration application generates, or aids the user in generating, network settings such as wireless configuration settings, LAN settings, and WAN settings. These settings are determined from the operating system or through user input. The configuration application then generates an Extensible Markup Language (XML) file embodying the network settings and writes that file to the portable computer-readable media device. A user may then install the portable computer-readable media device in one or more other network devices to automatically transfer the configuration to those network devices. In one exemplary embodiment of the invention, a wireless device may be provisioned with the wireless configuration settings necessary to join a wireless network, without requiring the user to manually enter the network settings.","In a further embodiment of the invention, a method of provisioning a network device with network settings comprises the steps of determining a network settings configuration for allowing the network device to join a network, wherein the network settings configuration includes at least a network name and a network encryption key; generating an XML file including the network settings configuration; and writing the XML file to a portable computer-readable media device. In one permutation of this embodiment, the network encryption key is automatically generated so that a user does not have to enter a lengthy encryption key manually through a user interface.","As noted above, the network settings configuration is determined in an embodiment of the invention by collecting data from a user through a user interface. In another embodiment of the invention, the network settings configuration is determined at least in part by using an application program interface (API) of an operating system to determine network settings such as wireless configuration, LAN settings, and Internet Protocol (IP) settings.","In another embodiment of the invention, data stored on a portable computer-readable media device for provisioning a device with network settings comprises an XML file containing a network settings configuration for configuring the device to join a network, and an autorun file for prompting the device to apply the network settings configuration. In this embodiment, the network settings include at least one of (1) wireless configuration settings, (2) LAN settings, (3) WAN settings, and (4) broadband modem settings. The data stored on the portable computer-readable media device can also include multiple versions of the network settings configuration, corresponding to different networks. Still further, the data stored on the portable computer-readable media device can include a device configuration file describing configured devices.","In keeping with the invention, the data stored on the portable computer-readable media device further includes an application for configuring the portable computer-readable media device, wherein the application executes on a computer to which the portable computer-readable media device is connected. In another embodiment of the invention, a method of configuring a device for operation in a network comprises detecting the installation of a portable computer-readable media device; uploading a configuration from the portable computer-readable media device, wherein the configuration includes network settings, device configuration information, security information, and file sharing information; applying the configuration; and joining the network. In this embodiment, the configuration is again embodied in an XML file stored on the portable computer-readable media device.","Additional features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.","Methods and systems for configuring network devices with a portable media device will now be described with respect to certain embodiments. The skilled artisan will readily appreciate that the methods and systems described herein are merely exemplary and that variations can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","The present invention will be more completely understood through the following detailed description, which should be read in conjunction with the attached drawings. In this description, like numbers refer to similar elements within various embodiments of the present invention. The invention is illustrated as being implemented in a suitable computing environment. Although not required, the invention will be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as procedures, being executed by a personal computer. Generally, procedures include program modules, routines, functions, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, and microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics devices. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. The term computer system may be used to refer to a system of computers such as may be found in a distributed computing environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100","100"]},"With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of the computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.","The computer  typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, and removable and nonremovable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and nonremovable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Communication media typically embodies computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above are included within the scope of computer-readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules  and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable and nonremovable, volatile and nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to nonremovable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CDROM. Other computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, DVDs, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a nonremovable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media, discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules  and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers herein to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a tablet, or electronic digitizer, , a microphone , a keyboard  and pointing device , commonly referred to as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  by way of an interface, such as a video interface . The monitor  may also be integrated with a touch-screen panel or the like. Note that the monitor and\/or touch screen panel can be physically coupled to a housing in which the computing device  is incorporated, such as in a tablet-type personal computer. In addition, computers such as the computing device  may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface  or the like.","The computer  preferably operates or is adaptable to operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a peer device or other network node, and typically includes some or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a LAN  and a WAN , but may also include other networks. For example, in the present invention, the computer  may comprise the source machine from which data is being migrated, and the remote computer  may comprise the destination machine. Note however that source and destination machines need not be initially connected by a network or otherwise, but instead, data may be migrated by way of any media capable of being written by the source platform and read by the destination platform or platforms. For example, one non-limiting instance of such a medium is a portable flash memory medium, sometimes referred to as a memory \u201ckey\u201d or memory \u201cstick.\u201d Other non-limiting examples will be given below.","When used in a LAN environment, the computer  is connectable to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . The computer  may also include a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  by way of the user input interface  or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Turning to , a simple example of a computing environment usable in implementing an embodiment of the invention is depicted. In the example shown in , a computer  communicates with a LAN  by way of a physical connection. Alternatively, the computer  communicates with the LAN  by way of WAN or other communications media. In an embodiment of the invention, the computer  is not initially in communications with any other device or network at all. In an embodiment of the invention, the computer  executes a program that generates network configuration settings. These settings are stored on a portable media device (PM) , such as a USB flash drive, Memory Stick, CompactFlash card, SmartMedia card, or other storage device. The computer  may directly accept the PM  by way of a built-in USB port, but alternatively is connected to a peripheral device, such as a card reader, that accepts the PM . In one embodiment, the PM  is a Bluetooth device that communicates wirelessly with the computer .","Once settings have been generated and stored on the PM, then, by attaching the PM  to various networkable devices, the appropriate network configuration settings are transferred to those devices, enabling network communications over a LAN , WAN , WLAN  or other types of computer networks. Exemplary networkable devices accepting the PM  include other computers  physically connected to the LAN . Although the other computers  are physically connected to the same LAN , they generally cannot communicate with one another until their network settings are appropriately configured. By attaching the PM , the appropriate network settings are transferred to the other computers , allowing for network communication between them. Similarly, a printer  accepting the PM  is configured for communications on the LAN , and\/or on a wireless network , making the printer  accessible to the computer  and other devices on the LAN  and\/or wireless network . A networkable television  and networkable telephone  also accept the PM  and are thereby configured for communications on the LAN  and\/or wireless network .","Other network hardware is likewise configured for network communication by attaching the PM . A wireless access point  accepts the PM  and is thus configured to allow communications between devices on the LAN  and other appropriately configured wireless devices. For example, if the computer  was equipped with wireless networking hardware, then it could connect to the LAN  by communicating wirelessly with the wireless access point . A modem  and router  also accept the PM  and are thereby configured to allow communication between devices on the LAN  and devices connected to a WAN  or the Internet . Notably, attaching the PM  allows for network configuration on devices such as modems  and routers  that typically do not contain input and output mechanisms such as keyboards and monitors.","The PM  is also used to configure wireless networks. For example, a notebook computer  and a tablet computer  each accept the PM  and are thus appropriately configured for wireless communications over an ad hoc wireless network . Other computers  accepting the PM  are similarly configured to communicate over the ad hoc wireless network . In this way, access to the ad hoc network is generally limited to those computers that can physically attach the PM . Without the PM , a user would have to enter configuration settings \u2014including the network name and any security keys\u2014in order to access the wireless network . By attaching the PM , a computer is granted access to the wireless network  quickly and transparently. The computer networks configured by the PM  can be peer-to-peer networks (e.g., unmanaged \u201cworkgroups\u201d that do not require a dedicated server) or domain-based networks such as client-server networks.","Turning attention to , a software architecture for generating and storing network configuration settings is now described, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. A Flash Config Wizard  is executed on a computer  and communicates with the computer through a wireless configuration application programming interface (API)  to generate wireless network configuration settings. In the Windows operating system environment, for example, the WZCDLG.DLL library can be used. In one embodiment, the Flash Config Wizard  is a standalone application. In another embodiment, the Flash Config Wizard  is integrated into a general network setup application. The Flash Config Wizard  outputs XML files to the computer through a wireless provisioning API . The Flash Config Wizard  further outputs XML files to an attached portable media device, such as a USB flash drive . The USB flash drive  stores files and applications for use in the network configuration process. An embodiment of the invention includes a network setup application  stored in the root of the USB Flash Drive  in order to facilitate the configuring of network settings on other devices. The network setup application is stored on the USB flash drive  by the Flash Config Wizard . When the USB flash drive  is attached to another device, that device can run the network setup application  to load the relevant network settings from the USB flash drive  to the other device.","In an embodiment of the invention, the USB flash drive  further stores an autorun file . When the USB flash drive  is attached to a compatible device that recognizes the autorun file, the detection of the autorun file  automatically triggers the device to execute the network setup program . In this way, no user intervention is required to transfer the network settings to the device after the USB flash drive  has been attached.","The USB flash drive  also stores, in one embodiment, a Flash Config Wizard copy . When the USB flash drive  is attached to another computer, the Flash Config Wizard  is executed by the computer to allow for manual guidance in transferring and modifying the network configuration settings.","Also stored on the USB flash drive  are several XML files representing the generated network configuration settings. These files are stored in a folder named SMRTNKEYon the USB flash drive . An LSETTING.XML file  contains settings for a LAN. An NSETTING.XML file  contains settings for a WAN. A WSETTING.XML file  contains settings for a wireless LAN. An MSETTINGS.XML file  contains settings for a broadband modem. These XML files are described in greater detail below. By storing these network configuration settings, a single USB flash drive  can be used to configure a variety of devices (such as personal computers, routers, printers, PDAs, and WAPs) to communicate over a variety of types of networks. In another embodiment of the invention, the network configuration files are in binary format instead of XML. The binaries are stored on the USB flash drive, either alone or with the XML files, allowing devices without XML parsers to read the network configuration settings.","After the network settings configuration files have been transferred to the USB flash drive , the USB flash drive  is installed in a configurable device . Configurable device  must provide support for USB Host Port, USB Mass Storage Devices, file allocation table (FAT) 16\/32 file systems, and must include an XML Parser. Additionally access points must support 104 bit wireless encryption protocol (WEP), Infrastructure mode, and IEEE 802.11b protocol. In an embodiment of the invention, configurable device  includes a light emitting diode (LED)  that blinks three times after the network configuration files are downloaded from the USB flash drive . In another embodiment of the invention, the USB flash drive  includes an LED  the blinks three times after the files have been downloaded to the device .","In an embodiment of the invention, the USB flash drive  is also used to store a device configuration file  for describing the configuration of a device to which the USB flash drive  has been attached. Configurable device  further includes a device configuration reporter  for generating the device configuration file . Each device that is configured using the USB flash drive  generates an XML file describing the configuration of that device, and reports any fault conditions. The device then writes the device configuration file  to the USB flash drive , which is next attached to a PC that uploads the device configuration file . The PC uses the device configuration file, for example, in a diagnostic tool to determine why network configuration failed. In another example, the PC obtains a uniform resource locator (URL) of the device manufacturer from the device configuration file , and uses the URL to download, through hyper text transfer protocol over secure socket layers (HHTPS), an encryption key to access the device. The device configuration file  is stored in the SMRTNKY folder in a subfolder having the same name as the device. The device configuration file , described in greater detail below, is named using the last eight bytes of the media access control (MAC) address of the device.","A method for using a portable media device to generate and store network configuration settings, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, is now described with reference to . A user installs a portable media device into a computer at step . An interactive configuration tool, or \u201cFlash Config Wizard\u201d, is then executed on the computer at step . The Flash Config Wizard interacts with the user to generate a set of network settings at step . These network settings include configuration data necessary for configuring the computer for use with a wireless network, LAN, WAN, or broadband modem. The settings are written to the portable media device at step , and the user removes the portable media device at step . At step , the user installs the portable media device in a device that the user wishes to configure. The user removes the portable media device after successful configuration, as indicated by a blinking LED, at step . At step , if there are more devices to be configured, the user repeats steps  and  for those devices. The user re-installs the portable media device in the computer executing the Flash Config Wizard at step . The Flash Config Wizard uploads the device configuration(s) at step . In an embodiment of the invention, the Flash Config Wizard uses the device configuration(s) to perform a diagnostic assessment of any errors or faults that occurred in configuring the devices. At step , the user prints a hard copy of the various network settings. By printing a hard copy, the user can more easily configure those network devices that do not accept the personal media device and therefore may need to be configured manually.","The Flash Config Wizard, as used in an embodiment of the invention, is now described in greater detail with respect to the screenshots shown in . Although the figures illustrate a program for setting up a wireless network, a Flash Config Wizard is not limited by the invention to configuring wireless networks; other networks such as wired LANs can similarly be configured using the Flash Config Wizard, in an embodiment of the invention. After an introductory screen shown in , the user is prompted for a network name and is presented the option of manually or automatically generating a network key in . In the screen shown in , the user is prompted for a 5 or 10 character ASCn network key, or a 13 or 16 character hexadecimal network key. If the user selected Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) encryption in the previous screen, the user is prompted for a 8-63 character ASCII network key, or a 64 character hexadecimal network key, in the screen shown in .  shows an error screen that appears if the user enters an invalid key.","In the screen shown in , the user is prompted to save the settings to a USB flash drive, or set up each device manually. In the screen shown in , the Wizard prompts the user to insert and identify a USB flash drive. When the user clicks \u201cNext\u201d on this screen, the Wizard stores the generated network settings to the portable media device. When the network settings have been completely stored on the portable media device, the user is presented with another screen shown in , prompting the user to remove the portable media device and plug it into all additional computers, printers, or other network devices that are to be in communication over the network. After the user is finished configuring additional devices, the user plugs the portable media device back into the computer and is presented with the screen in  notifying the user of successful configuration. The Wizard also presents the user with a \u201cPrint\u201d button, allowing the user to print a hard copy of the network settings, which allows the user to manually configure those network devices that do not accept the portable media device or that cannot be automatically configured for the network.  depicts the screen shot presented to the user if the user elects to configure devices manually. The user is prompted to print the settings for manual configuration.","The operation of the Flash Config Wizard is now described with reference to .  illustrates the operation of the Flash Config Wizard with respect to generating a wireless configuration. At step , the Flash Config Wizard prompts the user for a network name. The Flash Config Wizard then gets the wireless configuration settings through a wireless configuration API at step . The wireless configuration API is provided by the OS, such as WZCDLG.DLL in the Microsoft Windows\u00ae OS. In an alternative embodiment, the user manually enters the wireless configuration settings. At step , the Flash Config Wizard generates an XML file containing the wireless configuration settings in accordance with a schema. The Flash Config Wizard transfers the XML file to a wireless provisioning API in the OS so that the host computer may be configured with the wireless settings at step . The Flash Config Wizard also transfers the XML file, along with an autorun file, a network setup application, and a copy of the Flash Config Wizard, to a portable media device at step . After the user has configured the wireless devices and re-installed the portable media device in the host computer, the Flash Config Wizard uploads device configuration files from the portable media device at step . At step , the Flash Config Wizard analyzes the device configuration files to determine whether the wireless devices were successfully configured.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","720","730","740","750"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","820","830","840","850"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["910","920","930","940","950"]},"The procedures described with reference to  are combined in the Flash Config Wizard when the user wishes to configure multiple types of network settings (e.g. wireless and WAN settings). In this manner, the configuration files are written to the portable media device simultaneously.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1010","1020","1030"]},"A personal computer generates the network settings and device configuration files according to corresponding XML schemas. In one embodiment of the invention, a personal computer generates network settings and device configuration files for multiple profiles. The files corresponding to each profile a stored in different profile folders on the portable media device. In this manner, a user may maintain configurations for both a home and an office network on the same portable media device.","In another embodiment, the network settings files include a time-to-live (TTL) setting, and devices configured using the portable media device are denied access to the network after the prescribed TTL has passed. In this way a device is granted only temporary access to the network. In another embodiment, the TTL field is used in conjunction with an authentication scheme, such as a thumbprint. In this way, authenticated devices are granted permanent access to the network while guests are granted only temporary access as determined by the TTL field.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1100","1110","1110","1115","1115","1120","1120","1125","1125"]},"Type  indicates a connection type, and may have as its value either extended service set (ESS) in the case of an ad hoc network, or infrastructure basic service set (IBSS) in the case of an infrastructure network. Key Index  indicates the location of the specific key used to encrypt messages, and may have a value of 1, 2, 3, or 4. Key Index  is used with WEP. Key Provided Info  indicates whether a key is provided automatically, and can have a value of either 0 or 1. 802.1X 1145 indicates whether IEEE 802.1X protocol is used on the network, and can have a value of either 0 or 1. 2.4 GHz Channel  indicates which 2.4 GHz Channel, if any, is being used by the wireless network, and can have a value in the range of 1 to 14. 5 GHz Channel  indicates which 5 GHz channel, if any, is being used by the wireless network, and can have a value of 36, 40, 44, 48, 52, 56, 60, 64, 149, 153, 157, or 161 WAP Mode  indicates the mode in which the wireless access point is operating. WAP Mode  can have a value of infrastructure, bridge, repeater, or station.","EAP Method  indicates the Extensible Authentication Protocol used, and may have a value of EAP-TLS, PEAP-EAP-MSCHAPv2, or PEAP-EAP-TLS. This setting is used for 802.1x authentication only. TTL  indicates a time-to-live element for specifying the length of time a network key is valid.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1212","1213","1214","1","1215","2","1216","1217","1218","1210","1220","1230","1212","1213","1214","1","1215","2","1216","1217","1230","1231","1232","1233","1234","1235","1231","1232","1232","1234","1235"]},"The wanConnection  element specifies whether the WAN connection is a DHCP connection or a static IP connection. DHCP element  further includes subelement Hostname . Hostname  defines a string signifying the name of the DHCP host. Static IP element  further includes subelements IP Address , IP Subnet , IP Subnet Mask , DG , DNS IP Address , and DNS IP Address . IP Address  defines the static IP address of the device to be configured. IP Subnet  defines the IP subnet of the device to be configured. IP Subnet Mask  defines the IP subnet mask of the device to be configured. DG  defines the default gateway for the device to be configured.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","1310","1320","1330","1340","1350","1360","1310","1320","1320","1321","1322","1330","1330","1320","1340","1350","1360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1410","1420","1430","1440","1450","1460","1470","1480","1410","1420","1430","1440","1450","1460","1470","1480"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1500","1510","1520","1530","1510","1520"]},"Wireless settings  relate to information regarding the wireless authentication protocols (e.g. open, shared, WPA-NONE, WPA, WPAPSK, WPA2, WPA2PSK) and the wireless encryption protocols (e.g. WEP, TKIP, AES) used by the device. Wireless settings  further includes wireless settings profiles specific to the function of the device. If the device is a wireless client, wireless settings  includes wi-fi client settings . These settings relate to information regarding the regulatory domain of the device, the transmission power of the device, and the network type (e.g. 802.11a\/b\/g). If the device is a wireless infrastructure device, wireless settings  includes wi-fi infrastructure settings . These settings relate to information regarding the SSID, network type, channel, and signal strength of the wireless infrastructure. If the device is a WAP, wireless settings  includes WAP settings . These settings relate to information regarding the regulatory domain, MAC filter, beacon interval, and network type of the WAP.","It will be appreciated that an improved system and method for network device configuration have been disclosed herein. In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present invention may be applied, it should be recognized that the embodiments described herein with respect to the drawing figures are meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. For example, those of skill in the art will recognize that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the spirit of the invention. Although the invention is described in terms of software modules or components, those skilled in the art will recognize that such may be equivalently replaced by hardware components. Therefore, the invention as described herein contemplates all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["While the appended claims set forth the features of the present invention with particularity, the invention and its advantages are best understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-J"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
