---
title: Method and system for topical browser history
abstract: Disclosed is a method and system for displaying topical history of a user's browsing experience. A browser executing on a computing device navigates to a web page. A client-side module executing on the computing device obtains a set of topics associated with the web page. The client-side module determines other topics related to the set of topics associated with the web page. The client-side module determines web pages associated with the other topics that the browser has previously navigated to within a predetermined past period of time. The browser displays in a first content area the web page, and the browser displays in a second content area the set of topics associated with the web page, the other topics related to the set of topics, and links to the web pages associated with the other topics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135354&OS=09135354&RS=09135354
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09135354
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100407
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to web pages, and more specifically to a method and system for topical browser history.","The structure of the World Wide Web is based on web pages and domain names associated with those web pages. Each web page is identified by its Uniform Resource Locator (URL). When a user saves a bookmark, the user saves the URL associated with a web page to which the user may want to return. When a user signs up for a Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feed, the user obtains information from a single web page source. Further, each instance of a typical web browser is set up to display a single web page.","Despite the structure of the web being based on individual web pages, the intent of a user of the web is often not based on a particular web page itself but rather based on concepts or topics of interest.","In one aspect, a browser executing on a computing device navigates to a web page. A client-side module executing on the computing device obtains a set of topics associated with the web page. The client-side module determines other topics related to the set of topics associated with the web page. The client-side module determines web pages associated with the other topics that the browser has previously navigated to within a predetermined past period of time. The browser displays in a first content area the web page, and the browser displays in a second content area the set of topics associated with the web page, the other topics related to the set of topics, and links to the web pages associated with the other topics.","In one embodiment, the client-side module is received from a server computer over a network. The obtaining of the set of topics includes transmitting a URL of the web page to a server computer or transmitting a copy of the content of the web page to the server computer. In one embodiment, the obtaining of the set of topics further includes receiving the set of topics from the server computer. In one embodiment, the obtaining of the set of topics further includes receiving a set of topics and a set of categories associated with each of those topics.","In one embodiment, the second content area is configured according to one of the categories. The determining of other topics related to the set of topics can include retrieving the other topics from a storage in communication with the computing device or can include retrieving links associated with the web pages from a storage in communication with the computing device. In one embodiment, a score is determined for each web page in the web pages associated with the other topics to which the browser has navigated. The score may be based on total visits to the web page and\/or date of last visit to the web page.","These and other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.","Embodiments are now discussed in more detail referring to the drawings that accompany the present application. In the accompanying drawings, like and\/or corresponding elements are referred to by like reference numbers.","Various embodiments are disclosed herein; however, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely illustrative of the disclosure that can be embodied in various forms. In addition, each of the examples given in connection with the various embodiments is intended to be illustrative, and not restrictive. Further, the figures are not necessarily to scale, some features may be exaggerated to show details of particular components (and any size, material and similar details shown in the figures are intended to be illustrative and not restrictive). Therefore, specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the disclosed embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["105","110","115","105","105","118","105","110"]},"In one embodiment, the computing device  transmits a request to download a client-side module  from the server computer . The client-side module  can appear in any area of the browser (e.g., the left side of the browser , the right side of the browser , the top of the browser , and\/or the bottom of the browser ). In one embodiment, the client-side module  is a sidebar. In another embodiment, the client-side module  is a toolbar. In one embodiment, the client-side module  modifies content displayed with (e.g., below) a web page address bar. In one embodiment, the client-side module  is downloaded by the computing device  (step ) and, once the client-side module  is downloaded, a graphical user interface (UI) associated with the client-side module  is displayed when the browser  navigates to a web page (associated with or not associated with the service provider). In one embodiment, the graphical UI is displayed if the user selects to have the UI displayed. In one embodiment, the client-side module  (e.g., sidebar or toolbar) can be web-based as the secondary content presentation framework is web-based. This means that it can be shared via a domain link and the recipient can get a sidebar\/toolbar experience without requiring a download.","For example, after downloading the client-side module , the user may use the web browser  to navigate to a particular web page (step ). In one embodiment, the web browser  displays the web page in a first content area  of the browser  and displays content associated with the client-side module  in a second content area  of the browser . The size of the first content area  can be larger than or smaller than the size of the second content area . In one embodiment, the size of either or both content areas is adjustable by the user. In one embodiment, the client-side module  is accessed by the browser when a user of the computing device  enters a particular web page domain name.","In one embodiment, the computing device  transmits a request  for topics associated with the web page to which the browser  has navigated (step ). The request  for topics can be transmitting a URL of the web page to which the computing device  has navigated. The request  for topics can also be transmitting a copy of the content of the web page to which the user has navigated to the server computer .","In one embodiment, the server computer  includes a topic and category determination module . In one embodiment, the topic and category module  has previously analyzed the web page to which the user has navigated and has stored the results of its analysis in server storage  (e.g., a database). The server computer  (topic and category module ) can then use this previous analysis to quickly determine one or more topics associated with the web page. Alternatively, the topic and category module  analyzes the web page to determine a set of topics associated with the web page after receiving the request . A set of topics associated with a web page is defined herein as one or more topics associated with the web page. A topic may be part of or not part of the web page's title, URL, graphics, etc. and is typically determined by analyzing at least a portion of the text of the web page.","In one embodiment, the topic and category module  also determines from data stored in server storage  or from an analysis of the web page a set of categories associated with the web page. A category compared to a topic is a higher level of abstraction. For example, if a web page is discussing a Nikon digital camera, the topic of the web page can be digital cameras while the category of the web page can be purchasable products. A set of categories associated with a web page is defined herein as one or more categories associated with the web page.","The server computer  transmits the set of topics and the set of categories  associated with the web page to the computing device . In one embodiment, the set of topics and categories  have been ordered or ranked in accordance with their relevance to the web page itself. For example, a set of topics associated with a web page about Nikon digital cameras can be listed as\n\n","In one embodiment, a set of categories associated with the web page about Nikon digital cameras can be listed as:\n\n","In one embodiment, the server computer  (e.g., the topic and category module ) transmits the entire set of topics and the entire set of categories  to the computing device . In another embodiment, the server  transmits a predetermined number of the determined topics and categories (e.g., the first topic and the first category in each set). The computing device  receives the topics and categories  (step ). In one embodiment, the computing device  stores the topics and categories  in a storage  (e.g., a memory or database). The computing device  displays the web page in the first content area  of the web browser  (step ) and displays one or more of the topics and\/or categories in the second content area  of the web browser  (step ). In one embodiment, the computing device  configures the second content area  of the web browser  according to a received category (step ). For example, if a category associated with a web page is \u201cSports\u201d, in one embodiment the computing device  displays sports-related advertisements in the second content area  in addition to the received topics. As another example, the computing device  can display sports-related graphics in the second content area  in addition to the received topics. Further, in one embodiment different user interfaces are shown based on categories of specific topics.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["105","110","160","105","105","310","160","135","118","130","118","315","105","135","320"]},"For purposes of this disclosure (and as described in more detail below with respect to ), a computer or computing device such as the computing device  and\/or server  includes a processor and memory for storing and executing program code, data and software which may also be tangibly stored or read from any type or variety of well known computer readable storage media such as magnetic or optical discs or RAM-discs or tape, by way of non-limiting example. Computers can be provided with operating systems that allow the execution of software applications in order to manipulate data. Personal computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), wireless devices, cellular telephones, internet appliances, media players, home theater systems, servers, and media centers are several non-limiting examples of computing devices. The computing device  and the server  can, in one embodiment, also include a display, such as a screen or monitor. Further, the server and\/or computing device may include one or more computers.","An embodiment of pseudocode executed by the computing device  for detecting topics is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Begin"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Client-side module is informed of new web page load by browser"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Client-side module receives a set of topics from server computer"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003If server computer did not return error code"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Add returned topics to topic history database (described in greater detail"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003below with respect to FIG. 14)"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003If sidebar is open"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Display topic notification in client-side module user interface"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Else"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Display topic count on sidebar"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003End if"},{"entry":"\u2003End if"},{"entry":"End"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"An embodiment of pseudocode executed by the server computer  for detecting topics is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003If URL is in cache"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Get topics from URL entry in cache"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Get topics from entity detection system"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Add resulting topics to cache"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003If URL is \u201cbad\u201d (unscannable, adult, spam)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Return error code"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003If topics were found"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Return topics"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Return empty set"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In one embodiment, the server computer  receives a request for topics associated with a search query that has been input into a search input area displayed by the browser  in the first content area . The server computer  transmits to the browser  for display in the second content area  of the browser  topics associated with the search query. In one embodiment, each topic associated with the search query corresponds to a category.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["110","110","125","110","105","405","110","410","110","412","410","110","415","110","502","105","418"]},"If the category is not generic, the server computer  chooses appropriate category-specific application programming interfaces (APIs) to use to obtain data for sending to the computing device  (step ). The server computer  can include separate APIs for different categories. For example, the server computer  can include a sports API , a shopping API , a movies API , and an \u201cany other category API\u201d  representing an API for any other category. In one embodiment, the server computer  uses a specific API , , ,  to acquire data that will be part of a transmitted entity  associated with the web page. In one embodiment and as described in more detail below, the server computer  determines domain actions for a particular category (step ). The server computer  can retrieve domain actions associated with a category from an actions database . The server computer  then uses a data transmitting module  to transmit category-specific data  (e.g., an entity and\/or an action item associated with the category) to the computing device  (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["105","105","110","605","105","608","610","105","615","135","118","535","105","620","105","540","545","550","555","540","545","550","555","625","135","118"]},"In one embodiment and as described in more detail below with respect to , the computing device  determines one or more domain actions for the category (step ). The computing device  renders the actions with an actions renderer  (step ). An action associated with a category can include, for example, a link to Blockbuster's web page that enables a user to rent a movie online if the category is Movies. In a further embodiment, an action may include filling in Blockbuster's web form on the web page enabling a user to rent a movie online. These actions may be rendered by, for example, a user selecting a link, a user selecting a checkbox, etc.","An embodiment of pseudocode executed by the computing device  for displaying topics in a detailed view is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0070"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Pull topic data from server computer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003If topic category not \u201cgeneric\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Create tab set (for \u2018at a glance\u2019 and \u2018news\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Switch (based on category)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Case Generic - use generic renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Case Athlete - use athlete renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Case Product - use product renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Case Movie - use movie renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003. . ."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Case Any Other Category - use any other category renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003End Switch"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Render context-specific content using selected renderer"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Find specific actions based on category"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Loop over each action"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003If action domain not in domain-based history"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Remove action"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Increment action weight based on number of visits"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003End Loop"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Sort 3party actions based on action weight"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Render 3party actions"]},{"entry":[{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"An embodiment of pseudocode executed by the server computer  for displaying topics in a detailed view is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0072"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003If data for this topic is in the cache"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Return this data"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003If topic category is \u2018generic\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Get generic data from local Wikipedia data dump"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Switch (based on category)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Case Athlete - use Sports API"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Case Product - use Shopping API"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Case Movie - use Movies API"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003. . ."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Case Any Other Category - use Any Other Category API"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003End Switch"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Ping selected API to acquire data"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003If data fetch was successful"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Add data to topic cache"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Return this data"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Return error"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003End If"]},{"entry":[{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4","FIG. 6"],"b":["705","135","118","705","418","615","705","710","715","720"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["805","810","105","812","815","815","820","830","105","157","105"]},"In one embodiment, the Topics tab  also includes a Recent Topics section . The Recent Topics section  includes topics recently viewed (i.e., a topic recently selected by the user of the computing device  after the user was notified of the topic). In one embodiment, the topics listed in the Recent Topics section  also shows the day or date that the user viewed the topic. In one embodiment, the Topics tab  also includes topic suggestions , which are topics that are currently popular (e.g., often searched via one or more search engines). In one embodiment, when a user selects one of the topics displayed in the Topics tab , the user is brought to a detailed view. In one embodiment (and as shown in ), web page  is a web page about a review of the Nintendo Wii\u00ae console.","In , the secondary content is not associated with the current web page. The My Interests user interface is a user dashboard that displays topics that a user is following, recent topics they have viewed, and suggested topics. In one embodiment, a user accesses this user interface via a global button in the secondary content area (and possibly from the browser chrome) at any time during the browsing session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["905","910","812","915","812","915"]},"In one embodiment, the detailed view of the sidebar  provides related topics  which are other topics related to the topic of the web page (in this example, the Nintendo Wii\u00ae console). In one embodiment, if a user selects a related topic , the user navigates (in the sidebar ) to a detailed view for the selected topic. The detailed view shown in sidebar  also includes an \u201cAt a Glance\u201d tab . When selected, the \u201cAt a Glance\u201d tab  shows a context-specific view for the topic found. In this example, \u201cNintendo Wii\u201d has been categorized as a Product. Therefore, the At a Glance tab  displays shopping information  (e.g., pricing information, links to online stores, a link to eBay, a link to Craigslist, etc.). The sidebar  also includes a News tab .","The user can navigate to the web page  from the My Interests user interface, a personalized search use case where content is displayed in the second content area , and\/or a browsing use case where related topics are displayed in the second content area  and from a shared link.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1005","1010","1020","1020","1025","812","1040","1020","1040"]},"An embodiment of pseudocode of the computing device  for displaying articles for a topic is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Begin"},{"entry":"\u2003Pull article data for topic from server computer"},{"entry":"\u2003Loop over article results"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Augment article \u201csort weight\u201d based on user visits to this article"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Augment article \u201csort weight\u201d based on whether it is a browser "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003bookmark"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Place article into appropriate \u201cdomain bucket\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Add this article's weight to that bucket's weight"},{"entry":"\u2003End Loop"},{"entry":"\u2003Loop over domain \u201cbuckets\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003If domain is on blacklist for this category type (stored on client)"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Remove domain \u201cbucket\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Else"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Augment domain weight by number of visits from domain-based "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003history"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Augment domain weight if a \u201cfavorite\u201d domain (stored on "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003computing device) "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003End if"},{"entry":"\u2003End Loop"},{"entry":"\u2003Sort domain \u201cbuckets\u201d by sort weight"},{"entry":"\u2003Render domains, starting with highest weight, until cut-off reached"},{"entry":"End"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"It should be noted that the \u201carticle\u201d referenced above in the pseudocode can be replaced with a photograph, a video, etc.","An embodiment of pseudocode of the server computer  for displaying articles for a topic is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0085"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003If article data for this topic is in the cache"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Return cached articles"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Fetch 100 articles from top article sources"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Add resulting articles to the appropriate cache"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Return resulting articles"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003End If"]},{"entry":[{},{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"It should be noted that the \u201carticle\u201d referenced above in the pseudocode can be replaced with a photograph, a video, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8","FIGS. 8-10","FIG. 8","FIG. 11"],"b":["1105","1110","1120","830","1130","1130","118","812","1120","1130","812"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1205","1210","9","1215","1210","1220","1215","1210","9","1220","1230","1240","1250","1260"]},"In one embodiment, a browser history associated with the browser  is associated with topics. Thus, in one embodiment two web pages not immediately seen to be related based on their titles could in fact be found to be related based on the major topics of the web pages. Topic-based browser history can be displayed based on the topics the user is currently browsing. Thus, when a user accesses information about the topics the user is following or which are related to the web page to which the user has currently navigated, browser history will be accessed such that web pages from the user's history which correlate to the topic(s) in question will be shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["125","118","1305","125","1310","157","110","125","1315","125","157"]},"The client-side module  then determines web pages associated with the other topics that the browser  has navigated to within a predetermined amount of time (e.g., within a set number of hours, within a set number of days, etc.) (step ). The browser  displays the web page in the first content area  (step ) and the other topics related to the set of topics and one or more links to web pages associated with the other topics in the second content area  (step ).","In one embodiment, the client-side module  transmits the URL of the web page to the server computer . The server computer  receives the URL and obtains (e.g., retrieves from server storage ) a set of topics associated with the web page. In one embodiment, the server computer  determines other topics related to the set of topics associated with the web page and also determines web pages associated with the other topics that the browser has navigated to within a predetermined amount of time. The server computer  transmits the other topics and links to the web pages associated with the other topics to the client-side module  for display in the second content area  of the browser . In another embodiment, the client-side module  determines other topics related to the set of topics associated with the web page and determines web pages associated with the other topics that the browser has navigated to within a predetermined amount of time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["125","125","1405","125","110","1410","110","155","110","140","110","125","157","125","1415","125","1420","1425"]},"If there is another URL associated with the currently displayed topic in the topic history database , the client-side module  retrieves the next URL from the topic history database  (step ). The client-side module  then displays the link to the found URL (step ) in the second content area  of the browser . This is shown above in the Recent Topics section  of . In one embodiment, the client-side module  only performs step  if the second content area (e.g., sidebar) is open. In a further embodiment, the client-side module  displays an alert that there is a new topic to display. If the user accepts the alert, the new topic is displayed. In one embodiment, topic encounters stored to storage  are used as a cue for when to show notifications to the user.","In one embodiment, to determine the web pages that other users have visited which relate to particular topics in a particular period of time, the topics related to URLs are stored in a database. This results in the content of the database being keyed and therefore searchable by topic. Thus, the URLs that the user has previously visited related to that topic can be determined. In one embodiment, a score is calculated for each stored URL. In one embodiment, this score is based on total visits and\/or date of last visit. In one embodiment, topics related to a web page are automatically added to a user's topic history. In another embodiment, the user has to perform an explicit action (e.g., a topic must be accessed\/viewed) for an entity to be added to the user's topic history.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["157","1505","1510","1505","1515","1505","1520","1525","1530","1535","1540","1525","1510","1510","1545","1550"]},"An embodiment of pseudocode of the computing device  for adding a URL and topics to the topic history database  is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0098"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003If record for current URL found in database"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Pull record"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Replace page title with current page title"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Create topic set based on each current topic"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Replace topic set with topics found"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Increment visit count"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Replace existing record with updated record"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Create new record"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Set URL of new record to current URL"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Set page title of record to current page title"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Create topic set based on each current topic"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Set topic set in new record to topic set created"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Add new record to database"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Referring again to , links from the user's topic-based browser history are shown. For example, the links titled \u201camazon kindle\u201d, \u201cKobe Bryant\u201d, and \u201ckobe bryant\u201d are links from the user's browser history. These links also show the data from the last visit timestamp field  (e.g., \u201c44 mins ago\u201d, \u201c48 mins ago\u201d, and \u201c49 mins ago\u201d). Thus, the client-side module  can maintain a browser history associated with topics of web pages.","In one embodiment, the client-side module  scans the web sites across broad categories to which a particular user frequently navigates. The client-side module  can then use that information to suggest actions for those categories based on the history.","For example, suppose a service provider (e.g., Yahoo! Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif.) is presenting a user interface based around a movie that is available for sale or rent. In one embodiment, the client-side module  determines which domain(s) involved in movie sales the user navigated to the most. The client-side module  can then provide buttons to buy or rent from those web sites based on the user's history.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["110","125","110","1605"]},"The server computer  then identifies particular web sites (also referred to as \u201cbest of breed\u201d sites) in each identified category (step ). The server computer  then determines how to perform some common actions across the identified web sites (step ). This information is then stored in server storage  (step ). In one embodiment, the server computer  then transmits the information to the client-side module  so that the client-side module  can display the stored action(s) (step ).","In one embodiment, the actions suggested include actions from sites that are applicable across categories (e.g., Facebook and\/or Twitter). For example, a user can be viewing a movie topic and a Twitter action will appear because Twitter is stored in the user's history and interest profile.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 15"],"b":["125","157","125","118","1705","125","157","1710","1715","125","1720","125","1725","157","1730","1520","157","1735","1705"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 19"],"b":["125","125","157","1805","1905","157"]},"The Action record  includes an Action Type field . The Action Type field  corresponds to an enumerated value uniquely identifying the type of action (such as \u201cbuy ticket\u201d, \u201cshow athlete player profile\u201d, etc.). The Action record  also includes a Category Type field  which corresponds to a list of one or more user interface categories in which this action is valid. The Action record  also includes a Provider Name field  which corresponds to a name for the provider (e.g., \u201cAmazon.com\u201d, \u201cESPN\u201d, \u201cNetFlix\u201d, etc.). The Action record  also includes a Provider Domain  which corresponds to the domain name for the provider's website (which can be correlated to the domain-based browser history). The Action record  also includes an Action URL Template field  which corresponds to a string containing a template for the URL to navigate to in order to perform this action. The string can contain substitution codes for live values related to the specific instance in which this action is appearing, such as the specific term being considered, the zip code of the current user, etc. For example, FoxSports.com supports the action \u201cshow athlete player profile\u201d with the following URL: http:\/\/msn.foxsports.com<league>\/player?statsId=<playerID>. In one embodiment, this URL is stored in the Action URL Template field , with substitution codes for league and playerID that are filled in from the live data obtained by the client-side module  at the time these actions are presented.","Referring again to , the client-side module  determines if there are additional actions in the actions database  (step ). If there are additional actions, the client-side module  determines whether the Action Type field  of the Action record  is valid for the current user interface (UI) category displayed by the client-side module  (step ). If not, the process returns to step  to obtain the next action from the actions database . If the Action Type field  is valid for the current UI, the client-side module  determines whether the Provider Domain field  of the Action record  is in the domain history (step ). If not, the process returns to step  to obtain the next action from the actions database . If so, the client-side module  adds the action and the corresponding domain visit count to an action list (step ) in the actions database .","If there are no additional actions in step , the client-side module  sorts the current action list in the actions database  (step ). In one embodiment, the client-side module  then determines whether to display more than one action (step ). If not, the client-side module  forms a UI and provides a link for the first action (step ). The process then ends (step ). If so, the client-side module  retrieves the next action from the sorted list (step ). The client-side module  then determines whether there are additional actions (step ). If not, the process ends (step ). If so, the client-side module  forms a UI and link for the current action (step ). The process then returns to step .","An embodiment of pseudocode of the computing device  for populating domain-based history is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0111"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003","Begin"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003While more URLs in browser history"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Extract domain from URL"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003If domain seen in domain history list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Increment visit count in domain history"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003Else"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003Add new entry in domain history for this domain"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003\u2003End if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2003Loop"]},{"entry":[{},{},"End"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"An embodiment of pseudocode of the computing device  for populating an action-based UI is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0113"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Begin"},{"entry":"\u2003While more actions in action database"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003If action valid for current category"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003If action domain in domain-based browser history"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Add action to \u2018current actions\u2019 to consider"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003End if"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003End if"},{"entry":"\u2003Loop"},{"entry":"\u2003Sort \u2018current actions\u2019 in descending order by domain visits"},{"entry":"\u2003If showing more than one action"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003While more \u2018current actions\u2019"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2018Form\u2019 action URL by substituting current term in action URL tem-"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003plate"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003Display action URL link"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Loop"},{"entry":"\u2003Else"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Get first \u2018current action\u2019"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2018Form\u2019 action URL by substituting current term in action URL"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003Display action URL link"},{"entry":"\u2003End if"},{"entry":"End"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"For example, referring again to , an action  is shown which enables a user to see listings for the Nintendo Wii\u00ae on eBay. Another action  is shown which enables a user to see listings for the Nintendo Wii\u00ae on Craigslist. Referring to , a single provider domain-based action for buying tickets is shown with action . Multiple provider domain-based actions can be grouped by action provider, such as actions  associated with Sports Illustrated and actions  associated with ESPN.","In one embodiment, a user has to log into the service for these steps to occur. It should be noted that one or more of the steps described herein can be performed in any order unless otherwise noted and when the second content area is open or closed unless otherwise noted.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 1","FIG. 21","FIG. 20"],"b":["145","145","2005","2010","2015","2005","2010","2015","2005","2105","2010","2015","2005","2010","2015","2005","2010","2015","2005","2010","2015"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 23"],"b":["2005","2005","2005","2205","2305"]},"In one embodiment, the web articles  are external documents retrieved from one or more data files such as data files from a knowledge collection website (e.g., www.wikipedia.org). Wikipedia\u00ae has a large number of articles, and each article includes a link structure and belongs to at least one category. Further, \u201credirect pages\u201d enable resolution of synonyms to an article. Each link in an article points to a disambiguated article. Further, the category hierarchy in Wikipedia\u00ae is broad and deep, and the link structure of Wikipedia\u00ae articles is a valuable source of labeled training data for disambiguation and selection, as described below.","In one embodiment, the training module  includes an article information extraction module  to extract information from each web article  (step ). In one embodiment, the article information extraction module  is a module that disassembles the data (e.g., web articles) into a set of nodes in the Wikipedia\u00ae taxonomy. The article information extraction module  can also determine link data associated with the extracted information (step ). The link data obtained from each web article can include, for example, its inlinks (links from other web articles), its outlinks (links to other web articles), any redirects (from synonyms), category hierarchy, and\/or disambiguation (as defined below). The extraction module  stores the link data and extracted information (e.g., the article's text, inlinks, outlinks, any redirects, category hierarchy, and\/or disambiguation) in storage media\/medium  (e.g., a database). The Wikipedia\u00ae link structure forms the labeled training instances that are used to generate the disambiguation classifier and the selection classifier.","In one embodiment, a disambiguation learning module  operates on the information stored in the storage media\/medium . As used herein, disambiguation is the process of determining a sense of a phrase (one or more contiguous words) that can have multiple senses. In one embodiment, a phrase has multiple senses if the phrase links to more than one web article. Disambiguation is the process of determining which sense is the appropriate one in a particular usage. For example, the word \u201ctree\u201d can relate to the woody plant or it can relate to a data structure. The way the word \u201ctree\u201d is used, the words around tree, etc. determine which tree usage is the correct one for a given phrase.","The disambiguation learning module  learns, from the extracted information and\/or link data, to disambiguate the extracted information (step ). In particular, in one embodiment the disambiguation learning module  learns to predict the probability of a sense of an ambiguous phrase using its context (unambiguous topics). A phrase is considered unambiguous if it has only one sense. To disambiguate a phrase, feature vectors are created for the set of co-occurring unambiguous phrases. The disambiguation learning module  then generates a disambiguation classifier  from its learning (step ). In one embodiment, the disambiguation classifier  is a gradient boosted decision tree created using a C4.5 algorithm. Features of disambiguation include, for example: 1) prior probability or commonness of a sense (e.g., the number of occurrences of a sense\/total number of senses); 2) relatedness; and\/or 3) context quality (e.g., average relatedness of context articles).","Relatedness between two topics (also referred to as concepts) is the fraction of common articles linking to both topics (concepts) versus the number of those linking to either. In one embodiment, for two Wikipedia\u00ae articles, relatedness is the Normalized Google Distance (NGD) with the function being the set of inlinks to each article. Basically, the NGD quantifies the strength of a relationship between two words. For example, \u201cspeakers\u201d and \u201csound\u201d are more related than \u201cspeakers\u201d and \u201celephant.\u201d In one embodiment, the disambiguation learning module  finds the Yahoo! or Google PageCount when two words are used together in a search. (\u201cSpeakers\u201d and \u201csound\u201d would have a relatively high number of result pages when compared to \u201cspeakers\u201d and \u201celephant.\u201d). Thus, a search distance is a measure of semantic interrelatedness derived from the number of hits returned by the Google search engine for a given set of keywords. Keywords with the same or similar meanings in a natural language sense tend to be \u201cclose\u201d in units of search distance, while words with dissimilar meanings tend to be farther apart.","The disambiguation learning module  is in communication with a selection learning module . The selection learning module  orders topics (concepts) on how best they describe the theme of a document (e.g., web article ). As used herein, the theme of a document is defined herein as an ordered list of concepts. The list is ordered on importance of the concept to the document in question. In one embodiment, topics are one or more contiguous words that appear in a document and which are the subject of an article (node) within Wikipedia\u00ae. In particular, the selection learning module  learns to select a portion of the extracted information as being relevant to the theme of the web article (step ). Once the selection learning module  has learned to select topics, a selection classifier  is generated (step ). The selection classifier  learns to predict the probability that a topic will become an anchor. In one embodiment, the selection classifier  is a gradient boosted decision tree. In one embodiment, given the context output of the disambiguation classifier, the selection learning module  orders topics on how best they describe the theme of the document (e.g., web page). Anchors in Wikipedia\u00ae articles are created by, for example, following a set of linking guidelines, such as from Wikipedia\u00ae. Features of the selection classifier  include \u201ckeyphraseness\u201d, disambiguation probability, relatedness to context terms, depth in the Wikipedia\u00ae taxonomy, count, distribution (e.g., number of paragraphs with occurrence\/total number of paragraphs).","As described in more detail below, the selection classifier  is used in the indexing phase with the disambiguation classifier  to determine a set of topics and categories of a web page (step ). It should be noted that each module , , , , ,  of  may be software, hardware, or a combination of software and hardware. Further, the functionality of one or more of the modules may be combined with one or more additional modules.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0125"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 25"],"b":["2010","2010","145","145","2405","2505","2405","2010"]},"The indexing module  includes a tokenization module . In one embodiment, the tokenization module  tokenizes each crawled web page  to determine phrases (one or more contiguous words) in the web page  that are associated with stored data such as with Wikipedia\u00ae names  (step ). In one embodiment, the tokenization module  transmits Wikipedia\u00ae names  found in the web page  to the disambiguation classifier . As described above, the disambiguation classifier  predicts the probability of a sense of an ambiguous phrase using the context (unambiguous topics) and outputs a context  for each tokenized phrase of the crawled web page  (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0127"},"figref":"FIG. 26","b":["2225","2605","2610","2615","2620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0128"},"figref":["FIG. 27A","FIG. 27B"],"b":["2700","2225","2605","2605","2615","2225","2605","2225","2705","2705","2225","2605","2705","2225","2605"]},"As described above, the selection classifier  is applied to the context of the phrase and orders or ranks topics on how best they describe the theme of the web document .  is a screen shot  of an embodiment of a selection example. The selection classifier  receives the context of phrases in the web article  and ranks topics  (shown in ) determined from the phrases based on how best the topics describe the theme of the web document . An output window  (shown in ) of the selection classifier  illustrates examples of topics found and their respective weights.","Referring again to , in one embodiment, the selection classifier  transmits topics and categories  associated with the web page  into a topic ordering module . The topic ordering module  includes an Aboutness module  and a \u201cSearch inducing\u201dness module . The Aboutness module  filters topics that are not important to the largest cluster of coherent topics. In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  is a second level filter of relevance. In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  removes topics that have low association with other topics in context . In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  is modeled as the dominance of a topic to other topics present on the web page. In one embodiment, dominance of a topic is defined as the coverage of context topics by its outlinks. As an equation, dominance of a topic is defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0131"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["Outlinks","Context"],"mo":"\u22c2"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"Outlinks"}]}}}},"In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  ranks selected topics on Aboutness and discards those topics with a value of zero. In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  provides a score for each topic identified in the web page . The score represents how dominant the topic is compared with other topics found for the web page . In a further embodiment, the Aboutness module  provides a score (representing how dominant the topic is) and a weight for the score (representing how much weight should be given for the particular score value). In one embodiment, the Aboutness module  generates a classifier to learn to choose a single dominant topic in large articles.","In one embodiment, the topic ordering module  also includes a \u201csearch-inducing\u201dness module . \u201cSearch-inducing\u201dness describes the probability that a term would be web-searched explicitly. In one embodiment, this module  re-ranks the topics  transmitted from the selection classifier . \u201cSearch-inducing\u201dness can be calculated for each topic, treating its surface forms as search queries and is a function of one or more of the following: 1) number of queries landing on the current page ; 2) total number of queries; and 3) change in buzz score, where buzz in general means whether the topic under consideration is receiving a lot of attention (e.g., how newsworthy the topic currently is) on the Internet.","The topics and categories output  from the topic ordering module  is then applied to a category ranking module . In one embodiment, the category ranking module  ranks the categories  further. In one embodiment, each topic belongs to many different categories. In one embodiment, the category ranking module  ranks categories for each topic germane to the current context. In one embodiment, categories  are ranked as a function of their agreement with those of other selected topics and depth in the Wikipedia\u00ae category hierarchy. For example, the category ranking module  would rank the category \u201cAmerican film actors\u201d higher than \u201cGovernors of California\u201d in a web page discussing actors for Arnold Schwarzenegger. In one embodiment, the category ranking module  outputs a topic and category document  (e.g., in XML) related to each web page . It should be noted that each module , , , , , , , and  of  may be software, hardware, or a combination of software and hardware. Further, the functionality of one or more of the modules may be combined with one or more additional modules.","After the previously described phases are completed, the runtime phase is performed. A user uses the web browser displayed by the computing device  (as shown in ) to navigate to a particular web page.  shows a screen shot of an embodiment of a web page  to which the user has navigated and a sidebar . The web page  is displayed in a first content area  of browser . The sidebar  is displayed in a second content area  of the browser . In one embodiment, URL  of the web page  is transmitted to the server computer  (as shown in ). In one embodiment, the server computer  uses the URL  to query its storage  (as shown in ) to retrieve entities corresponding to topics associated with the web page . In one embodiment, a hash is used to verify freshness of topics in the entities. The entities are displayed by the computing device in the second content area  of the browser . For example, entities , , and  are displayed for the web page . The entities can include, for example, text, an icon, a graphic, a link, a video, etc. associated with a topic in the set of topics.","In one embodiment, the server  queries its storage  and determines that no entities exist for the particular URL . When this occurs, in one embodiment the server  downloads the web page  and executes the indexing phase described above on the web page . When the processing associated with the indexing phase is completed for the URL , the server  transmits one or more entities associated with the web page  to the computing device  for display.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0137"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 30"],"b":["110","105","3000","3012","3002","3002","3006","3014","3004","3008","3010","3016","3018"]},"Memory  interfaces with computer bus  so as to provide information stored in memory  to CPU  during execution of software programs such as an operating system, application programs, device drivers, and software modules that comprise program code, and\/or computer-executable process steps, incorporating functionality described herein, e.g., one or more of process flows described herein. CPU  first loads computer-executable process steps from storage, e.g., memory , storage medium\/media , removable media drive, and\/or other storage device. CPU  can then execute the stored process steps in order to execute the loaded computer-executable process steps. Stored data, e.g., data stored by a storage device, can be accessed by CPU  during the execution of computer-executable process steps.","Persistent storage medium\/media  is a computer readable storage medium(s) that can be used to store software and data, e.g., an operating system and one or more application programs. Persistent storage medium\/media  can also be used to store device drivers, such as one or more of a digital camera driver, monitor driver, printer driver, scanner driver, or other device drivers, web pages, content files, playlists and other files. Persistent storage medium\/media  can further include program modules and data files used to implement one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. Persistent storage medium\/media  can be either remote storage or local storage in communication with the computing device.","For the purposes of this disclosure a computer readable storage medium stores computer data, which data can include computer program code executable by a computer, in machine readable form. Computer storage media includes volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, DVD, or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods and systems of the present disclosure may be implemented in many manners and as such are not to be limited by the foregoing exemplary embodiments and examples. In other words, functional elements being performed by single or multiple components, in various combinations of hardware and software or firmware, and individual functions, may be distributed among software applications at either the client or server or both. In this regard, any number of the features of the different embodiments described herein may be combined into single or multiple embodiments, and alternate embodiments having fewer than, or more than, all of the features described herein are possible. Functionality may also be, in whole or in part, distributed among multiple components, in manners now known or to become known. Thus, myriad software\/hardware\/firmware combinations are possible in achieving the functions, features, interfaces and preferences described herein. Moreover, the scope of the present disclosure covers conventionally known manners for carrying out the described features and functions and interfaces, as well as those variations and modifications that may be made to the hardware or software or firmware components described herein as would be understood by those skilled in the art now and hereafter.","While the system and method have been described in terms of one or more embodiments, it is to be understood that the disclosure need not be limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the claims, the scope of which should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures. The present disclosure includes any and all embodiments of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawing figures, which are not to scale, and where like reference numerals indicate like elements throughout the several views:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 27A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 27B","FIG. 27A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 28A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 28B","FIG. 28A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 28C","FIG. 28A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
