---
title: Method of converting bomblet to hand grenade
abstract: A method of converting a bomblet into a hand-thrown grenade may include providing a bomblet having a fuze, a shaped-charge liner, a casing, and explosive material disposed between the shaped-charge liner and the casing. The fuze may be removed from the bomblet. A housing may be attached a fuze end of the bomblet. The housing may adjoin the casing. A cavity that abuts and is exterior to the shaped-charge liner may be filled with a filler material, such as pellets. A hand-grenade fuze may be attached to the fuze end of the bomblet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08272328&OS=08272328&RS=08272328
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08272328
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101213
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to munitions and in particular to hand-thrown grenades.","Some large gun-launched projectiles, such as 155 mm projectiles, may carry many submunitions or bomblets that may be expelled in flight. Each bomblet may be independently stablized and armed. One type of bomblet may include a point detonating fuze that detonates the bomblet on impact. Detonation of the bomblet may send anti-personnel fragments radially and may send a shaped-charge jet downward. A large number of gun-launched projectiles that contain bomblets may no longer be used. Thus, there may be millions of surplus bomblets.","If the surplus bomblets are destroyed, the large original capital investment in the bomblets will be lost. And, the process of de-militarizing the bomblets is another large cost. A need exists for a cost-effective method of converting surplus bomblets into useful products.","It is an object of the invention to provide a cost-effective method for converting surplus bomblets into useful products.","One aspect of the invention is a method of converting a bomblet into a hand-thrown grenade. The bomblet may included a fuze, a shaped-charge liner, a casing, and explosive material disposed between the shaped-charge liner and the casing. The method may include removing the fuze from the bomblet and attaching a housing to a fuze end of the bomblet. The housing may adjoin the casing. A cavity that abuts and is exterior to the shaped-charge liner may be filled with a filler material. A hand-grenade fuze may be attached to the fuze end of the bomblet.","The bomblet may include studs that were used to stake the bomblet fuze to the bomblet. The housing may include openings therein for receiving the studs. The housing may be attached by re-staking the studs to fix the housing in place. The housing may abut the shoulder of the casing. The housing may have a central opening therein. One end of the central opening may include internal threads.","The method may include placing a stab detonator in the central opening in the housing. The hand-grenade fuze may be inserted in the central opening in the housing.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","A known Dual Purpose Improved Conventional Munition (DPICM) bomblet may be converted into a hand grenade that may be thrown by soldiers. The process of converting the known DPICM bomblet into a hand grenade may be about 30 to 40% cheaper than purchasing a new hand grenade.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-C","b":["10","10","12","12","20","12","10","12","14","10","16","18","26","16","24","24","28","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-C","FIGS. 1A-C","FIG. 4B"],"b":["60","10","10","12","10","12","10","22","12","10","20","32"]},"A housing  () may be attached to the fuze end of bomblet . Housing  may adjoin casing  and may abut shoulder  of casing . Housing  may include openings  formed therein for receiving studs . Housing  may include a central opening  formed therein. Opening  may include internal threads  at one end. Housing  may be made of, for example, plastic, metal, or epoxy. Housing  may be fixed in placed on casing  () by inserting studs  in openings  in housing  and resting the bottom of housing  on shoulder . Interior holes  in studs  may be used to stake studs  and secure housing  in place.","The method may include filling cavity  () with a filler material. Filler material may include pellets  (), such as steel buckshot. Pellets  may impart increased lethality to hand-grenade . Pellets  may be held in a matrix, such as a polymer matrix, that may be fixed to the exterior surface of liner  using, for example, an adhesive. Filler material may also include, for example, sand, epoxy, or plastic or other suitable materials.","A stab detonator  () may be placed in central opening  in housing . Stab detonator  may be, for example, an M55 stab detonator. As shown in , a hand-grenade fuze  may then be inserted in central opening  in housing . Fuze  may include external threads  for engaging internal threads  formed in one end of central opening . Fuze  may be, for example, an M218 hand-grenade fuze.","The novel method uses a bomblet designed for use in artillery projectiles and converts the bomblet into a hand-thrown grenade for the infantry. The method may save the cost of demilitarizing millions of bomblets and the cost of procuring new hand grenade warheads. In addition, the method may recover sunken costs in existing hardware.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1B"],"b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2C"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
