---
title: Systems and methods for row-wire voltage-loss compensation in crossbar arrays
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed systems and methods for reading the resistance states of crossbar junctions of a crossbar array. In one aspect, a system includes one or more sense amplifiers connected to column wires of the crossbar array, a reference row wire connected to each sense amp, and a wire driver connected to the reference row wire and configured to drive the reference row wire. The sense amplifiers are configured so that when a selected row wire of the crossbar array is driven by a sense voltage, the column wires are held at approximately zero volts and pass currents through the column wires and sense amplifiers to the reference row wire so that resistive voltage losses along the reference row wire substantially mirror the resistive voltage losses along the selected row wire, allowing the sense amplifiers to determine the crossbar junction resistance states.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611134&OS=08611134&RS=08611134
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08611134
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100325
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR001 1-09-3-000, awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.","Embodiments of the present invention relate to microscale and nanoscale electronic devices, and in particular, to crossbar arrays.","During the past fifty years, the electronics and computing industries have been relentlessly propelled forward by ever decreasing sizes of basic electronic components, such as transistors and signal wires, and by correspondingly ever increasing component densities of integrated circuits, including processors and electronic memory chips. Eventually, however, it is expected that fundamental component-size limits will be reached in semiconductor-circuit-fabrication technologies based on photolithographic methods. As the size of components decreases below the resolution limit of ultraviolet light, for example, far more technically demanding photolithographic methods may need to be employed. Expensive semiconductor fabrication facilities may need to be rebuilt in order to implement the photolithographic methods. Many new obstacles may be encountered. For example, semiconductor devices are photolithographically fabricated in a series of steps. The masks used in each step are precisely aligned with respect to the components already fabricated on the surface of a nascent semiconductor. As the component sizes decrease, precise alignment becomes more and more difficult and expensive. As another example, the probabilities that certain types of randomly distributed defects in semiconductor surfaces result in defective semiconductor devices may increase as the sizes of components manufactured on the semiconductor surfaces decrease, resulting in an increasing proportion of defective devices during manufacture, and a correspondingly lower yield of useful product. Ultimately, various quantum effects that arise only at molecular-scale distances may altogether overwhelm current approaches to semiconductor fabrication.","In view of these problems, researchers and developers have expended considerable research efforts in fabricating submicroscale and nanoscale electronic devices using alternative technologies. Nanoscale electronic devices generally employ nanoscale signal wires having widths, and nanoscale components having dimensions, of less than 100 nanometers. More densely fabricated nanoscale electronic devices may employ nanoscale signal wires having widths, and nanoscale components having dimensions, of less than 50 nanometers, or, in certain types of devices, less than 10 nanometers.","Although general wire technologies have been developed, it is not necessarily straightforward to employ nanowire technologies to miniaturize existing types of circuits and structures. While it may be possible to tediously construct miniaturized, nanowire circuits similar to the much larger, currently available circuits, it is impractical, and often impossible, to manufacture such miniaturized circuits using current technologies. Even were such straightforwardly miniaturized circuits able to be feasibly manufactured, the much higher component densities that ensue from combining together nanoscale components necessitate much different strategies related to removing waste heat produced by the circuits. In addition, the electronic properties of substances may change dramatically at nanoscale dimensions, so that different types of approaches and substances may need to be employed for fabricating even relatively simple, well-known circuits and subsystems at nanoscale dimensions. Designers, manufacturers, and users of logic circuits and memory continue to seek new nanoscale electronic components and electronic devices.","Embodiments of the present invention are directed systems and methods for reading the resistance states of crossbar junctions of a crossbar array.  shows an isometric view of a crossbar array  configured in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. The crossbar array  is composed of a first layer of approximately parallel wires  called \u201ccolumn wires\u201d that are overlain by a second layer of approximately parallel wires  called \u201crow wises.\u201d The row wires are approximately perpendicular, in orientation, to the column wires, although the orientation angle between the layers may vary. The two layers of wires form a lattice, or crossbar, each wire of the second layer  overlying all of the wires of the first layer  and coming into close contact with each wire of the first layer  at wire intersections that represent the closest contact between two overlapping wires. Wire intersections connected by devices  are called \u201ccrossbar junctions.\u201d Although individual wires in  are shown with rectangular cross sections, the wires can also have square, circular, elliptical, or more complex cross sections. The wires may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities.","The term \u201cwire\u201d may refer to nanowires with widths or diameters of less that about 100 nm or to microscale wires with widths or diameters of greater than 100 nm and less than about 100 \u03bcm. Also, the term \u201cwire\u201d is used here in place of the term \u201cline,\u201d which is also commonly used in the literature, as in the usage \u201crow and column lines,\u201d \u201cline widths,\u201d etc. The term \u201ccrossbar\u201d may refer to crossbars having one or more layers of nanowires, sub-microscale wires, microscale wires, or wires with larger dimensions.","Wire layers can be fabricated by mechanical nanoimprinting techniques. Alternatively, wires can be chemically synthesized and can be deposited as layers of approximately parallel wires in one or more process steps, including Langmuir-Blodgett processes. Other alternative techniques for fabricating wires may also be employed. Thus, a two-layer wire crossbar comprising first and second layers, as shown in , can be manufactured by any of numerous relatively straightforward processes. Many different types of conductive and semi-conductive wires can be chemically synthesized from metallic and semiconductor substances, from combinations of these types of substances, and from other types of substances. A wire crossbar may be connected to microscale address-wire leads or other electronic leads, through a variety of different methods in order to incorporate the wires into electrical circuits.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["202","204","202","204","202","204","206","106","206","208","206","210","212","202","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["302","304","306","308","310"]},"Typically, the resistance states of crossbar junctions can be read by applying an appropriate voltage to a selected row wire and measuring the voltage and\/or current on selected column wires using sense amplifiers (\u201csense amps\u201d). A sense amp is an electronic circuit used to determine the logic bit value stored in a memory cell, such as the memory cell at a memristor crossbar junction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404","406","408","410","402","412","404","406","414","416","412","402","414","416","408","410"]},"Note that as the size of crossbar junctions and row and column wire cross-sectional dimensions decrease, the wire resistance per unit length increases. This increase in resistance overshadows the resistance-decreasing effect of shortened row and column wires that may result from decreased crossbar junction dimensions. Thus, as layout dimensions decrease, a row or column wire connecting a number of crossbar junctions will have a net increase in resistance. In particular, this increased resistance produces a gradual voltage decline, or decrease, along a selected row wire as the voltage driven by the row wire driver forces current through the row wire and the selected crossbar junctions. The voltage decline can be characterized as a \u201cvoltage droop.\u201d  includes a plot  of voltage represented by curve  along the selected row wire . Points - represent the voltages measured on the selected row wire at the connection points of memristors -, respectively, with the memristors passing sufficient current to create a voltage droop along the row wire. Given a row wire crossing Ncolumns, forming Nmemristors that are by assumption here in the same resistance state, the voltage droop measured at the memristor connection point farthest from the row wire driver is approximately proportional to N.","In theory, memory read circuits can determine selected crossbar junction resistance states based on the measured column wire current and with the knowledge of the voltage across the selected crossbar junctions. However, in practice, the voltage droop along a selected row wire is problematic, because sense amps can only measure the voltage on the near column-wire-side of the memristor, and have no way of measuring the far row-wire-side voltage. A sense amp typically measures the column wire current while holding the column wire voltage to a reference voltage. The measured column wire current along with knowledge of the voltage across the selected crossbar junction enables the memory read circuits to determine the selected crossbar junction resistance state. The voltage across a selected crossbar junction, in the absence of any IR-losses in the row wire, is equal to the voltage driven by the row wire driver, shown as +Vsense in , minus the column wire reference voltage established by the column sense amp. This voltage value is decreased by any IR-loss in the row wire (i.e. voltage droop), which is generally undetected by the sense amp. This IR-loss cannot be predicted in advance of the row wire read operation, since the current flow in the wire depends on the resistive state of the memristors being read. Thus, the unknown voltage droop along a selected row wire represents an error term in the selected crossbar junction's resistance state, as determined by the column sense amp. The system and method embodiments now described are directed to compensating for a selected row wire voltage droop so that determination of a crossbar junction resistance state at a sense amp is nearly unaffected by the voltage droop.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","501","503","504","506","501","503","508","510","504","506","512","514","516","518","512","514","512","512","520","522","504","523","520","524","526","528","526","526","504","516","528","520"],"sub":["ref","ref "]},"In order to determine the resistance states of a row of memristors, a selected row wire is driven with a sense voltage, +V, and unselected row wires are driven with approximately 0 volts. All column wires are used to read the resistance states of the memristors of the selected row through respective sense amps that hold their columns wires at a virtual \u20180\u2019 volts. For example, suppose it is desired to read the resistance states of the memristors connecting the row wire  to the column wires -. Row wire  is the selected row wire and row wires  and  are not selected row wires. As shown in the example of , row wire driver  applies +Vto selected row wire  and 0 volts are applied to row wires  and . Additionally, reference row wire driver  applies \u2212Vto reference row wire .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["501","504","506","602","501","604","604","508","606","608","610","612","610","612","504","506","512","514","512","504","526","504","520","520","526","512","504","526","520","526","526","526","526","526","526","610","526","520","610","610","528","528","610"],"sub":["sense","G ","G ","GS","GS ","DS","GS","th ","th ","DS ","GS","FET","MEMRISTOR","FET","MEMRISTOR ","FET ","MEMRISTOR","GS","GS ","GS ","ref"],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["V",">V","\u2212V","R","\u2248R"]},"In certain embodiments, the reference row wire  is configured to have a similar resistance profile as the row wires of the crossbar array, and experiences a voltage droop of approximately equal magnitude, but of opposite polarity, as the voltage droop of the selected row wire.  includes a plot  of the reference row wire voltages at the FETs of the sense amps -, as represented by points -, respectively. The magnitude of the drain-to-source voltages, V, across the FETs is approximately equal to the magnitude of the voltages across the memristors -, but the voltages have opposite polarity. Dotted curve  represents the voltage V(x) along, the reference row wire , which approximately matches the voltage Valong the selected row wire  (i.e., \u2212V(x)\u2248+V(x)\u00d7(\u22121)). Thus, the drain-to-source voltage across the FETs of the sense amps - are approximately equal in magnitude to the voltages, applied to the corresponding memristors but with opposite polarity. In other words, a FET of a sense amp experiences a drain-to-source voltage that droops nearly identically to the voltage across the corresponding memristor being read (i.e., V(x)\u2248V(x)). Additionally, the current through both devices is approximately equally due to the negligible bias current entering the op amp (i.e., I\u2248I). It follows that:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","MEMRISTOR"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":["V","MEMRISTOR"]},{"mi":["I","MEMRISTOR"]}]},{"msub":[{"mi":["V","FET"]},{"mi":["I","FET"]}]}],"mo":"\u2248"},"mo":"=","msub":{"mi":["R","FET"]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["GS","FET","MEMRISTOR","GS ","GS","GS ","REF"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["610","512","700","512","508","610","610","526","522","520","520","523","520","522","523","524","524","526","526","610","526","526","526","526","526","700","702","700","610","520","526","528","704","700","610","520","526","528"],"sub":["sense ","GS","GS ","GS ","low","sense ","sense","low","GS ","Gslow ","REF","REF","Gslow","high","sense ","sense","high","GS ","GShigh ","REF","REF","GShigh","REF ","GSlow ","GShigh ","REF","GSlow","GShigh"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["V","V","+V"]},"Electromigration is the process by which wires with repeated use wick down and eventually fail. Electromigration can be an issue on row wires of a crossbar, because selected row wires can carry the current of a full row of selected crossbar junctions. In the system embodiments described above, the reference row wire  is especially prone to electromigration because the reference row wire  is used on every read, and therefore, is more likely to fail before any individual row wire of the crossbar array. In certain system embodiments, in order to reduce the likelihood of the reference row wire  failing due to electromigration, the reference row wire  can be fabricated with a larger cross-sectional area than the cross-sectional areas of the row wires of the crossbar array. This can be accomplished by any number of means including fabricating a wider reference row wire, a taller wire, multiple parallel wires, etc. Increasing the cross-sectional area along the entire length of the reference row wire  reduces the resistance of the reference row wire  by a factor k, which is represented mathematically by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":["ref","wire"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","wire"]},"mi":"k"}}}},"br":{},"sub":["wire ","sense ","sense","sense "],"b":"516","figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 6 and 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","FET"]},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","MEMRISTOR"]},"mi":"k"}}}},"br":{},"sub":["MEMRISTOR ","GS ","sense","sense"]},"In certain implementations, it may not be possible to practically fabricate the above described sense amp design for every column wire without also reducing the effectiveness and other useful advantages offered by the compact crossbar array design. In certain embodiments, multiplexers can be used to reduce the number of sense amps.  shows a schematic representation of a crossbar array  and sense amps configured in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. The crossbar array  is composed of 24 row wires  and 36 column wires  connected by memristor devices (not shown). As shown in the example of , the 36 column wires  are grouped into blocks of 12 column wires, where each block of 12 column wires is connected to a multiplexer assembly. For example, a block  of 12 column wires is connected to a multiplexer assembly . Each multiplexer assembly is connected to two sense amps, which are connected to a reference row wire , as described above. For example, multiplexer assembly  is connected to sense amps  and . The sense amps are configured and operated as described above with reference to . Note that by introducing multiplexer assemblies, as shown in the example of , the number of sense amps is reduced from 36, one for each column wire as described above with reference to , to just 6 sense amps.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["810","812","806","810","812","816","808","816","806","818","820","812","822","810","810","822","814","816","806","816","806","824","826"]},"The multiplexers can be implemented with FETs to control the operations performed by the unselected and selected column multiplexers.  shows a circuit diagram of the crossbar array  and a multiplexer assembly  configured in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. The multiplexer assembly  is composed of an unselected column multiplexer  and a selected column multiplexer . The column wires - can represent a block of column wires within a larger crossbar array. The column wires - are connected to the unselected column multiplexer  and the column wires - are also connected to the selected column multiplexer . Each column multiplexer includes the same number of FETs as the number of connected column wires. For example, unselected column multiplexer  includes three N-channel FETs - connected to the column wires -, respectively, and selected column multiplexer  also includes N-channel FETs - connected to the same column wires -. Note the source, drain, and gate for each of the FET's - and - are also identified using S, D, and G designations.","Operation of the unselected and selected column multiplexers is now described with reference to an example. Suppose the resistance state of the memristor  is to be read. A voltage +Vis applied to the selected row wire  and 0 volts are applied to the row wires  and  as described above with reference to . The unselected column multiplexer  is operated by applying appropriate gate-to-source voltages that place the FET  in a high-resistance state and place the FETs  and  in a low-resistance state, allowing only the current flowing through memristors  and  to reach the sense amp . On the other hand, the selected column multiplexer  is operated by applying appropriate gate-to-source voltages that place the FET  in a low-resistance state and the FETs  and  in a high-resistance state, allowing only the current flowing through the selected memristor  to reach the sense amp . The sense amp  is operated to determine the resistance state of the memristor , as described above with reference to . The sense amp  is operated to pass the current from the unselected column wires  and  into the reference row wire, while maintaining those wire at a virtual \u20180\u2019 volts. Since no logic determination is made by sense amp , the comparator described above with reference to  is not needed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["1001","1002","1003","1004","1005","1006","1007"],"sub":"sense "},"The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously, many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents:"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
