---
title: DTMF signalling between mobile and server
abstract: In a method of processing an incoming sequence of one or more DTMF tones at a mobile device, the sequence is decoded to thereby identify any encoded message. Where the decoding does not identify a message, at least applying an error correction algorithm to the sequence to identify a message. Where the algorithm fails to correct the sequence, the sequence is compared to messages currently expected by the mobile device. If a message is not identified, a negative acknowledgement message may be sent. At a server, upon receipt of a negative acknowledgement message, it is determined if a message was sent to the mobile device in a previous pre-determined time window. If so, the message is re-sent. The server repeatedly sends certain messages to a mobile device until an acknowledgement message indicating receipt of the message by the mobile device is received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346235&OS=08346235&RS=08346235
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08346235
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100125
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application relates to DTMF signaling between mobile devices and a server.","Many cellular devices today are capable of processing both voice calls and internet\/computer data. These devices are commonly referred to as \u201csmartphones\u201d. With the advent of Voice-over-IP (VoIP) technology, it has become possible to deliver voice calls over IP networks or over a combination of IP networks and the public-switched telephone network (PSTN) rather than solely over the PSTN, as was conventional.","In some systems, voice call services are provided via connection between mobile devices to an enterprise server. These systems may include a suite of call setup features and in-call features, such as those accessible to a PBX-connected desk phone. These features may be implemented by way of a signaling protocol between the mobile devices and the server. For example, a request to invoke a particular feature by a mobile device may be encoded into a signal transmitted by the mobile device to the server. Typically, signals transmitted between the mobile devices and a server are transmitted over the data channel. However, the data channel may sometimes be unavailable for various reasons.","Therefore, signals transmitted between the mobile devices and a server may be transmitted over the voice channel in DTMF. However DTMF is not a reliable and efficient data transmission mechanism in general, so there is a need for improved signaling between mobile devices and the voice mobility server.","Similar reference numerals may have been used in different figures to denote similar components.","In one aspect, the present application provides a method of processing an incoming sequence of one or more DTMF tones at a mobile communications device. The method includes decoding the sequence to identify any message encoded by the sequence; where the decoding does not identify a message encoded by a given incoming sequence, at least applying an error correction algorithm to the incoming sequence to identify a message from the given incoming sequence. The method further includes where the error correction algorithm fails to correct, comparing the given incoming sequence to messages currently expected by the mobile communications device.","In another aspect, the present application provides a method at a server of communicating with a mobile communications device. The method includes upon receipt of an indicator indicating receipt by the mobile communications device of an unrecognized message, determining if a first message was sent to the mobile communications device in a previous pre-determined window of time; and re-sending the first message if the determining determines that the second message was sent to the mobile communications device in the previous pre-determined window of time.","In yet another aspect, the present application provides a method of voice call handling at a mobile communications device. The method includes receiving over a voice connection at least one received tone, where each of the at least one received tone comprises a dual tone multi-frequency (\u201cDTMF\u201d) signal; decoding the at least one received tone to identify a message; and where the message is a call answered message, sending at least one reply tone, the at least one reply tone encoding an acknowledgement message.","In yet another aspect, the present application provides a method of voice call handling at a mobile communications device. The method includes receiving a signal from a server; extracting a sequence of DTMF tones from the received signal; and identifying a message mapped by the sequence, if the sequence maps uniquely to a message. The method further includes where the sequence does not map to any message, applying an error correction algorithm to the sequence to produce a corrected sequence, and identifying a message mapped by the corrected sequence. The mobile sends a \u201cnegative acknowledgement\u201d message to the server if no message is identified.","Mobile devices implementing, and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed implement, the disclosed methods are provided.","Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.","Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system, mobile device architecture, server architecture, or computer programming language.","The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to \u201ccalls\u201d in the description of example embodiments below, it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session-based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging-based communications in some embodiments.","Reference is now made to , which shows, in block diagram form, an example system, generally designated , for the control and management of communications. The system  includes an enterprise or business system , which in many embodiments includes a local area network (LAN). In the description below, the enterprise or business system  may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network  may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.","The enterprise network  may be connected, often through a firewall , to a wide area network (WAN) , such as the Internet. The enterprise network  may also be connected to a public switched telephone network (PSTN)  via direct inward dialing (DID) trunks or primary rate interface (PRI) trunks.","The enterprise network  may also communicate with a public land mobile network (PLMN) , which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network (WWAN) or, in some cases, a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN  may be made via a relay , as known in the art.","The enterprise network  may also provide a wireless local area network (WLAN) featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs  may exist outside the enterprise network . For example, WLAN may be connected to WAN .","The system  may include a number of enterprise-associated mobile devices  (only one shown). The mobile devices  may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN , mobile devices equipped for Wi-Fi communications over one of the WLANs , or dual-mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs  may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.","It will be understood that the mobile devices  include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN  and\/or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments, the PLMN  and mobile devices  may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols, including GSM, GPRS, CDMA, EDGE, UMTS, EvDO, HSPA, 3GPP, or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device  may roam within the PLMN  and across PLMNs, in known manner, as the user moves. In some instances, the dual-mode mobile devices  and\/or the enterprise network  are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN  and a WLAN , and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions (such as voice calls) from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual-mode device  to the WLAN  interface of the dual-mode device , and vice versa.","The enterprise network  typically includes a number of networked servers, computers, and other devices. For example, the enterprise network  may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers  (one shown). The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network  may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets  (one shown).","The enterprise network  may include one or more mail servers, such as mail server , for coordinating the transmission, storage, and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server\u2122 and the IBM Lotus Domino\u2122 server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information, such as an e-mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network  in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application, such as an e-mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user's computer  connected to the enterprise network  within the enterprise. In some embodiments, the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer, for example at another location via the WAN  using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application, the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others, within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server  to send a composed message to the addressee, often via the WAN .","The relay  serves to route messages received over the PLMN  from the mobile device  to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay  also pushes messages from the enterprise network  to the mobile device  via the PLMN .","The enterprise network  also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay , the enterprise server  functions to redirect or relay incoming e-mail messages addressed to a user's e-mail address within the enterprise network  to the user's mobile device  and to relay incoming e-mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device  out to the intended recipients within the WAN  or elsewhere. The enterprise server  and relay  together facilitate \u201cpush\u201d e-mail service for the mobile device  enabling the user to send and receive e-mail messages using the mobile device  as though the user were connected to an e-mail client within the enterprise network  using the user's enterprise-related e-mail address, for example on computer .","As is typical in many enterprises, the enterprise network  includes a Private Branch eXchange (although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP-PBX, for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both)  having a connection with the PSTN  for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX  is connected to the PSTN  via DID trunks or PRI trunks, for example. The PBX  may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit-switched connections through the PSTN  and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments, the PBX  may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX  is also connected to the enterprise network  and, through it, to telephone terminal devices, such as digital telephone sets , softphones operating on computers , etc. Within the enterprise, each individual may have an associated extension number, sometimes referred to as a PNP (private numbering plan), or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX  to the PSTN  or incoming from the PSTN  to the PBX  are typically circuit-switched calls. Within the enterprise, e.g. between the PBX  and terminal devices, voice calls are often packet-switched calls, for example Voice-over-IP (VoIP) calls.","The enterprise network  may further include a Service Management Platform (SMP)  for performing some aspects of messaging or session control, like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP  may, in some cases, also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP  and PBX  may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform, generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform  and, in particular, the SMP , is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX  and\/or DID\/PRI trunks. Although the SMP  may be implemented on a stand-alone server, it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent\/server as a logical software component. As will be described below, the SMP  may be implemented as a multi-layer platform.","The enterprise communications platform  implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between, for example, a circuit-switched call and a VoIP call, or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments, in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform  provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant, interactive voice response, call forwarding, voice mail, etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users, such as blocking international calls or 1-900 calls. In many embodiments, Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) may be used to set-up, manage, and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform , for example, Web Services, Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) protocol, Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), and various custom Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), as will be described in greater detail below.","One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform  is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example, the enterprise communications platform  may allow the mobile device  to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone, such as the digital telephone set  or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing, enterprise voice mail, conferencing, call transfer, call park, etc.","Reference is now made to , which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again, although references are made below to \u201ccalls\u201d or call-centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session-based communications in general and, in some instances, to messaging-based communications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["16","18","60","60","16","18"]},"In this embodiment, the SMP  assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as \u201cFirst Party Call Control\u201d. Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX  are handled by the SMP  in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise, for example, are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter, a call leg is established from the SMP  to the called party within the enterprise, and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly, the SMP  includes a digital trunk interface  and a digital signal processing (DSP) conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge  performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features, such as conferencing, call transfer, etc. The digital trunk interface  may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards, e.g. Intel Dialogic cards, interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface  may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as, for example, a Host Media Processing (HMP) processor.","The SMP  may include various scripts  for managing call processing. The scripts  are implemented as software modules, routines, functions, etc., stored in non-volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts  may implement call flow logic, business logic, user preferences, call service processes, and various feature applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["16","18","18","18"]},"The call control server  is coupled to the PBX , for example through the LAN, enabling packet-based communications and, more specifically, IP-based communications. In one embodiment, communications between the PBX  and the call control server  are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words, the call control server  uses SIP-based communications to manage the set up, tear down, and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment, the call control server  may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA-269 or ECMA-323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications (CSTA).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["14","18","74","74","18","72","76","72","76","72","74"]},"The SIP server  interacts with the media server  using SIP-based media handling commands. For example, the SIP server  and media server  may communicate using Media Server Markup Language (MSML) as defined in IETF document Saleem A., \u201cMedia Server Markup Language\u201d, Internet Draft, draft-saleem-msml-07, Aug. 7, 2008. The media server  may be configured to perform Host Media Processing (HMP).","Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system  will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.","Reference is now made to , which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system  with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment, the SMP  is a multi-layer platform that includes a protocol layer , a services layer  and an application layer . The protocol layer  includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer  includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally, the application layer  includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.","Specifically, the protocol layer  preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example, the protocol layer  can include, among other things, a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP , a Web Services protocol , an Application Programming Interface or API , a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI , and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols - are plug-ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network , which will be further described below.","For the purposes of this disclosure, SIP  will be utilized, although it is appreciated that the system  can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art, SIP is the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) standard for multimedia session management, and more specifically is an application-layer control protocol for establishing, maintaining, modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art, the SIP protocol  includes two interfaces for signaling: SIP-Trunk (hereinafter referred to as \u201cSIP-T\u201d) and SIP-Line (hereinafter referred to as \u201cSIP-L\u201d). Specifically, the SIP-T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non-specific entity or not registered (i.e., when communicating between two network entities). In contrast, the SIP-L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered (i.e., when dialing to a specific extension). The specific operation of the system  utilizing SIP  will be described in further detail below.","The SMP  also includes a plurality of enablers, among other things, a VoIP enabler , a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler , a conference services enabler , a presence enabler  and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers - are used by corresponding services in the services layer  that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer  is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example, a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler, and an emergency response application may use the phone call service, an Instant Messenger service, a video call service, and email service and\/or a conference service.","The application layer  may include a conference services application  that, together with the conference services enabler , enables multiple communication devices (including desk telephones and personal computers) to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in , the conference server  is provided in the enterprise network  and is in communication with the conference services enabler  preferably through the SIP protocol , although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate, such as the Web Services protocol  or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below, the conference call server  is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices (i.e., mobile devices , telephones , and computers ).","Turning now to , the general operation of the system  using SIP  as the signaling protocol will be discussed, although it is recognized that the present system is not limited to the processes discussed herein. The signaling descriptions that follow are based on Third Party Call Control architecture, such as that illustrated in  or . It will be appreciated that similar but slightly modified signaling may be used in a First Party Call Control architecture, wherein the PBX  will pass media through to the SMP  for direct media handling by the SMP . Variations in the signaling to adapt to various architectures will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["11","101","16","20","11","101","18","100","12","16","18","11","102","11","16","104","16","18","16","18","106","18","2000","16","108"]},"The SMP  then sets up the outgoing call leg to the destination. It does this by sending an invite over SIP-L to the PBX  with the destination number of the target phone (block ). SIP-L is used so that the call can be correctly attributed to the individual within the organization within any call records that are being maintained by the PBX . When the invite is received, the PBX  dials the destination number to the target phone  (block ), and the target phone  answers the call (block ). When the target phone  is answered, the PBX  sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP  indicating that the target phone  is ready to receive data (block ). The SMP  then sends an invite over SIP-T to the PBX  and shuffles the SDP (Session Description Protocol, as known to those of ordinary skill in the art) to connect the call legs (block ). When the call legs are connected, the PBX  sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP  (block ), and the users of the device  and target phone  can communicate with each other.","Note that between the cellular call leg being established and the outgoing call leg being answered, the mobile user hears ringing tones. These ringing tones may be provided by the PBX  using the presentation of early media from the outgoing call leg, or they may be generated locally on the device  if early media is not available. In the latter case, it will be necessary to localize the ringing tone to match the tone normally heard with a call through the PBX .","The above description is known as a \u201cmobile initiated\u201d call, because the SMP  provides the mobile device  with the DNIS number into which the mobile device  has called. Alternatively, the mobile originated call could be \u201cPBX initiated\u201d, as shown in . Specifically, in a PBX-initiated call, upon receipt of the mobile originated call request (block ), the SMP  confirms receipt of the call to the mobile device  with an ANI number (block ), which the mobile device uses to identify the incoming call from the PBX . The PBX  then sends an invite over SIP-T to the PBX  with the cellular number of the device and the ANI number that is attached to the outgoing call (block ). Upon receipt of the invite, the PBX  makes a cellular call to the device  (block ), which is answered by the device (block ). The device  checks the ANI number in the incoming call to confirm if the number is actually from the PBX . If the ANI number is stripped for any particular reason, then the device  may be configured to answer the call as a regular cellular call, or it may reject the call as unknown. When the device  answers the PBX-initiated call, the PBX  sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP , indicating that the call leg to the device is established (block ).","In response, the SMP  sends an invite over SIP-L with the destination number of the target phone  to the PBX  (block ). When the invite is received at the PBX , the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone  (block ), the target phone  picks up the call (block ), and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX  to the SMP  (block ), indicating that the target phone  is also ready to receive data. In response to the 200 OK, the SMP  sends an invite to the PBX , shuffling the SDP to connect the call legs (block ). Finally, when the call legs are connected, the PBX  sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP , and the users of the device  and target phone  are able to communicate with each other.","In both instances, the SMP  is performing third party call control of the two call legs, the PBX  remaining in control of the call. The decision of whether to proceed with a mobile-initiated call or a PBX-initiated call can be set by policy. Specifically, the option to select either mobile-initiated or PBX-initiated calls is a feature provided in the SMP , and an administrator for the enterprise network  can determine which setting to use. For example, in some cases it may be more cost effective for the corporation to utilize PBX-initiated calls rather than mobile-initiated calls, and vice versa. However, it is appreciated that the system  is not limited to the above processes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7A"],"b":["80","101","101","16","150","16","16","18","152"]},"In response to the invite, the SMP  sends a call request with the DNIS number and source details to the device  (block ), which is confirmed to the SMP (block ). In addition to confirming the call, the mobile device  sends a cellular call to the DNIS number at the PBX  (block ). Again, as the DNIS number is routed in the dialing plans to the SMP , upon receipt of the cellular call, the PBX  sends an invite over SIP-T to the SMP  with the DNIS number (block ). In response to the invite, a \u201c200 OK\u201d signal is sent over SIP-T from the SMP  to the PBX , acknowledging that the call leg to the mobile device  is established (block ). Finally, the initial invite (block ) is acknowledged with the \u201c200 OK\u201d signal with the cellular SDP, at which point the call legs are joined and the target phone  and device  can communicate with each other on the call.","The diagram shown in  illustrates a \u201cmobile-initiated\u201d call, because, as discussed above with respect to , the SMP  presents the mobile device  with the DNIS number at the PBX  into which to call. However, it is also possible to employ a \u201cPBX-initiated\u201d mobile terminated call, as shown in , where the PBX  sends an incoming call to the device  with the ANI number of the target phone .","Specifically, similar to the mobile initiated call described above and shown in , the target phone  sends an incoming call to the destination number of the device, which is received at the PBX  (block ). Upon receipt of the call, the PBX  sends an invite over SIP-L to the SMP  (block ) with the source number of the target phone . In response to the invite, the SMP  sends a call request with the source number to the device  (block ), with the ANI number the device should expect in the incoming call, the call request being confirmed by the device (block ). At this point in the PBX-initiated call, the SMP  sends an invite over SIP-T to the PBX  with the cellular number and ANI number to use (block ), prompting the PBX  to make a cellular call to the device  with the ANI number (block ), prompting the device to ring. The device  answers the call (block ), and a \u201c200 OK\u201d signal is sent from the PBX  to the SMP , acknowledging that the cellular call leg to the device  is established (block ). In response, a \u201c200 OK\u201d signal is also sent from the SMP  to the PBX , acknowledging that the call leg to the target phone  is also established (block ). The SMP  shuffles the SDP to connect the call legs, the call legs are joined, and the target phone  and device  can communicate with each other on the call.","As discussed above with respect to , the SMP  remains in control of the signaling between the target phone  and the mobile device  in both the mobile-initiated and PBX-initiated calls. Again, the decision to proceed with a mobile-initiated call or a PBX-initiated call is based on policy and may be set by a system administrator. In some cases, it may be more efficient or cost effective for the administrator to decide that PBX-initiated calls should be used, and in other cases, it may be more efficient or cost effective for mobile-initiated calls to be utilized. As these policy decisions may vary by organization and are not imperative to the scope of the present application, they will not be discussed in further detail.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":["10","11","50","26","12","14","11","50","20","50","21","21","17","26","12","14","17","14","11","14","14"]},"As explained previously, with reference to , the enterprise communications platform  may provide mobile voice services to mobile devices  so as to allow a given mobile device  to act in the same manner as a PBX\/IP-PBX -connected desk phone (e.g. telephone set ). Specifically, the enterprise communications platform  may provide a suite of call setup features and in-call features much like the features available to a PBX\/IP-PBX -connected desk phone. These features may be implemented in a message exchange protocol between mobile devices  and server . Specifically, and as will be more fully explained below, a user-originated request for a particular feature may initiate a message exchange sequence between the user's mobile device  and the server . These messages may be encoded by modulating a signal in accordance with a data modulation technique, as will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The resulting data signal may then be transmitted by the mobile device  to the server , and vice versa via PSTN , PLMN  or WAN  or a combination thereof.","In an exemplary embodiment of system , dual-tone multi-frequency (DTMF) signaling is used in the exemplary message exchange protocol for message exchange between mobile devices  and server . As may be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, DTMF signaling operates as follows: each symbol in the set {0-9, *, #, A-D} is laid out in a 4-by-4 matrix, and a particular frequency associated with each symbol in the set. The DTMF matrix is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"1209 Hz","1336 Hz","1477 Hz","1633 Hz"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["697 Hz","1","2","3","A"]},{"entry":["770 Hz","4","5","6","B"]},{"entry":["852 Hz","7","8","9","C"]},{"entry":["941 Hz","*","0","#","D"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Specifically, each symbol in the DTMF symbol set is represented by a combination of two frequencies. For example, to represent the symbol \u201c1\u201d, a 697 Hz sinusoidal wave is combined with a 1209 Hz sinusoidal wave. The resulting combined wave may be audible as a \u201cDTMF tone\u201d. To transmit the symbol \u201c1\u201d, the combined wave, or \u201cDTMF tone\u201d associated with the symbol \u201c1\u201d may be transmitted to the intended recipient over the voice channel. The recipient may then decode the received wave, or \u201cDTMF tone\u201d to determine which symbol was sent. In this disclosure, the terms \u201cDTMF symbol\u201d and \u201cDTMF tone\u201d may be used interchangeably. However, in certain contexts the term \u201cDTMF symbol\u201d may be used to specifically refer to one of DTMF symbols {0-9, *, #, A-D}, and the term \u201cDTMF tone\u201d to refer to the audible representation of a particular DTMF symbol.","The universe of messages in the exemplary exchange protocol may be stored in two tables. The first table may be a device-to-server message table storing the universe of messages sent by a mobile device  to server , i.e. possible messages mobile device  could send to server . The second table may be a server-to-device message table storing the universe of message sent by server  to mobile devices , i.e. possible messages server  could send to device .","Table  (), an exemplary device-to-server message table, contains an exemplary list of sixteen possible in-call feature control messages that may be sent from a mobile device  to the server  during an active voice call. Table  may be stored in a memory (not shown) of server . Each of rows , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  lists an exemplary mapping of control messages to DTMF sequences. For example, row  specifies that the HOLD_CALL control message is mapped to the DTMF sequence \u201cC3C\u201d. The HOLD_CALL message, may, for example, indicate that a user wishes to put an active voice call on hold. To send a HOLD_CALL message to server , mobile device  may send a sequence of three DTMF tones (\u201cDTMF tone sequence\u201d), each associated with the DTMF symbols \u201cC\u201d, \u201c3\u201d and \u201cC\u201d respectively, to server  in a conventional manner. Upon receipt, server  may decode the received DTMF tone sequence, in a conventional manner, to determine that the symbols \u201cC\u201d, \u201c3\u201d and \u201cC\u201d were sent by the mobile device . Further, server  may identify that the symbol sequence \u201cC3C\u201d is mapped to the HOLD_CALL message, and may thereby determine that that particular mobile device  (or more accurately, the user of that particular mobile device ) is requesting that the active voice call be put on hold. Server  may then take further action as appropriate.","Table  (), an exemplary server-to-device message table, contains an exemplary list of nineteen possible in-call feature control messages that may be sent from server  to a mobile device  during an active voice call. Table  may be stored in a memory (not shown) of mobile device . Each of rows , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  specifies an exemplary mapping of control messages to DTMF sequences. For example, as specified in row , the TARGET_RINGING control message is mapped to the DTMF sequence \u201c*C\u201d. This message may indicate, for example, that the called party device is ringing. To send the TARGET_RINGING message to a mobile device , server  may send the \u201c*\u201d tone followed by the \u201cC\u201d tone to the mobile device  in sequence in a conventional manner. Upon receipt, the mobile device  may decode the received DTMF tone sequence, in a conventional manner, to determine that the symbols \u201c*\u201d and \u201cC\u201d were sent by server . Mobile device  may further identify that the symbol sequence \u201c*C\u201d is mapped to the TARGET_RINGING message, and may take further action as appropriate.","Moreover, an indicator may be kept in server-to-device message table  indicating that receipt of a particular message should be acknowledged. In particular, a value of \u201c1\u201d in the column entitled \u201cACK\u201d for a particular message may indicate that receipt of that particular message should be acknowledged. Thus, the value of \u201c1\u201d in the ACK column of row  indicates that receipt of a TARGET_ANSWERED message by mobile device  should be acknowledged (by sending DTMF tone \u201cD\u201d () to server , as further described below). Conversely, the values of \u201c0\u201d in the ACK column for all other rows of table  indicates that receipt of any one of the other messages need not be acknowledged by mobile device .","Table  () lists two special non-control messages that may be sent by a mobile device  to server . Table  may be stored in the memory of mobile device . Specifically, table  specifies that an ACK (\u201cacknowledge\u201d) message is mapped to a single DTMF tone, \u201cD\u201d, and a NACK (\u201cnegative acknowledgement\u201d) message is mapped to a single DTMF tone, \u201cB\u201d. The functions of the ACK and NACK messages will become apparent below.","It may be noted that each exemplary control message in tables  and  consists of a sequence of two to four DTMF tones. The mapping of each control message in the universe of all control messages to a particular sequence of DTMF tones may of course be arbitrary. However, as will become apparent, strategic mapping of particular sequences of DTMF tones to particular control messages, and strategic selection of particular DTMF tones in certain sequences, may be advantageous. Notably, such strategic mapping may increase the reliability of DTMF signaling between mobile devices  and voice mobile server  in system , as detailed below.","DTMF has traditionally been regarded as an unreliable data transmission mechanism. For example, DTMF tones can be lost or corrupted in transmission. DTMF tone detectors may sometimes detect false DTMF tones. Additionally, it takes approximately 100 ms to send a single DTMF tone, therefore DTMF is a relatively slow method of communication.","Moreover, the design of enterprise communications platform  further adds to the challenges of using DTMF signaling in system . For example, enterprise communications platform  is a real-time system and thus requires virtually instant communication between server  and a mobile device . Thus, keeping the number of DTMF tones sent per message to as few as possible, and limiting the number of instances of re-transmission of messages, may be desirable (because, for example, long transmission times may result in user perception of sluggish system response times). Second, since DTMF tones are transmitted over the voice channel in the exemplary embodiment and are within human-audible range, a multitude of DTMF tones may degrade user experience since a user would hear these tones in his or her mobile device earpiece. Thus, for this reason also, it may be desirable to reduce the number of DTMF tones exchanged between the mobile device  and server .","Accordingly, a method for increasing reliability of DTMF signaling between mobile device  and server  is provided, which method may minimize signaling. In overview, the method includes mapping certain control messages to DTMF tone sequences such that even if only a part of a complete DTMF tone sequence is received, e.g., due to transmission error or decoding errors, the recipient mobile device  may nevertheless identify the intended message. The method may further include repeated transmission by server  of certain very important control messages until receipt is acknowledged by an intended recipient mobile device . The method may further include transmission of a \u201cnegative acknowledgement\u201d message by mobile device  to server  upon receipt of a DTMF tone sequence that it cannot identify as a recognized message.","More specifically, the exemplary embodiment includes redundantly coding certain messages so that an error correction algorithm can be applied to a received sequence of tones to recover the sequence of tones that were actually sent. For example, the CALL_DISCONNECTED (row ) and SECOND_CALL_DISCONNECTED (row ) messages listed in table  () map to DTMF sequences \u201c88C\u201d and \u201c99C\u201d, respectively. Notably, no other control message that may be sent by server  to mobile device , as specified in table , maps to \u201c88C\u201d and \u201c99C\u201d, or maps to any two sequence sub-sequence of \u201c88C\u201d and \u201c99C\u201d. Further, the only single signal that does not uniquely map to \u201c88C\u201d or \u201c99C\u201d is the signal \u201cC\u201d. Thus, conveniently, even if mobile device  does not receive the complete sequence of tones \u201c88C\u201d but only receives a sub-sequence of those tones, e.g. \u201c8\u201d, \u201c88\u201d, \u201c8C\u201d, it may be able to identify the received tones as the CALL_DISCONNECTED message. Similarly, if mobile device  receives a sub-sequence of the tones \u201c99C\u201d, it may be able to identify the received tones as the SECOND_CALL_DISCONNECTED message.","As will be noted from tables  and , not all messages are redundantly coded. In these instances, contextual error correction may be performed. For example, the CALL_HELD_FAILED (table , row ) is not redundantly coded. That is, if a mobile device  were to receive the sequence of tones \u201c2C\u201d, it would not necessarily be able to uniquely identify a message because the DTMF tones \u201c2C\u201d is a sub-sequence of DTMF tone sequences for several other messages, namely, CALL_FAILED (row ); TARGET_NOT_FOUND (row ); TARGET_NOT_AVAILABLE (row ); CALL_RESUME_FAILED (row ); and ATTND_TRANSFER_SUCCESS (row ). However, in this scenario, mobile device  may still be able to deduce what sequence of tones was actually sent by server  by comparing the received sequence of tones to messages currently expected by mobile device . For example, if mobile device  had previously sent a HOLD_CALL control message (table , row ) to server , it may expect to receive in reply a CALL_HELD or CALL_HELD_FAILED message. Upon sending a particular control message to server , it may be determined if server  may be expected to reply to that message with a reply message. If so, device  may store a table of expected reply messages for a pre-determined time (e.g. 10 minutes\u2014but of course other time periods could be used).","Referring to table  (), the CALL_HELD message is mapped to the DTMF sequence \u201c31C\u201d and the CALL_HELD_FAILED message is mapped to the DTMF sequence \u201c32C\u201d. Therefore, since the received sequence of tones detected by mobile device , \u201c2C\u201d, is a sub-sequence of the sequence \u201c32C\u201d but not of the sequence \u201c31C\u201d, it may be deduced that voice mobile server  actually sent the sequence \u201c32C\u201d, thus identifying that voice mobile server  sent a CALL_HELD_FAILED message.","For some features, it may be desired that receipt of control messages associated with those features be assured. The TARGET_ANSWERED message (, table , row ) is an example of such a message. This message may be sent by server  to mobile device  to indicate that the called party (i.e. the \u201ctarget\u201d) is connected. In particular, voice mobility server  may be designed to refrain from sending any voice data signals originating from the called party until the calling party, i.e. mobile device , acknowledges receipt of the TARGET_ANSWERED message. Absent this requirement, it is possible that the initial part of the called party's conversation could be dropped because mobile device  is not, for example, in a proper state to receive. Consequently, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure, receipt of a TARGET_ANSWERED message should be acknowledged by the recipient (i.e., mobile device ).","Moreover, because the TARGET_ANSWERED message is mapped to a single DTMF tone (i.e. \u201cB\u201d), in the event that the tone is dropped during transmission, the intended recipient mobile device  may have no way of knowing that server  had sent a message. Even further, in the event the tone is corrupted in transmission but nevertheless received by mobile device  (e.g. as DTMF tone \u201cC\u201d, rather than tone \u201cB\u201d) mobile device  may not be able to deduce which message was actually sent. Thus, a mechanism for ensuring proper receipt of the message is required. The ACK message may be a suitable mechanism. In exemplary table  (), row  specifies that the ACK message is mapped to DTMF sequence \u201cD\u201d. Therefore, to send an ACK message, mobile device  may send the \u201cD\u201d DTMF tone to server .","In some cases, mobile device  may be unable to identify any recognized messages from a sequence of received DTMF tones, due to for example, errors or corruption of the DTMF tones in transmission. For example, if the \u201c1\u201d tone in the sequence \u201c1C\u201d (mapping to the TARGET_ALERTING message (Table , row )) was dropped in transmission from server  to mobile device , mobile device  may only receive the \u201cC\u201d tone. However, the \u201cC\u201d tone is a part of many other possible server to device messages (e.g. CALL_FAILED \u201c22C\u201d (row ), TARGET_NOT_FOUND \u201c21C\u201d (row )). Thus, mobile device  may have no way (in the event the error correction mechanisms previously described fail to identify a message) of ascertaining what sequence of tones server  actually transmitted. In such instances, mobile device  may send a NACK (\u201cnegative acknowledgement\u201d) message to server . In exemplary table  (), row  specifies that the NACK message is mapped to DTMF sequence \u201cB\u201d. Therefore, to send a NACK message, mobile device  may send the \u201cB\u201d DTMF tone to server .","In operation, and with reference to flow diagram S (), upon receipt of a sequence of one or more DTMF tones, mobile communications device  may decode the sequence of tones using for example, a conventional DTMF signal decoder component of mobile device  (not illustrated) (S). Mobile device may determine whether the sequence of tones encode a message (S) by, for example, comparing the tones to tones listed in server-to-device message table  (). Table  may be stored in a memory of mobile device , as previously described.","If it is determined that the sequence of tones identify a message (the \u201cidentified message\u201d), (i.e. the sequence of tones match a sequence of tones mapped to a particular message listed in server-to-device message table ), communications device  may subsequently determine if the identified message requires acknowledgement (S) by, for example, determining if the \u201cACK\u201d indicator for the identified message has been set to \u201c1\u201d in table . If the identified message requires acknowledgement, mobile device  may send an \u201cACK\u201d message to server , in the manner previously described (S).","However, if no message is identified at S, mobile device  may attempt to identify a probable message (S) using an error correction mechanism, further described in conjunction with  below. If, following application of the error correction mechanism, no message is identified (S), mobile device may indicate an error by, for example, sending a \u201cNACK\u201d message to server  (S), in the manner previously described. If, following application of the error correction mechanism, a message is identified (S), mobile device may subsequently determine if the identified message requires acknowledgement, and if it does, acknowledge the message (S, S).","Operation of the error correction mechanism (S) will now be described in conjunction with . To identify a candidate message, mobile device  may determine if the received tones map uniquely to a message (i.e. if the received tones are a sub-sequence of tones mapping to a redundantly coded message, in the manner previously described) (S). If it does, then the received tones may be identified as the candidate message (S), and further operation of mobile device  may proceed on the assumption that the message actually sent by server  was the candidate message.","If the received tones do not map uniquely to any messages (i.e. if the received tones are a sub-sequence of more than one message), mobile device  may determine if it is expecting any particular reply messages from server . To do so mobile device  may examine messages stored in the expected reply message table (S). If one or more candidate reply messages are currently expected (i.e. there is at least one message stored in the expected reply message table), mobile device  may determine if the received DTMF sequence maps uniquely to one of the candidate reply messages (S), in the manner previously described. If it does, then mobile device  may identify the received tones as the candidate message (S). Subsequent operation of mobile device  may proceed on the assumption that the message actually sent by server  was the candidate message. However, if the received tones do not uniquely map to any expected reply messages, mobile device  may be unable to identify the message (S). Similarly, if the received tones do not map uniquely to any messages, and no reply messages are currently expected from server  (S), then mobile device  may be unable to identify any message (S) (i.e. may be unable to map the received tone sequence to any messages).","Operation of the exemplary embodiment from the server  perspective will now be described in conjunction with .","Flow diagram  () depicts the simplest case in which server  sends a redundantly coded message (e.g. CALL_DISCONNECTED (, row ) or SECOND_CALL_DISCONNECTED (, row )) to mobile device  (S). Receipt of the message by mobile device  may be assumed. Moreover, even if a transmission error occurs resulting in mobile device  receiving only a sub-sequence of the tones sent by server , conveniently, mobile device  may still identify the intended message in the manner previously discussed.","Flow diagram  () depicts operation of server  upon receipt of a NACK message (, row ) from a mobile device  which it serves. Upon receipt of a NACK message (S), server  may determine if it sent a message to the mobile device  which sent the NACK message in a past window of time (S) (e.g. past 1 minute\u2014of course, windows of time other than 1 minute could be employed). If it has, server  may resend the message (S) (because, for example, the DTMF tones may have been corrupted in transmission in such a way that mobile device  was unable to identify a candidate message in the manner previously described).","Flow diagram  () depicts operation of server  to send a server message to mobile device  that requires an acknowledgement of receipt, such as exemplary TARGET_ANSWERED message (, row ). Specifically, server  may send the TARGET_ANSWERED message to mobile device (S). It may subsequently check whether it has received an ACK message ( row ) from mobile device  (S). If an ACK message is received from mobile device , acknowledging receipt of the TARGET_ANSWERED message, operation may end. However, if no ACK message has been received, server  may re-send the TARGET_ANSWERED message until it receives an ACK from mobile device .","Exemplary interactions between server  and a mobile device , in accordance with the present disclosure are provided in . Specifically,  is a signal diagram showing a call request from mobile device  to server  (block ). The call request may be of the form described in  and may, in particular, include the telephone number of the target (i.e. called) party (not shown). Server  (specifically, SMP  in conjunction with PBX \u2014FIGS. A\/B) may set up the connection with the target party in the manner previously described. Upon receiving an indication that the called party has answered (e.g. Target Phone Answers block  or Answers block \u2014FIGS. A\/B), server  may send a TARGET_ANSWERED message to mobile device  (block ). Mobile device  may determine that the TARGET_ANSWERED message must be acknowledged, and may, accordingly, send an ACK message back to server  (block ).","When mobile device  receives an unknown message (, block ), it may send a NACK message to server  (block ), thus prompting server  to check whether it had sent a message to mobile device  in a past window of time, and to re-send the message, if required.","Thus, as may now be appreciated, by implementing a message exchange protocol between server  and mobile devices  using DTMF signaling over the voice channel, server  and mobile devices  may communicate even when the data channel is unavailable. To account for the fact that DTMF signaling over the voice channel can be unreliable, \u201cacknowledge\u201d and \u201cnegative acknowledgement\u201d mechanisms have been introduced into system . Additionally, error correction algorithms, such as the contextual error correction and redundant coding, may be used to correct some transmission errors, thereby reducing the number of instances requiring re-transmission of messages.","While not described in detail, it will be understood that the disclosed methods, exemplary message exchange protocol and components thereof (e.g. the message tables) may be implemented in software using programming languages such as JAVA, C++, etc., or in a combination of hardware and software. More specifically, computer readable medium  and computer readable medium  may store executable instructions which when executed by a processor (not shown) of mobile device  or server , respectively, cause mobile device  and server  to perform the disclosed methods.","Furthermore, it may be understood that message tables ,  and  need not necessarily be stored as separate tables, nor in the locations described above. For example, in an another embodiment, message tables ,  and  may be combined into one table and stored in a location accessible to server  and mobile devices  over one or a combination of PSTN , WAN  and PLMN . Moreover, the message table(s) may be stored in the form of a flat file, or in a conventional database which may be queried by server  and mobile devices .","Even further, redundant codes may be selected so that application of certain conventional error correction algorithms known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be applied.","Certain other adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore, the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings which show example embodiments of the present application, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A","b":["13","13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
