---
title: Integration of a terahertz quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide
abstract: The present invention is directed to the integration of a quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide on a chip to improve both the beam pattern and manufacturability. By coupling the QCL output into a single-mode rectangular waveguide the radiation mode structure can be known and the propagation, manipulation, and broadcast of the QCL radiation can then be entirely controlled by well-established rectangular waveguide techniques. By controlling the impedance of the interface, enhanced functions, such as creating amplifiers, efficient coupling to external cavities, and increasing power output from metal-metal THz QCLs, are also enabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08213476&OS=08213476&RS=08213476
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08213476
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100825
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Rectangular Waveguide Fabrication","Characterization of Empty Stand-Alone Free-Space-Coupled Rectangular Waveguides","Impedance Matching at the QCL-RWG Interface","Abrupt QCL-RWG Transition","Stepped QCL-RWG Transition","Tapered QCL-RWG Transition","Characterization of Waveguide Integration","Terahertz Photonic Integrated Circuits"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/297,872, filed Jan. 25, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to terahertz (THz) technologies and, in particular, to coupling a terahertz quantum cascade laser (QCL) to a hollow waveguide, impedance matching the interface between the laser and the waveguide, and using the impedance matching to enable efficient extraction of light from the QCL off chip or to enable THz photonic integrated circuits on chip.","The capability of delivering more than 1 mW of average power at frequencies above about 2 THz combined with very good intrinsic frequency definition make QCLs an appealing solid-state solution as compact THz sources. However, several challenges to the implementation of QCLs as practical THz sources remain. Among these challenges are to couple the QCL power efficiently to other devices (possibly on the same chip) or into free space. To couple the power efficiently to other devices on the same chip, low-loss waveguides are desired, whereas to efficiently propagate the QCL power off the chip requires shaping the non-optimal output beam patterns observed from QCLs into a more useful and predictable beam shape which can be propagated and recoupled to other devices.","There are essentially two types of waveguides of THz QCLs, plasmon and metal-metal. For both, the beam patterns found in the literature show far-field patterns with complex phase structures that are very detrimental for coupling a laser to coherent mixers. See A. J. L. Adam et al., \u201cBeam patterns of terahertz quantum cascade lasers with subwavelength cavity dimensions,\u201d 88(15), 151105 (2006); and E. E. Orlova et al., \u201cAntenna Model for Wire Lasers,\u201d 96, 173904 (2006). Even when the beam is nominally Gaussian, poor coupling to external coherent detectors is observed, possibly due to a large number of emitted modes with different phases. See H. Richter et al., \u201cTerahertz heterodyne receiver with quantum cascade laser and hot electron bolometer mixer in a pulse tube cooler,\u201d 93, 141108 (2008). Groups have tried various approaches to improve the beam quality over the last couple of years. These include soldering a triangular piece of metal on to the end of a QCL, sandwiching the laser between two pieces of silicon to make a capacitive waveguide and horn, placing a silicon lens in contact with the facet, butt-coupling a QCL into a hollow pyrex tube and, more recently, distributed feedback third order Bragg gratings and etched semiconductor horns. See S. Barbieri et al., \u201cIntegrated Horn Antenna for Microstrip Waveguide THz Quantum Cascade Lasers,\u201d , CWP4 (2007); M. Amanti et al., \u201cHorn antennas for terahertz quantum cascade lasers,\u201d 43, 573 (2007); A. W. M. Lee et al., \u201cHigh-power and high temperature THz quantum-cascade lasers based on lens-coupled metal-metal waveguides,\u201d 32(19), 2840 (2007); A. A. Danylov et al., \u201cTransformation of the multimode terahertz quantum cascade laser beam into a Gaussian, using a hollow dielectric waveguide,\u201d 46(22), 5051 (2007); M. I. Amanti et al., \u201cLow-divergence single-mode terahertz quantum cascade laser,\u201d 3, 586 (2009); and J. Lloyd-Hughes, \u201cCoupling terahertz radiation between sub-wavelength metal-metal waveguides and free space using monolithically integrated horn antennae,\u201d 17(20), 18387 (2009). While each of these approaches improved the beam quality, the first four required individual microassembly by hand, which are not inherently mass-manufacturable in an economic and scalable parallel fabrication process, and the last still couples to multiple modes.","While some of these previous approaches (in particular the 3order DFB) are beginning to provide reasonable coupling to free space, none of these are good for guiding THz radiation intra-chip to couple to other THz devices. Such THz photonic integrated circuits (ICs) would help close the THz technology gap between microwave electronics and infrared photonics, which currently have much greater functionality because they already integrate multiple devices on the same chip. Traditional waveguides fabricated on semiconductor platforms, such as dielectric guides in the infrared or co-planar waveguides in the microwave regions, suffer high absorption and radiative losses in the THz. The former leads to very short propagation lengths, while the latter leads to unwanted radiation modes and\/or crosstalk in integrated devices. For this reason the waveguide of choice at these frequencies are metallic, hollow, rectangular waveguides. For the most part, these waveguides are fabricated in two halves which are sandwiched together to form the enclosed space. As frequencies exceed 1 THz traditional machining becomes much more difficult and prohibitively expensive for broad use, thus micromachining techniques are being developed. See, e.g., P. L. Kirby, \u201cCharacterization of Micromachined Silicon Rectangular Waveguides at 400 GHz,\u201d 16(3), 366 (2006); and V. Desmaris, \u201cAll-metal micromachining for the fabrication of sub-millimeter and THz waveguide components and circuits,\u201d 18, 095004 (2008). These split blocks require careful insertion of and subsequent connection by hand to active devices. Only a couple efforts have tried to fabricate monolithic waveguides on a chip with or without integrated devices. See J. W. Bowen, \u201cMicromachined waveguide antennas for 1.6 THz,\u201d 42(15), (2006); and H. Kazimi, \u201cActive micromachined integrated terahertz circuits,\u201d 20(5), 967 (1999).","However, a need remains for a laser source monolithically integrated with a hollow waveguide on the same chip. This integration would allow coupling to mature rectangular waveguide components and circuits, guiding the emission of QCL radiation around on a chip and controlling the emission beam pattern and number of radiated modes by controlling the shape of the waveguide and horn antennas coupled to the waveguides. In addition, by altering the geometry of the interface between the laser and rectangular waveguide, the coupling of the QCL to the outside world could be controlled.","The present invention is directed to an integrated quantum cascade laser and hollow waveguide device, comprising a substrate; a hollow waveguide on the substrate; a quantum cascade laser, comprising a waveguided heterostructure active region for generation of laser light, on the substrate; and an interface between an end facet of the quantum cascade laser and an entrance end of the hollow waveguide for coupling of the laser light from the quantum cascade laser into the hollow waveguide or for coupling external light from the hollow waveguide into the quantum cascade laser. For example, the interface can comprise an abrupt transition, a stepped transition, or a tapered transition to control the impedance mismatch between the quantum cascade laser and the hollow waveguide. For example, the interface can be adapted to match the impedance of the quantum cascade laser to the impedance of the hollow waveguide, match the laser facet loss to the laser cavity loss to improve the efficiency of the quantum cascade laser, or to optimize the output power of the quantum cascade laser.","As an example of the present invention, integration of THz QCLs with single-mode 75 \u03bcm\u00d737 \u03bcm rectangular waveguide components, including horn antennas, couplers, and bends, for operation at 3 THz were designed and fabricated using thick gold micromachining. Measurements on the isolated waveguide components exhibited fairly low loss and integration with THz QCLs was demonstrated. The successful integration of THz QCLs with micromachined waveguides on the same chip, along with other passive waveguide components, such as tees and couplers, enables integrated THz-circuits-on-a-chip. Further, this technology enables coupling between the QCL and the outside world.","The present invention is directed to the integration of a QCL with a hollow waveguide to improve the laser beam pattern with a manufacturable method. For example, by coupling the QCL output into a single-mode rectangular waveguide (RWG) the radiation mode structure will be known and the propagation, manipulation, and broadcast of the QCL radiation can then be entirely controlled by well-established RWG techniques. Further, many existing mixers are already embedded in RWG blocks. By integrating a QCL into a compatible block, the QCLs can be mated more quickly with this existing technology and infrastructure, thereby providing a more compact and robust system than using quasi-optics. Integrating QCLs into RWGs also enables complete on-chip THz circuits.","Because typical QCL frequencies are greater than 1 THz, the dimensions of single-mode rectangular waveguide at these wavelengths are on the order of tens of microns. While such small THz waveguides can be made by traditional metal machining, traditional machining is typically expensive, slow, and difficult to reconcile with the electrical connections needed to support high DC bias currents required to operate a QCL embedded in such a waveguide. See P. Siegel et al., \u201c2.5-THz GaAs Monolithic Membrane-Diode Mixer,\u201d 47(5), 596 (1999).","Therefore, the present invention can use a lithographic micromachining method to fabricate small, single-mode rectangular waveguide structures. Such a micromachining method has the advantage of being amenable to large-scale production and can be tailored to suit the unique demands of a QCL source. The traditional rectangular waveguide method comprises fabricating two halves of a waveguide block and separately bolting them together, as was recently demonstrated with similar multi-layer lithographic techniques at lower frequencies. See V. Desmaris et al., \u201cAll-metal micromachining for the fabrication of sub-millimeter and THz waveguide components and circuits,\u201d 18, 095004 (2008). However, because most QCLs are edge emitters with a surface-normal E-field polarization, the integrated waveguide preferably has the short wall in a direction normal to the substrate, which reduces the required height but places any wafer bonds in high-current areas. Because of this, and to ensure good coverage over surface topography, the present invention uses monolithic waveguides fabricated directly onto the laser chips.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","15","10","11","12","13","19","12","13"],"i":"Nature "},"The back wall  and the top and side walls  of the hollow waveguide  can also be a metal, such as gold, or doped semiconductor. A transparent insulator , such as SiOor SiN, can be applied conformally to the end facet  of the laser  to electrically isolate the laser from the waveguide walls. The hollow waveguide  is preferably a rectangular shape, although other shapes can also be used. A rectangular waveguide will be used in the example devices described hereinafter. The waveguide  can bend or be straight. The waveguide  is preferably single-mode, although multi-mode waveguides can be used for some applications.","Metal-metal waveguided QCLs have better heat extraction and lower threshold currents than plasmon waveguide devices. However, due to the impedance mismatch between the laser and free-space at the end facet, little power couples out of these types of devices. By lowering the impedance mismatch, more power can be extracted. By changing the interface at the end facet between the laser and the waveguide this trade-off can be engineered for the application at hand. By controlling the impedance mismatch, the performance of the laser can be altered in important ways. For example, the interface can be adapted to match the impedance of the quantum cascade laser to the impedance of the hollow waveguide. Complete impedance matching can be used to enable broad band tuning of the QCL output with external feedback, such as provided by an external cavity. Further, the impedance mismatch can be tuned to maximize the efficiency of the laser (typically done by setting the facet loss equal to the cavity loss), or to increase the output power of the QCL by lowering the facet reflectivity. Since the waveguide of a metal-metal THz QCL is essentially a microstripline, microwave techniques can be borrowed to engineer the impedance mismatch between the QCL and a metallic hollow rectangular waveguide. The impedance between the QCL and the embedding entrance end of the rectangular waveguide can be engineered in various ways, for example by creating a stepped fin-line structure with \u00bc-wave transformers or by tapering the laser facet as it enters the waveguide, as will be further described below.","QCLs can provide lots of power and very narrow linewidths which are both excellent for spectroscopy, communication, or RADAR\/SAR type applications. Unfortunately, even though the lasers have an intrinsic bandwidth greater than 300 GHz, a stand-alone laser emits only a specific frequency (or a few frequencies) that can typically only be tuned by a few GHz. A typical approach to tune lasers used at shorter NIR and VIS wavelengths is to use an external cavity to tune the laser. This requires that at least one of the laser facets be impedance matched (or nearly matched) so that light can leave the laser and be focused back into the laser so that the external cavity will define the laser frequency. Because the mode shape in THz QCLs does not approximate a Gaussian, standard thin films applied to the facets will not provide a perfect antireflection coating. In addition, since the laser facet is small compared to a wavelength, much of the light that is coupled out will not couple back into the laser. Thus stand-alone THz QCLs do not couple well to external cavities. For metal-metal waveguides these problems are much worse. Both problems can be addressed by coupling the QCL to a rectangular waveguide. With a proper interface geometry, the impedance can be matched so there will be no reflection and the out-coupling and in-coupling will be much better because a horn antenna attached to the waveguide can be much larger than the facet and also larger than a wavelength and can be engineered to provide a good beam shape. Thus a waveguide-coupled QCL is a perfect device for external cavity tuning the QCL. This enables tuning of the emission frequency over the whole gain bandwidth of the laser.","In addition, this integration enables the use of the QCL gain medium as an amplifier. If either of the end facets of the QCL is impedance matched, the resulting loss of feedback will prevent lasing, but any radiation within the wide frequency bandwidth of the gain that is injected and propagates through the structure will be amplified. There are other sources of THz radiation that are broadly tunable, but they produce a very small amount of THz power. By impedance matching one or both ends of the QCL and then focusing light from an external weak source into the waveguide on one end, the light will propagate through the active region and be amplified and emitted out the other end. By tuning the weak source and amplifying it with the QCL active material, significantly higher powers of tunable THz radiation can be generated.","The fabrication of a rectangular waveguide can use multi-layer lithography. See Nordquist et al., \u201cDesign, Fabrication, and Characterization of Metal Micromachined Rectangular Waveguides at 3 THz,\u201d 2008 ., (2008); and Rowen et al., \u201cMulti-layer metal micromachining for THz waveguide fabrication,\u201d 7590, 759009 (2010); which are incorporated herein by reference. A schematic end-view illustration of an exemplary fabrication method is shown in . Each layer of the fabrication method comprises depositing a seed metal, creating a mold in photoresist, and electroplating metal into the mold to fill the openings in the resist. The fabrication method can be applied to any relatively planar surface. As shown in , an electrically conducting seed layer  is deposited on a substrate  to facilitate the subsequent buildup of the waveguide side walls. For the purposes of creating the waveguide the substrate  can be any material (e.g., glass, silicon, or GaAs). For example, fully integrated waveguides can be fabricated on GaAs substrates. Stand alone waveguides can be fabricated on a bare silicon substrate. The seed layer  is conductive and can range in thickness from a few tens of nanometers to microns. For example, the seed layer can be a layered stack of titanium and gold. To provide good adhesion and low waveguide losses the seed layer can be 1 micron of gold on top of 20 nm of titanium. Next, a first photoresist layer  is deposited on the seed layer. The photoresist can be a negative or positive photoresist. A lithographic process can be used to pattern the photoresist  to provide openings  for a side wall mold. Patterning the first photoresist layer  defines the height and directionality of the waveguide side walls , and also provides a platform for the second lithographic step. For example, the height of the side walls can be 30-40 \u03bcm. Longer wavelengths require larger waveguides with higher side walls. The impedance can be tuned by changing the height and width of the waveguide. As shown in , the side wall material  can be electrodeposited into openings  in the photoresist mold. For example, the deposited waveguide material can be gold. A gold sulfite chemistry can be used for the electroplating process, comprising a separate make up, replenisher, and brightener. As shown in , a second seed layer  can be deposited on the planarized first layer. A waveguide lid can be defined by patterning a second photoresist layer  and electroplating the lid layer  into the opening in the patterned photoresist layer. As shown in , the photoresist layers  and  and the second seed layer  can be removed to provide a hollow channel  within the rectangular waveguide . Removing the photoresist from the outside of the waveguide after electroplating is straight forward. Resist removal from inside of the waveguide can be more difficult. Therefore, release holes (visible in ) can be provided along the length of the waveguide lid  to enable removal of the resist from the inside of the waveguide channel. Alternatively, some resists can be used that do not require release holes, even for small dimensions. A solvent can be used for stripping the resist inside of the waveguide. Mega sonic agitation can be applied to the solvent to help strip the resist throughout the entire length of the waveguide channel.","Rectangular waveguides have not been extensively studied and characterized for frequencies much above 1 THz. Therefore, the free-space-coupling characteristics of empty stand-alone waveguides were examined before integrating the waveguides with lasers. Single-mode 75 \u03bcm\u00d737 \u03bcm rectangular waveguides and components, including horn antennas, couplers, and bends, for operation at about 3 THz were designed and fabricated on a bare silicon substrate. These waveguides were designed to couple to free-space using H-plane horn antennas on both ends of the guides. By using identical horn structures on all waveguide variations, the measured differences of THz propagation coupled into and out of the waveguides can be related to the waveguide itself.","A waveguide structure can be designed by scaling from published or reported designs in the microwave frequency range. For the present example, dimensions were determined by shrinking WR-90 X-band (8.2-12.4 GHz) waveguide designs by a factor of 30 to cover the 2.5 THz-3.5 THz bands. The calculated TE10 cutoff frequency was 2 THz, with the TE20 and the TE01 mode cutoff at 4 THz and the TM11 mode cutoff at 4.5 THz. The initial design was simulated using perfect conductor boundary conditions with Ansoft High Frequency Structure Simulator (HFSSTM). The initial design was then adjusted to provide a realistically fabricatable structure. These adjustments included adding release holes, forcing any vertical edge to be straight, and modifying layer widths, thicknesses, and setbacks to reflect fabrication limitations. The waveguide width can be modulated to minimize reflections from the release holes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"]},"An array of empty waveguides was fabricated on a silicon substrate to obtain loss-per-length information. The waveguides were characterized using a molecular gas far-infrared laser source (FIRL). This FIRL source can generate radiation at a set of distinct lines by pumping select gasses with a COlaser, with output powers up to a few 10's of mW's depending on the frequency of operation. Each waveguide had the same number of bends but with lengths ranging from 14.2 mm to 38.6 mm. Data from the waveguides were analyzed to obtain the loss of the waveguides as a function of length.  is a graph of loss vs. difference in length for two different waveguide samples at 3.1 THz (triangles) and 2.56 THz (diamonds). Fitting a straight line to the points on the plot gives a loss of 1.4+\/\u22120.15 dB\/mm, which is equivalent to 0.14 dB\/\u03bb. This experimental loss compares favorably to 0.2 dB\/\u03bb at 100 GHz and 0.6 dB\/\u03bb at 300 GHz for commercially available waveguides. Comparing waveguides with and without bends, a bend loss of 0.15\u00b10.15 dB was estimated.","While assuming a purely real metal boundary condition suffices in the microwave range, there is disagreement as to whether these types of boundary conditions can be used in the 1-3 THz range. At these frequencies, the surface impedance of the metal has a non-negligible imaginary component, given by the Drude model for metal conductivity. A simplified model for this conductivity can be adapted from Zhao:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","dc"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9\u03c4"},"mn":"2"}}},{"mi":"j\u03c9\u03c4","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9\u03c4"},"mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"+"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"dc ","i":["IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. ","Phys. Rev. B "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","s"]},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c9\u03bc","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c3"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"dc","sup":["7","\u22121 ","\u22121"],"i":"Microwave Engineering "},"To determine the impact of the metal conductivity, the loss of a 75 \u03bcm\u00d737 \u03bcm gold rectangular waveguide was calculated and simulated. Using the standard waveguide design and loss equations given by Pozar, the waveguide loss calculated was 4 dB\/cm at 3 THz, assuming the DC conductivity of gold. The simulated loss using HFSS was 6 dB\/cm using the DC conductivity of gold, and 7 dB\/cm using the complex conductivity of gold. The guide wavelength was identical in all cases, suggesting that perfect-E boundary conditions can be used with negligible error during early parts of designs, and that the complex conductivity primarily impacts loss in a predictable way. This is consistent with the observations by Lucyszyn. See S. Lucyszyn, \u201cAccurate cad modeling of metal conduction losses at terahertz frequencies,\u201d 180 (2003). The measured loss was a factor of two higher than the HFSS simulations, which is fairly good agreement, especially since the HFSS results do not take into account possible effects due to surface roughness or contamination.","The interface between the fields propagating in a laser waveguide and the fields in a hollow rectangular waveguide determines the impedance matching of the QCL to the rectangular waveguide. The effective impedance mismatch at this interface between the two separate regions has significant impact on the integrated device performance. If the impedance has a large mismatch, very little power will exit the laser. While this will lead to low output powers, it can also lower the threshold current and probably raise the operation temperature of the laser. If there is no mismatch, there will be no feedback and lasing will cease. In this case, some additional feedback mechanism, such as a distributed feedback grating or an external cavity, can be provided to get lasing again. A possible advantage of using an external grating for feedback is the ability to tune the laser frequency over its entire gain bandwidth. For intermediate values of the mismatch, the optimal power output or the optimal efficiency can be obtained by designing the interface to go between these extremes. The impedance between the QCL and the embedding entrance end of the rectangular waveguide can be engineered in various ways. Examples of exemplary transitions are described below.","In terms of integration and device fabrication, the simplest QCL-WG interface is the abrupt transition, wherein the end facet comprises a vertically etched wall of the laser heterostructure that is perpendicular to the laser axis. For integration with a QCL, a hollow rectangular waveguide can be similarly fabricated on a GaAs substrate with a THz QCL already fabricated on the surface. As an example, a laser was fabricated that was 2000 \u03bcm long, about 10 \u03bcm tall, and 65 \u03bcm wide. The waveguide for the laser itself was a metal-metal type waveguide, which was essentially a microstripline confining the THz radiation of the active region to stay between two metal plates. The hollow channel of the rectangular waveguide was 37 \u03bcm high by 75 \u03bcm wide. The entire laser end facet can be inserted directly into the entrance end of the rectangular waveguide, as illustrated by the example shown in . Although this example uses a vertical end facet, non-vertical etched facets can also be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"Complete coupling occurs when the interface is impedance matched. The key challenge is in the transition from a high-index GaAs-filled parallel-plate or microstrip transmission line with a characteristic impedance of \u02dc35\u03a9 to an air-filled rectangular waveguide with a characteristic impedance of \u02dc360\u03a9. The most practical transition from a microstripline to a rectangular waveguide is a stepped or continuously tapered ridge waveguide (see inset in  for a ridge waveguide cross-section), where the bottom of the narrow ridge couples to the tightly confined microstrip mode of the QCL. See J. Izadian and S. M. Izadian, , Artech House, Norwood, Mass. (1988). The total height of the ridge waveguide is constant, but the ridge width (s in ) becomes shallower and wider as it tapers toward the top of the waveguide. While closed form solutions for ridged waveguides do exist, because of the geometrical constraints and the desire to design a matching network, waveguides were simulated to obtain an understanding of the waveguide impedance as a function of ridge gap (d in ) and width within a waveguide of total dimensions of 75 \u03bcm\u00d737 \u03bcm.  shows that the ridge can be used to vary the waveguide impedance predictably from \u02dc30\u03a9 to the 340\u03a9 of the full-height rectangular waveguide. The lowest impedances were for ridges with narrow gaps, which matched the microstrip field profile well.","To simplify design and fabrication, a 5-section stepped impedance transform was used for the transition. See S. B. Cohn, \u201cOptimum design of stepped transmission-line transformers,\u201d 16 (1955). Using the approach described by Cohn, the desired impedance values were determined to be 35\u03a9 (the microstrip line), 44\u03a9, 79\u03a9, 154\u03a9, 277\u03a9, and 340\u03a9 (the rectangular waveguide). Initial values of width and gap that satisfied these impedances were chosen from , with each segment initially 90\u00b0 at the 2.7 THz center frequency.","Though the stepped transformer interface matches the impedance well, it does not take the field profiles into account, particularly at the laser facet. In order to match the field profile at the laser facet, a single-stage transition from the laser facet to a ridge waveguide of arbitrary impedance was designed. In this method, the impedance of the first stage is set by the ridge waveguide dimensions that best match the laser rather than the impedance defined in the synthesis procedure. Once the impedance of the first stage is defined, the stepped impedance transformer can be used to transition from the first section of waveguide to rectangular waveguide. When this approach was taken, the desired impedance values were 35\u03a9 (the microstrip line), 70\u03a9 (determined through simulations of laser to waveguide), 99\u03a9, 157\u03a9, 249\u03a9, and 340\u03a9 (the rectangular waveguide).","The structure was then simulated in HFSS and optimized (primarily the matching lengths) for >15 dB return loss from 2.5 THz to 3.0 THz. The best dimensions for the structure are summarized in Table 1, with stage 0 as the laser and stage 5 as the rectangular waveguide. This particular design was for a laser bar 25 \u03bcm wide. Interestingly, the optimum lengths for the first two stages are far less than the expected \u03bbg\/4. Note that the ridge width, s, is constant in this design, and only the gap, d, varies. In general, either s or d can be varied or both s and d can be varied.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Dimensions from THz QCL-WG Stepped Matching Network"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Stage","Z","d (\u03bcm)","s (\u03bcm)","L (\u03bcm)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["0","35","\u2014","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":["1","70","4","4","16.6"]},{"entry":["2","99","8","4","20.7"]},{"entry":["3","157","16","4","31.9"]},{"entry":["4","249","26","4","31.5"]},{"entry":["5","340","\u2014","37","\u2014"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The final simulated structure is illustrated in , showing the QCL  comprising a top waveguide layer  and end facet ; hollow rectangular waveguide  comprising a top wall , stepped ridge waveguide transition ; and stages 0-5. In general, the stepped ridge waveguide  can comprise a good electrical conductor, such as a metal. To ease fabrication, the ridge waveguide can be the same material as the waveguide, such as gold in the present example.","The simulated return loss and sensitivity to manufacturing tolerances is shown in . In particular, the design is very sensitive to the gap of the ridge waveguide section nearest the laser. The transition is less sensitive to the width, while the length of the sections shifts the frequency of best match.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["44","40","46","45"]},"The simulated transmission as a function of the length of the dielectric extension into the waveguide is shown in . The maximum transmission occurs at a length of 40 \u03bcm, which is approximately \u03bb\/2 in the dielectric-loaded waveguide. At the peak the facet transmission nears unity.","The expansion of the E-field is shown in . The field spot size gradually grows from the confined microstrip mode of the laser to the large mode of the rectangular waveguide. There is additional complexity at the interface and within the dielectric which is not clear from the image, but results in electric and magnetic fields that are locally directed along the direction of propagation in the vicinity of the interface. This elegant design has the distinct appealing advantage of requiring only a single processing step to define the waveguide transition region, showing transmission of up to 98% in a very simple design.","A variety of integrations of QCL lasers and waveguide components were fabricated on a chip as examples of the present invention. All of the lasers were the same and were 2000 \u03bcm long, \u02dc10 \u03bcm tall, and 65 \u03bcm wide. The internal region of the rectangular waveguide was 37 \u03bcm high by 75 \u03bcm wide. The variations on this chip explored the insertion position dependence, waveguide length, H-plane and E-plane bends, magic tees and horns.","The pulsed light-current-voltage (L-I-V) relation of the integrated laser with a waveguide (HS), and another laser on the same chip without a waveguide (NH) are compared in . The sample chip was cooled in a cryostat to 4\u00b0 K. The emitted THz radiation passed through a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer to measure the spectra and was detected with a Si bolometer. The response of the bolometer was calibrated at this frequency, allowing an estimate of the peak power uncorrected for collection efficiency. The output powers for these two lasers were comparable to normal metal-metal waveguided lasers with similar laser material and comparable with each other, suggesting that the waveguides do not negatively impact power output.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIGS. 14B and 14C","FIG. 14C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 17A","FIG. 17B","FIG. 17C","FIG. 17D"]},"A variety of components can be integrated on-chip with the QCL-waveguide to enable THz photonic integrated circuits, as shown schematically in . The ability to make additional passive waveguide components, such as splitters, combiners, tees, couplers, bends, etc., with the lithographic process enables complete THz photonic integrated circuits on a chip, whereby signals can be split, combined, and directed between multiple active components on the same chip.","For example, a horn  can be coupled to the open end of the waveguide  opposite the quantum cascade laser . The horn  can provide a nearly Gaussian far-field beam pattern of the laser light  extracted from the QCL which is good for coupling the QCL power to other components or for long distance propagation in free space.","Alternatively, external light  can be coupled from free space into the horn , which can increase coupling of external light into the quantum cascade laser by orders of magnitude, since the horn aperture can be large enough to collect all the incoming light. The external light coupled into the QCL can comprise return laser light  that was previously emitted by the QCL . This return laser light can be used to control the frequency of the quantum cascade laser. Alternatively, the external light coupled into the laser can originate from an external terahertz light source . The external terahertz light source  can comprise another quantum cascade laser, harmonic frequency upconverters pumped by microwave sources, or other means. The external light can be coupled into and amplified by the gain medium of the quantum cascade laser .","A second hollow waveguide  can be fabricated on the same substrate, wherein laser light from the other end of the quantum cascade laser  is coupled into the second hollow waveguide . This is a preferred arrangement when using the QCL gain medium as an amplifier or as the local oscillator for a heterodyne transceiver. In the case of an amplifier, providing a one-way pass of the injected radiation (especially when the interfaces are impedance matched) reduces or eliminates reflections that can feedback into the pumping source. In the case of a transceiver, the laser emission from one end facet of the QCL can be sent to a mixer detector, while the emission  for the other end facet can be sent off chip to transmit signals or interrogate targets.","An active device  can be provided on the same chip with the QCL-waveguide, wherein a waveguide couples laser light from the QCL  to the active device . Alternatively, the waveguide can couple external light from the active device  into the quantum cascade laser . In addition, waveguides can couple both the QCL light and externally generated light into the active device, which can be a heterodyne receiver. If the active device  is on the same chip, it can be coupled to the waveguide directly without a horn (as shown).","The present invention has been described as integration of a quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, describe the invention. In the drawings, like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIGS. 14B and 14C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 17A","FIG. 17B","FIG. 17C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
