---
title: Beam pen lithography
abstract: The disclosure relates to methods of beam pen lithography using a tip array having a plurality of transparent, elastomeric, reversibly-deformable tips coated with a blocking layer and apertures defined in the blocking layer to expose tip ends of the tips in the array. The tip array can be used to perform a photolithography process in which the tips are illuminated with a radiation that is channeled through the tips and out the apertures to expose a photosensitive substrate. Also disclosed are tip arrays formed of polymers and gels, apparatus including the tip arrays and radiation sources, and related apparatus for selectively masking tips in the tip array from radiation emitted from the radiation source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021611&OS=09021611&RS=09021611
owner: Northwestern University
number: 09021611
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100218
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLES","REFERENCES"],"p":["The benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/153,400, filed Feb. 18, 2009, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/153,389, filed Feb. 18, 2009, is hereby claimed, and their entire disclosures are incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with U.S. government support under Grant No. EEC-0647560 awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF\/NSEC), Grant No. FA9550-08-0124 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR), and Grant No. N66001-08-2044 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The government has certain rights in this invention.","The demand for nanoscale components in integrated circuits, medical diagnostics, and optoelectronics has generated much interest in the development and study of various lithography strategies (1-5). With conventional far-field optical lithography, however, lateral feature resolution is diffraction-limited, as defined by the Rayleigh or Abb\u00e9 conditions, which in practical terms only allow feature dimensions of approximately half the incident wavelength (6). In order to overcome the diffraction limit, a number of lithography approaches have been reported, including multi-photon induced photoresist polymerization (7-9), zone-plate array lithography (10, 11), and phase-shift photolithography (12). Though these techniques are highly parallel, they rely on non-standard optical instrumentation and light sources not readily available to most researchers, or preclude arbitrary nanoscale pattern formation. In order to produce complex patterns, established approaches including electron-beam lithography, focused ion beam (FIB) lithography, and scanning probe microscopy (SPM)-based techniques such as dip-pen nanolithography (DPN) (13, 14) have been employed. Near-field scanning optical microscopy (NSOM)-based techniques and scanning near-field photolithography (SNP) are promising custom lithographic methods for sub-diffraction limit patterning, but are inherently low throughput and restricted to scan areas several hundred microns in length (15-17).","In order to generate sub-diffraction limit features, SNP optics rely on the evanescent field of incident light passing through an aperture, the intensity of which is strongly dependent on the distance between this aperture and the surface. To control precise aperture heights and lateral registry, SNP relies on feedback systems used in piezo-controlled SPM instruments (17). Though highly parallel two-dimensional (2D) silicon-based NSOM aperture arrays have been fabricated (18), aligning a large area substrate surface with near-field proximity to this hard non-deformable aperture array remains challenging. As a result, no successful demonstrations of their use in homogeneous patterning have been reported.","Transparent PDMS stamps have been used to control light propagation in the context of surface patterning (20, 21). This approach does not allow for the fabrication of sub-diffraction limit features in arbitrary geometries.","In one aspect, a method for sub-micron scale patterning includes contacting a photosensitive substrate with a tip array described herein. The tip array can include a tip substrate layer, a plurality of tips fixed to a first surface of the tip substrate layer and having a tip end disposed opposite the first surface, a blocking layer coated on the first surface of the substrate layer including the plurality of tips, and a plurality of apertures defined in the blocking layer exposing the tip ends of the plurality of tips. The tip substrate layer and the plurality of tips are at least translucent, e.g. permitting transmission of light of a desired wavelength for patterning. The tip substrate layer and plurality of tips preferably are elastomeric. The method further includes illuminating at least one tip of the tip array with radiation. The radiation is channeled through the transparent polymer and out the tip end exposed by the aperture, to expose a portion of the photosensitive substrate. The exposed portion of the photosensitive substrate can have a dot size (or line width) of preferably less than 1 \u03bcm.","In another aspect, a tip array includes a tip substrate layer comprising a first surface and an oppositely disposed second surface, a plurality of tips fixed to the first surface, the tips each comprising a tip end disposed opposite the first surface. The tip substrate layer and the plurality of tips are at least translucent, e.g. permitting transmission of light of a desired wavelength for patterning. The tip substrate layer and plurality of tips preferably are elastomeric. The tip array further includes a blocking layer coated on the plurality of tips and the first surface of the tip substrate and a plurality of apertures defined in the blocking layer exposing the tip ends of the plurality of tips.","In another aspect, a method of making a beam pen lithography tip array includes providing tip array comprising a tip substrate layer comprising a first surface, an oppositely disposed second surface, a plurality of tips fixed to the first surface, the tips each comprising a tip end disposed opposite the first surface, coating a blocking layer on the plurality of tips and the first surface; and forming an aperture in the blocking layer at the tip ends of the tips by removing a portion of the blocking layer.","The method can include forming the tip array by forming a master comprising an array of recesses in a substrate separated by lands, filling the recesses and covering the lands with a prepolymer mixture comprising a prepolymer and, optionally, a crosslinker, curing the prepolymer mixture to form a polymer structure, and separating the cured polymer structure from the master.","The method can include removing a portion of the blocking layer by any suitable method, including mechanical removal (e.g., fracturing or ion beam ablation), chemical removal, or a combination of mechanical and chemical operations. In one embodiment, the portion of the blocking layer can be removed by contacting the coated portion of the polymer structure to a surface coated with an adhesive, and then moving the coated polymer structure and adhesive surface away from each other to separate an adhered portion of the blocking layer from the cured polymer structure. In another embodiment, the portion of the blocking layer can be removed by coating an adhesive on the blocking layer, and removing at least a portion of the adhesive by contacting the coated polymer structure to a surface, wherein upon removal of the polymer structure from the surface, the contacted portion of the adhesive remains on the surface to define an opening in the adhesive, exposing a portion of the blocking layer. The coated polymer structure can then be etched to remove the exposed portion of the blocking layer and thereby expose a portion of the polymer structure.","Another aspect is a system for beam pen lithography that includes a radiation source for emitting a radiation in a path and a tip array as describe herein disposed in the path with the radiation being incident upon the tip substrate layer. The tip array can be operatively coupled to the radiation source.","Beam Pen Lithography (BPL) can allow for patterning of sub-micron features over large areas with flexible pattern design, convenient, selective pen tip addressability, and low fabrication cost. As compared to conventional photolithography or contact printing in which only pre-formed patterns (i.e. photomasks) can be duplicated, BPL can provide the flexibility to create different patterns by controlling the movement of a tip array  over the substrate and\/or by selectively illuminating one or more of the pen tips  in the tip array . Thus, multiple \u201cdots\u201d, for example, can be fabricated to achieve arbitrary features. This approach bypasses the need for, and costs associated with, photomask fabrication in conventional photolithography, allowing one to arbitrarily make many different types of structures without the hurdle of designing a new master via a throughput-impeded serial process.","Referring to , an embodiment of BPL generally includes contacting a photosensitive substrate, for example, a substrate having a photosensitive layer  coated thereon with a tip array  and irradiating a surface of a tip array  with a radiation source, such as, for example, UV light. The tip array  includes a plurality of tips . The tips  are formed from a material which is at least translucent to the wavelength of radiation intended for use in patterning, e.g. in a range of 300 nm to 600 nm, and preferably the tips  are transparent to such light. Each tip can have a blocking layer  disposed thereon, with an aperture  defined in the blocking layer  and exposing the tip end. The blocking layer  serves as a radiation blocking layer , channeling the radiation through the material of the tip and out the exposed tip end. The tips  can be used to both channel the radiation to a surface in a massively parallel scanning probe lithographic process and to control one or more parameters such as the distance between the tip and the substrate, and the degree of tip deformation. Control of such parameters can allow one to take advantage of near-field effects. In one embodiment, the tips  are elastomeric and reversibly deformable, which can allow the tip array  to be brought in contact with the substrate without damage to the substrate or the tip array . This contact can ensure the generation of near-field effects.","BPL Tip Array","Referring to FIGS. B and A-D, an embodiment of a BPL tip array  includes a tip substrate layer  (see ) and a plurality of tips  (see ) fixed to the tip substrate layer . The tip substrate layer  and the plurality of tips  are formed of a transparent polymer. The tip substrate layer  and the tips  can be formed of the same polymer or can be formed of different polymers. The tip array  further includes a blocking layer  coated on the sidewalls of the tips  and on the portions of the tip substrate layer  between adjacent tips . Referring to , an aperture  is defined in the blocking layer  at the tip end (e.g., the photosensitive layer -contacting end of each of the tips ), such that the transparent polymer tip end is exposed through the aperture .","The tip substrate layer  can have any suitable thickness, for example in a range of about 50 \u03bcm to about 5 mm, about 50 \u03bcm to about 100 \u03bcm, or about 1 mm to about 5 mm. For example, the tip substrate layer  can have a minimum thickness of about 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, or 5000 \u03bcm. For example, the tip substrate layer  can have a maximum thickness of about 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, or 5000 \u03bcm. The thickness of the tip substrate layer can be decreased as the rigidity of the polymer used to form the tip substrate layer increases. For example, for a gel polymer (e.g., agarose), the tip substrate layer can have a thickness in a range of about 1 mm to about 5 mm. For other, more rigid, polymers (e.g., PDMS) the tip substrate layer can have a thickness in a range of about 50 \u03bcm to about 100 \u03bcm, for example. The combined thickness of the tip substrate layer  and the tips  can be in range of about 50 \u03bcm to about 5 mm. For example, for a gel polymer (e.g., agarose), the combined thickness can be up to about 5 mm. For example, for other polymers (e.g., PDMS) the combined thickness can be less than about 200 \u03bcm, preferably less than about 150 \u03bcm, or more preferably about 100 \u03bcm.","The tip substrate layer  can be attached to a transparent rigid support, for example, formed from glass, silicon, quartz, ceramic, polymer, or any combination thereof. The rigid support is preferably highly rigid and has a highly planar surface upon which to mount the tip array .","The tip arrays are non-cantilevered and comprise tips  which can be designed to have any shape or spacing (pitch) between them, as needed. The shape of each tip can be the same or different from other tips  of the array, and preferably the tips  have a common shape. Contemplated tip shapes include spheroid, hemispheroid, toroid, polyhedron, cone, cylinder, and pyramid (trigonal or square). The tips  have a base portion fixed to the tip substrate layer . The base portion preferably is larger than the tip end portion. The base portion can have an edge length in a range of about 1 \u03bcm to about 50 \u03bcm, or about 5 \u03bcm to about 50 \u03bcm. For example, the minimum edge length can be about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, or 50 \u03bcm. For example, the maximum edge length can be about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, or 50 \u03bcm.","Referring to , a preferred tip array  contains thousands of tips , preferably having a pyramidal shape. The substrate-contacting (tip end) portions of the tips  each can have a diameter in a range of about 50 nm to about 1 \u03bcm. For example, the minimum diameter can be about 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, or 1000 nm. For example, the minimum diameter can be about 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, or 1000 nm. The substrate-contacting portions of the tips  are preferably sharp, so that each is suitable for forming submicron patterns, e.g., less than about 500 nm. The sharpness of the tip is measured by its radius of curvature. The tips  can have a radius of curvature, for example, of below about 1 \u03bcm, and can be less than about 0.9 \u03bcm, less than about 0.8 \u03bcm, less than about 0.7 \u03bcm, less than about 0.6 \u03bcm, less than about 0.5 \u03bcm, less than about 0.4 \u03bcm, less than about 0.3 \u03bcm, less than about 0.2 \u03bcm, less than about 0.1 \u03bcm, less than about 90 nm, less than about 80 nm, less than about 70 nm, less than about 60 nm, or less than about 50 nm.","The tip-to-tip spacing between adjacent tips  (tip pitch) can be in a range of about 1 \u03bcm to about over 10 mm, or about 20 \u03bcm to about 1 mm. For example, the minimum tip-to-tip spacing can be about 1 \u03bcm, 2 \u03bcm, 3 \u03bcm, 4 \u03bcm, 5 \u03bcm, 6 \u03bcm, 7 \u03bcm, 8 \u03bcm, 9 \u03bcm, 10 \u03bcm, 15 \u03bcm, 20 \u03bcm, 25 \u03bcm, 30 \u03bcm, 35 \u03bcm, 40 \u03bcm, 45 \u03bcm, 50 \u03bcm, 55 \u03bcm, 60 \u03bcm, 65 \u03bcm, 70 \u03bcm, 75 \u03bcm, 80 \u03bcm, 85 \u03bcm, 90 \u03bcm, 95 \u03bcm, 100 \u03bcm, 200 \u03bcm, 300 \u03bcm, 400 \u03bcm, 500 \u03bcm, 600 \u03bcm, 700 \u03bcm, 800 \u03bcm, 900 \u03bcm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, 5 mm, 6 mm, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm, or 10 mm. For example, the maximum tip-to-tip spacing can be about 1 \u03bcm, 2 \u03bcm, 3 \u03bcm, 4 \u03bcm, 5 \u03bcm, 6 \u03bcm, 7 \u03bcm, 8 \u03bcm, 9 \u03bcm, 10 \u03bcm, 15 \u03bcm, 20 \u03bcm, 25 \u03bcm, 30 \u03bcm, 35 \u03bcm, 40 \u03bcm, 45 \u03bcm, 50 \u03bcm, 55 \u03bcm, 60 \u03bcm, 65 \u03bcm, 70 \u03bcm, 75 \u03bcm, 80 \u03bcm, 85 \u03bcm, 90 \u03bcm, 95 \u03bcm, 100 \u03bcm, 200 \u03bcm, 300 \u03bcm, 400 \u03bcm, 500 \u03bcm, 600 \u03bcm, 700 \u03bcm, 800 \u03bcm, 900 \u03bcm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, 5 mm, 6 mm, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm, or 10 mm.","The tips  of the tip array  can be designed to have any desired thickness, but typically the thickness of the tip array  is about 50 nm to about 50 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 1 \u03bcm, about 10 \u03bcm to about 50 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 500 nm, about 50 nm to about 400 nm, about 50 nm to about 300 nm, about 50 nm to about 200 nm, or about 50 nm to about 100 nm. For example, the minimum thickness can be about 50 nm, 60 nm, 70 nm, 80 nm, 90 nm, 100 nm, 200 nm, 300 nm, 400 nm, 500 nm, 600 nm, 700 nm, 800 nm, 900 nm, 1 \u03bcm, 5 \u03bcm, 10 \u03bcm, 15 \u03bcm, 20 \u03bcm, 25 \u03bcm, 30 \u03bcm, 35 \u03bcm, 40 \u03bcm, 45 \u03bcm, or 50 \u03bcm. For example, the maximum thickness can be about 50 nm, 60 nm, 70 nm, 80 nm, 90 nm, 100 nm, 200 nm, 300 nm, 400 nm, 500 nm, 600 nm, 700 nm, 800 nm, 900 nm, 1 \u03bcm, 5 \u03bcm, 10 \u03bcm, 15 \u03bcm, 20 \u03bcm, 25 \u03bcm, 30 \u03bcm, 35 \u03bcm, 40 \u03bcm, 45 \u03bcm, or 50 \u03bcm. The thickness of the tip array  can be decreased as the rigidity of the polymer used to form the tip substrate layer increases. For example, for a gel polymer (e.g., agarose), the tip array  can have a thickness in a range of about 10 \u03bcm to about 50 \u03bcm. For other polymers (e.g., PDMS), for example, the tip array  can have a thickness of about 50 nm to about 1 \u03bcm. As used herein, the thickness of the tip array  refers to the distance from the tip end to the base end of a tip. The tips  can be arranged randomly or in a regular periodic pattern (e.g., in columns and rows, in a circular pattern, or the like).","The blocking layer  on the polymer tip sidewalls serves as a radiation blocking layer , allowing the radiation illuminated on a surface of the substrate layer opposite the surface to which the tips  are fixed to be emitted only through the tip end exposed by the aperture  defined in the blocking layer . As shown in , the exposure of a substrate pre-coated with a resist layer  with the radiation channeled through the tip ends  of the tip array  can allow for the formation of a single dot per tip for each exposure. The blocking layer  can be formed of any material suitable for blocking (e.g., reflecting) a type of radiation used in the lithography process. For example, the blocking layer  can be a metal, such as gold, when used with UV light. Other suitable blocking layers include, but are not limited to, gold, chromium, titanium, silver, copper, nickel, silicon, aluminum, opaque organic molecules and polymers, and combinations thereof. The blocking layer  can have any suitable thickness, for example in a range of about 40 nm to about 500 nm. For example, the minimum thickness can be about 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, or 500 nm. For example, the maximum thickness can be about 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, or 500 nm.","Polymeric materials suitable for use in the tip array  can have linear or branched backbones, and can be crosslinked or non-crosslinked, depending upon the particular polymer and the degree of compressibility desired for the tip. Cross-linkers refer to multi-functional monomers capable of forming two or more covalent bonds between polymer molecules. Non-limiting examples of cross-linkers include such as trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate (TMPTMA), divinylbenzene, di-epoxies, tri-epoxies, tetra-epoxies, di-vinyl ethers, tri-vinyl ethers, tetra-vinyl ethers, and combinations thereof.","Thermoplastic or thermosetting polymers can be used, as can crosslinked elastomers. In general, the polymers can be porous and\/or amorphous. A variety of elastomeric polymeric materials are contemplated, including polymers of the general classes of silicone polymers and epoxy polymers. Polymers having low glass transition temperatures such as, for example, below 25\u00b0 C. or more preferably below \u221250\u00b0 C., can be used. Diglycidyl ethers of bisphenol A can be used, in addition to compounds based on aromatic amine, triazine, and cycloaliphatic backbones. Another example includes Novolac polymers. Other contemplated elastomeric polymers include methylchlorosilanes, ethylchlorosilanes, and phenylchlorosilanes, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). Other materials include polyethylene, polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyurethane, polyisoprene, polyacrylic rubber, fluorosilicone rubber, and fluoroelastomers.","Further examples of suitable polymers that may be used to form a tip can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,776,748; 6,596,346; and 6,500,549, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable polymers include those disclosed by He et al., 2003, 19, 6982-6986; Donzel et al., 2001, 13, 1164-1167; and Martin et al., 1998, 14-15, 3791-3795. Hydrophobic polymers such as polydimethylsiloxane can be modified either chemically or physically by, for example, exposure to a solution of a strong oxidizer or to an oxygen plasma.","The polymer of the tip array  can be a polymer gel. The gel polymer can comprise any suitable gel, including hydrogels and organogels. For example, the polymer gel can be a silicon hydrogel, a branched polysaccharide gel, an unbranched polysaccharide gel, a polyacrylamide gel, a polyethylene oxide gel, a cross-linked polyethylene oxide gel, a poly(2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propanesulfonic acid) (polyAMPS) gel, a polyvinylpyrrolidone gel, a cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone gel, a methylcellulose gel, a hyaluronan gel, and combinations thereof. For example, the polymer gel can be an agarose gel. By weight, gels are mostly liquid, for example the gel can be greater than 95% liquid, yet behave like a solid due to the presence of a cross-linked network within the liquid.","The material used to form the tip array  has a suitable compression modulus and surface hardness to prevent collapse of the tip during contact with the surface, but too high a modulus and too great a surface hardness can lead to a brittle material that cannot adapt and conform to a substrate surface during exposure. As disclosed in Schmid, et al., 33:3042 (2000), vinyl and hydrosilane prepolymers can be tailored to provide polymers of different modulus and surface hardness. Thus, in another type of embodiment, the polymer can be a mixture of vinyl and hydrosilane prepolymers, wherein the weight ratio of vinyl prepolymer to hydrosilane crosslinker is about 5:1 to about 20:1, about 7:1 to about 15:1, or about 8:1 to about 12:1.","The material used to form the tip array  preferably will have a surface hardness of about 0.2% to about 3.5% of glass, as measured by resistance of a surface to penetration by a hard sphere with a diameter of 1 mm, compared to the resistance of a glass surface (as described in Schmid, et al., 33:3042 (2000) at p 3044). The surface hardness optionally can be about 0.3% to about 3.3%, about 0.4% to about 3.2%, about 0.5% to about 3.0%, or about 0.7% to about 2.7% of glass. The polymers of the tip array  can have a compression modulus of about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa. The tip array  preferably comprises a compressible polymer which is Hookean under pressures of about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa. The linear relationship between pressure exerted on the tip array  and the feature size allows for control of the near field and feature size using the disclosed methods and tip arrays (see ).","BPL Tip Array Formation","The tip portion of the tip arrays can be made with a master prepared by conventional photolithography and subsequent wet chemical etching. The mold can be engineered to contain as many tips  arrayed in any fashion desired. The tips  of the tip array  can be any number desired, and contemplated numbers of tips  include about 1000 tips  to about 15 million tips, or greater. The number of tips  of the tip array  can be greater than about 1 million, greater than about 2 million, greater than about 3 million, greater than about 4 million, greater than 5 million tips , greater than 6 million, greater than 7 million, greater than 8 million, greater than 9 million, greater than 10 million, greater than 11 million, greater than 12 million, greater than 13 million, greater than 14 million, or greater than 15 million tips.","Optionally, the tips  can be cleaned, for example, using oxygen plasma, prior to coating with the blocking layer . The blocking layer  can be disposed on the tips  by any suitable process, including coating, for example, spin-coating, the tips  with the blocking layer ","An aperture  in the blocking layer  can be formed by any suitable method, including, for example, focused ion beam (FIB) methods () or using a lift-off method. The lift-off method can be a dry lift off method. Referring to , one suitable approach includes applying an adhesive , such as poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) on top of the blocking layer  of the tip array , and removing a portion of the adhesive  material disposed at the substrate contacting end of the tips  by contacting the tip array  to a clean and flat surface, for example a glass surface. The tips  can then be immersed in an etching solution to remove the exposed portion of the blocking layer  to form the aperture  and expose the material of the tip, e.g. the transparent polymer. The remaining adhesive  material protects the covered surfaces of the blocking layer  from being etched during the etching step. The adhesive can be, for example, PMMA, poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), polyacrylonitrile, and combinations thereof.","Referring to , alternatively, a simple contact approach can be used in which a tip array  having the blocking layer  is brought in contact with a glass slide or other surface coated with an adhesive  material, such as PMMA. Other suitable adhesive  materials include, for example, PMMA, PEG, polyacrylonitrile, and combinations thereof. Upon removal of the pen tip from surface coated with the adhesive  material, the adhesive  material removes the contacted portion of the blocking layer , thereby defining an aperture  and exposing the tip material, e.g. the transparent polymer.","In either of the above described aperture  forming methods, the size of the aperture  formed can be controlled by applying different external forces on the backside of the BPL tip array . As a result of the flexibility of elastomeric tips , the application of force on the backside of the BPL tip array  can be used to control the contact area between the tips  and adhesive  material surface. Referring to , the BPL tip array  can include pyramidal tips , with each pyramid-shaped tip being covered by a gold blocking layer  having a small aperture  defined in the blocking layer  at the very end of the tip. The size of the aperture  does not significantly change from tip to tip. For example, the size of the aperture  can vary less than about 10% from tip to tip. The size of the aperture  can be tailored over the 200 nm to 1 to 10 \u03bcm ranges, for example, by controlling contact force. For example, the aperture  can have a diameter in a range of about 5 nm to about 5 \u03bcm, about 30 nm to about 500 nm, or about 200 nm to about 5 \u03bcm. For example, the minimum aperture  diameter can be about 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, or 5000 nm. For example, the maximum aperture  diameter can be about 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, or 5000 nm. The contact force optionally can be in a range of about 0.002 N to about 0.2N for a 1 cmpen array.","For example, a PDMS array of pyramid-shape tips  can be fabricated by known methods. (17, 20). For example, each pyramid tip can have a square base with a several tens of \u03bcm edge length and can come to a tip that has tip diameter of about 100 nm. The entire array, including tips , can then be cleaned, for example, by oxygen plasma and covered with a blocking layer  (e.g. gold), by a thermal evaporation method, for example. The coating can include, for example, a layer of gold that is about 80 nm thick with an about 5 nm thick Ti adhesion layer. The tip array  is then brought in contact with a glass slide coated with PMMA, an adhesive  material, which subsequently removes the Au\/Ti layer from the PDMS tips  and exposes the underlying transparent PDMS.","Surfaces to be Patterned","The surfaces to pattern by BPL can include any suitable substrate, and preferably one which can be advantageously affected by exposure to radiation. For example, the substrate can be photosensitive or can include a photosensitive layer . For example, the photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer  can be a resist layer. The resist layer can be any known resist material, for example SHIPLEY1805 (MicroChem. Inc.). Other suitable resist materials include, but are not limited to, Shipley1813 (MicroChem. Inc.), Shipley1830 (MicroChem. Inc.), PHOTORESIST AZ1518 (MicroChemicals, Germany), PHOTORESIST AZ5214 (MicroChemicals, Germany), SU-8, and combinations thereof. Other examples of photosensitive materials include, but are not limited to, liquid crystals and metals. For examples, the substrate can include metal salts that can be reduced when exposed to the radiation. Substrates suitable for use in methods disclosed herein include, but are not limited to, metals, alloys, composites, crystalline materials, amorphous materials, conductors, semiconductors, optics, fibers, inorganic materials, glasses, ceramics (e.g., metal oxides, metal nitrides, metal silicides, and combinations thereof), zeolites, polymers, plastics, organic materials, minerals, biomaterials, living tissue, bone, and laminates and combinations thereof. The substrate can be in the form of films, thin films, foils, and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a semiconductor including, but not limited to one or more of: crystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, p-doped silicon, n-doped silicon, silicon oxide, silicon germanium, germanium, gallium arsenide, gallium arsenide phosphide, indium tin oxide, graphene, and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a glass including, but not limited to, one or more of undoped silica glass (SiO), fluorinated silica glass, borosilicate glass, borophosphorosilicate glass, organosilicate glass, porous organosilicate glass, and combinations thereof. The substrate can be a non-planar substrate, including, but not limited to, one or more of pyrolytic carbon, reinforced carbon-carbon composite, a carbon phenolic resin, and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a ceramic including, but not limited to, one or more of silicon carbide, hydrogenated silicon carbide, silicon nitride, silicon carbonitride, silicon oxynitride, silicon oxycarbide, high-temperature reusable surface insulation, fibrous refractory composite insulation tiles, toughened unipiece fibrous insulation, low-temperature reusable surface insulation, advanced reusable surface insulation, and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a flexible material, including, but not limited to one or more of: a plastic, a metal, a composite thereof, a laminate thereof, a thin film thereof, a foil thereof, and combinations thereof.","The photosensitive substrate or the photosensitive layer  can have any suitable thickness, for example in a range of about 100 nm to about 5000 nm. For example, the minimum photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer  thickness can be about 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450 or 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, or 5000 nm. For example, the maximum photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer  thickness can be about 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450 or 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, or 5000 nm. The diameter of the indicia formed by the tip array  can be modulated by modifying the resist material used and\/or the thickness of the photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer . For example, under the same radiation conditions, a thicker photosensitive layer can result in indicia having larger diameters. At constant photosensitive layer thickness, an increase radiation intensity can results in indicia having larger diameters.","Patterning","BPL can be performed using any suitable platform, for example, a Park AFM platform (XEP, Park Systems Co., Suwon, Korea) equipped with a halogen light source. BPLAs another example, a Zeiss microscope can be used with a light source having a wavelength in a range of about 360 nm to about 450 nm. Movement of the tip array  when using the Zeiss microscope can be controlled, for example, by the microscope stage.","Referring again to , in an embodiment of the method, a transparent polymer tip array  is brought in contact with a photosensitive layer , for example, for example SHIPLEY1805 (MicroChem. Inc.) photoresist material, followed by exposure (e.g. illumination) of the top surface (the substrate layer) of the tip array  with a radiation source. As a result of the blocking layer  blocking the radiation (e.g., by reflection), the radiation is transmitted through the transparent polymer and out the portion of the transparent polymer exposed by the aperture  (i.e., the tip end). Historically, photolithography has used ultraviolet light from gas-discharge lamps using mercury, sometimes in combination with noble gases such as xenon. These lamps produce light across a broad spectrum with several strong peaks in the ultraviolet range. This spectrum is filtered to select a single spectral line, for example the \u201cg-line\u201d (436 nm) or \u201ci-line\u201d (365 nm). More recently, lithography has moved to \u201cdeep ultraviolet,\u201d for example wavelengths below 300 nm, which can be produced by excimer lasers. Krypton fluoride produces a 248-nm spectral line, and argon fluoride a 193-nm line. In principle, the type of radiation used with the present apparatus and methods is not limited. One practical consideration is compatibility with the pen array materials. Radiation in the wavelength range of about 300 nm to about 600 nm is preferred, optionally 380 nm to 420 nm, for example about 365 nm, about 400 nm, or about 436 nm. For example, the radiation optionally can have a minimum wavelength of about 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, or 600 nm. For example, the radiation optionally can have a maximum wavelength of about 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, or 600 nm.","The photosensitive layer  can be exposed by the radiation transmitted through the polymer tip for any suitable time, for example in a range of about 1 second to about 1 minute. For example, the minimum exposure time can be about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60 seconds. For example, the maximum exposure time can be about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60 seconds.","The tip array  and\/or the substrate can be moved during patterning to form the desired indicia. For example, in one embodiment, the tip array  is moved while the substrate is held stationary. In another embodiment, the tip array  is held stationary while the substrate is moved. In yet another embodiment, both the tip array  and the substrate are moved.","The method can further include developing the photosensitive layer , for example by any suitable process known in the art. For example, when a resist layer is used, the exposed resist layer can be developed for by exposed for about 30 seconds in MF319 (Rohm & Haas Electronic Materials LLC). The resist layer can be a positive resist or a negative resist. If a positive resist layer is used, developing of the resist layer  removes the exposed portion of the resist layer. If a negative resist layer is used, developing of the resist layer removes the unexposed portion of the resist layer. Optionally, the method can further include depositing a patterning layer on the substrate surface after exposure followed by lift off of the resist layer to thereby form the patterning layer into the indicia printed on the resist layer by BPL. The patterning layer can be a metal, for example, and can be deposited, for example, by thermal evaporation. The resist lift off can be performed using, for example, acetone.","Referring to , when using large-scale 2D arrays of BPL tips (15,000 pens per cm), BPL can be used to do very high throughput lithography, yielding thousands of parallel-produced patterns at a time. The patterns can be the same, for example by using a uniform tip array . In the alternative, at least some of the patterns can differ from each other, for example by using a tip array  which is non-uniformly masked and lateral displacement of the tip array  while patterning which exceeds the tip pitch dimension.  illustrates a uniform dot array formed by a beam pen tip array  having apertures formed by FIB using an about 400 nm halogen light source and 40 nm thick resist layer . The aperture  diameter was 50\u00b15 nm. After chromium evaporation and resist lift off, chromium dot features with diameters of 111\u00b111 nm were generated. This feature size is below the diffraction limit of the light source.","As shown in , arrays of \u201cL\u201d shapes can be formed, with the \u201cL\u201d shape being formed by a single pen tip. To image the results of the lithographic experiment, for example, the resist coated substrate was developed followed by metal evaporation and resist removal to generate dot features. The relative positions of the dots from \u201cL\u201d to \u201cL\u201d represents the relative position of the tips  in the array. The diameter of each dot can be modulated by a number of lithographic parameters including, for example, exposure time, resist material type, and photosensitive layer  thickness.","Another factor contributing to BPL resolution is the tip aperture  size, which controls the area of the resist which is exposed to light from the tip. Referring to , with a near UV light or halogen light source and conventional photolithography conditions, dot sizes close to and below the light diffraction limit, of about 200 nm ( inset) can be created. The dot pattern of  was generated using a radiation having a wavelength of about 380 nm to about 420 nm. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that this small feature size may be attributed to near-field effects at the point-of-contact between the tip and surface. Even though the aperture  used to create the dots of  is 500 nm, the contact area is much smaller, acting like a light pipe. Further optimization of the photolithography conditions can include, for example, using deep-UV illumination, thinner resist layers, and high resolution resist materials, which may improve BPL resolution down to the sub-100 nm range.","Large arrays of dots can be made simultaneously by moving the array of the surface with a piezo stage while illuminating the tip array  from the back side of the tips , for example, through the tip substrate layer . As shown in , 10\u00d710 gold dot arrays with a feature spacing of 6 \u03bcm can be generated. The dot arrays were generated using 90% maximum power light intensity, a 20 second exposure time. The features have a diameter of 750\u00b180 nm. The radiation can be kept on during the entire patterning process. Accordingly, the lateral and vertical movement of the tip array  is done rapidly to minimally expose the resist areas that are not intended for patterning. For example, the tip array  movement across the sample can be done in a range of about 10 \u03bcm\/s to about 100 \u03bcm\/s. For example, the minimum rate of movement of the tip array  across the substrate can be about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 \u03bcm\/s. For example, the maximum rate of movement of the tip array  across the substrate can be about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 \u03bcm\/s. Using a tip array  having 15,000 tips , , patterns can be simultaneously generated in about 30 minutes (for a total of 1.5 million features).","As shown in , BPL was used to create 15,000 replicas of a pattern of the Chicago skyline comprised of 182 dots (). The tip array  used to create the pattern had 500 nm diameter apertures. These structures were created by holding the pen array at each spot for about 20 s and traveling between spots at a speed of 60 \u03bcm\/s. The dots are 450\u00b170 nm in diameter and 600 nm apart ().","The individual tips  within a BPL array can be addressed by selective illumination. For example, patterning can be achieved with the illumination of fewer than all of the tips  in the array, for example with one or a selected plurality of the tips  in the tip array . Selective illumination of the tips  can be performed, for example, by selectively focusing light through the microscopic bases of each tip. The tip array  can also include one or more spatial light modulators capable of blocking certain tips  from exposure to the light. The spatial light modulators can be static and\/or dynamically controllable. For example, the spatial light modulates can be shutters. The spatial light modulators can be formed using a variety of materials, including, for example, liquid crystals. The spatial light modulators can be, for example, a mask, which is not dynamically controllable. The spatial light modulators can be placed or formed as a part of the tip substrate layer . Because the base of the tips  has edge lengths on the order of microns, the spatial light modulators need not be created on the nanoscale in order to result in sub-micron sized indicia. Rather it is the channeling of the radiation through the transparent polymer and the aperture  that allows for the sub-micron patterning. Tip addressability has been a major challenge for SPL methods. With passive arrays, one simply achieves duplication\u2014each tip does exactly what the other tips  do. Many different methods of actuation have been evaluated with limited success, especially where lithography is the primary goal. Thermal, mechanical, electrical and magnetic actuation, all have been studied. With BPL, the radiation can be used as a convenient method to achieve multiplexed addressability of each tip within a complex and large array.","Referring , for example, one can take the tip array  and use a photo mask, for example, a Cr photo mask, to cover all of the pyramid bases that one wants to turn off in a BPL experiment. Under homogeneous illumination, each active tip in the array can be used to fabricate repeat arbitrary patterns (such as letters of \u201cNU\u201d with 29 uniform dots). When the radiation source was illuminated on selected BPL tips  (e.g. areas corresponding to letters \u201cU\u201d), only those tips  under illumination can channel energy to the substrate and expose the resist layer, while no patterns resulted from other area without illumination, although all of the tips  made contacts with the substrate simultaneously, (). This approach allows for two orthogonal levels of control, using selective illumination for tip-attenuation and tip movement. When coupled with spatial light modulator, each tip can be individually addressed to fabricate different patterns. For example, a portion of the tips  in a tip array  can be selectively illuminated and first pattern can be formed. The tip array  can then be shifted and a second pattern can be formed. The tip array  can be shifted, for example, a distance at least equal to the tip pitch to form with the second pattern step a variety of different patterns on the substrate. For example, as a result of the selective illumination of the tips , regions of the substrate would include only the first pattern, only the second pattern, or a combination of both patterns.","The features that can be patterned range from sub-100 nm to 1 mm in size or greater, and can be controlled by altering the exposure time and\/or the contacting pressure of the tip array .","The BPL tip arrays can exhibit pressure dependence which results from the compressible nature of the polymer used to form the tip array . Indeed, the microscopic, preferably pyramidal, tips  can be made to deform with successively increasing amounts of applied pressure, which can be controlled by simply extending the piezo in the vertical direction (z-piezo). The controlled deformation of the tip array  can be used as an adjustable variable, allowing one to control tip-substrate contact area and resulting feature size. The pressure of the contact can be controlled by the z-piezo of a piezo scanner. The more pressure (or force) exerted on the tip array , the larger the feature size. Thus, any combination of contacting time and contacting force\/pressure can provide a means for the formation of a feature size from about 30 nm to about 1 mm or greater. Within the pressure range allowed by z-piezo extension of about 5 to about 25 \u03bcm, one can observe a near linear relationship between piezo extension and feature size at a fixed contact time of 1 s. The substrate layer of the tip arrays can deform before deformation of the tips  occurs, which can offer a buffering provides extra tolerance in bringing all of the tips  in contact with the surface without tip deformation and significantly changing the intended feature size. The contacting pressure of the tip array  can be about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa.","At very low contact pressures, such as pressures of about 0.01 to about 0.1 g\/cmfor the preferred materials described herein, the feature size of the resulting indicia is independent of the contacting pressure, which allows for one to level the tip array  on the substrate surface without changing the feature size of the indicia. Such low pressures are achievable by 0.5 \u03bcm or less extensions of the z-piezo of a piezo scanner to which a tip array  is mounted, and pressures of about 0.01 g\/cmto about 0.1 g\/cmcan be applied by z-piezo extensions of less than 0.5 \u03bcm. This \u201cbuffering\u201d pressure range allows one to manipulate the tip array , substrate, or both to make initial contact between tips  and substrate surface without compressing the tips , and then using the degree of compression of tips  (observed by changes in reflection of light off the inside surfaces of the tips ) to achieve a uniform degree of contact between tips  and substrate surface. This leveling ability is important, as non-uniform contact of the tips  of the tip array  can lead to non-uniform indicia. Given the large number of tips  of the tip array  (e.g., 11 million in an example provided herein) and their small size, as a practical matter it may be difficult or impossible to know definitively if all of the tips  are in contact with the surface. For example, a defect in a tip or the substrate surface, or an irregularity in a substrate surface, may result in a single tip not making contact while all other tips  are in uniform contact. Thus, the disclosed methods provide for at least substantially all of the tips  to be in contact with the substrate surface (e.g., to the extent detectable). For example, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, or at least 99% of the tips  will be in contact with the substrate surface.","The leveling of the tip array  and substrate surface with respect to one another can be assisted by the transparent, or at least translucent nature of the tip array  and tip substrate layer , which allow for detection of a change in reflection of light that is directed from the top of the tip array  (i.e., behind the base of the tips  and common substrate) through to the substrate surface. The intensity of light reflected from the tips  of the tip array  increases upon contact with the substrate surface (e.g., the internal surfaces of the tip array  reflect light differently upon contact). By observing the change in reflection of light at each tip, the tip array  and\/or the substrate surface can be adjusted to effect contact of substantially all or all of the tips  of the tip array  to the substrate surface. Thus, the tip array  and common substrate preferably are translucent or transparent to allow for observing the change in light reflection of the tips  upon contact with the substrate surface. Likewise, any rigid backing material to which the tip array  is mounted is also preferably at least transparent or translucent.","The contacting time for the tips  can be from about 0.001 seconds to about 60 seconds. For example, the minimum contact time can be about 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60 seconds. For example, the maximum contact time can be about 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60 seconds. The contacting force can be controlled by altering the z-piezo of the piezo scanner or by other means that allow for controlled application of force across the tip array .","The substrate surface can be contacted with a tip array  a plurality of times, wherein the tip array , the substrate surface or both move to allow for different portions of the substrate surface to be contacted. The time and pressure of each contacting step can be the same or different, depending upon the desired pattern. The shape of the indicia or patterns has no practical limitation, and can include dots, lines (e.g., straight or curved, formed from individual dots or continuously), a preselected pattern, or any combination thereof.","The indicia resulting from the disclosed methods have a high degree of sameness, and thus are uniform or substantially uniform in size, and preferably also in shape. The individual indicia feature size (e.g., a dot or line width) is highly uniform, for example within a tolerance of about 5%, or about 1%, or about 0.5%. The tolerance can be about 0.9%, about 0.8%, about 0.7%, about 0.6%, about 0.4%, about 0.3%, about 0.2%, or about 0.1%. Non-uniformity of feature size and\/or shape can lead to roughness of indicia that can be undesirable for sub-micron type patterning.","The feature size can be about 10 nm to about 1 mm, about 10 nm to about 500 \u03bcm, about 10 nm to about 100 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 100 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 50 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 10 \u03bcm, about 50 nm to about 5 \u03bcm, or about 50 nm to about 1 \u03bcm. Features sizes can be less than 1 \u03bcm, less than about 900 nm, less than about 800 nm, less than about 700 nm, less than about 600 nm, less than about 500 nm, less than about 400 nm, less than about 300 nm, less than about 200 nm, less than about 100 nm, or less than about 90 nm.","System for Beam Pen Lithography","A system for BPL can include a radiation source for emitting a radiation in a path and a tip array as disclosed herein disposed in the path with the radiation being incident upon the tip substrate layer, such that the radiation is emitted through the aperture-exposed tip ends of the tips. The system can further include a substrate stage disposed for selective contact with the tip array. The substrate stage can be, for example, a piezo stage. The tip array can optionally be operatively coupled to the radiation source and\/or the substrate stage to perform a patterning method described herein. The apparatus can also include one or more spatial light modulators disposed in the radiation path between the radiation source and the tip array, for selective illumination of individual tips  in the array. For example, the system can include an array of spatial light modulators that are individually and dynamically controllable to selectively reflect the incident radiation or allow it to pass to the tip substrate layer and tip(s). The spatial light modulators can be coupled to the BPL tip array . For example, the spatial light modulators can be disposed on the tip substrate layer  of the tip array .","Fabrication of Masters of Polymer Pen Arrays:","Shipley1805 (MicroChem, Inc.) photoresist was spin-coated onto gold thin film substrates (10 nm Cr adhesion layer with 100 nm of Au thermally evaporated on a pre-cleaned oxidized Si <100> wafer). Square well arrays were fabricated by photolithography using a chrome mask. The photoresist patterns were developed in an MF319 developing solution (MicroChem, Inc.), and then exposed to Oplasma for 30 s (200 mTorr) to remove the residual organic layer. Subsequently, the substrates were placed in gold (Type TFA, Transene) and chromium (Type 1020, Transene) etching solutions, respectively. Copious rinsing with MiliQ water was required after each etching step to clean the surface. The photoresist was then washed away with acetone to expose the gold pattern. The gold patterned substrate was placed in a KOH etching solution (30% KOH in HO:IPA (4:1 v\/v)) at 75\u00b0 C. for \u02dc25 min with vigorous stirring. The uncovered areas of the Si wafer were etched anisotropically, resulting in the formation of recessed pyramids. The remaining Au and Cr layers were removed by wet chemical etching. Finally, the pyramid master was modified with 1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorodecyltrichlorosilane (Gelest, Inc.) by gas phase silanization.","Fabrication of BPL Tip Array:","Hard PDMS (h-PDMS) (1,2) was used for fabricating the polymer pen arrays. The h-PDMS was composed of 3.4 g of vinyl-compound-rich prepolymer (VDT-731, Gelest) and 1.0 g of hydrosilane-rich crosslinker (HMS-301). Preparation of polymers typically required the addition of 20 ppm w\/w platinum catalyst to the vinyl fraction (platinumdivinyltetramethyldisiloxane complex in xylene, SIP 6831.1 Gelest) and 0.1% w\/w modulator to the mixture (2,4,6,8-tetramethyltetravinylcyclotetrasiloxane, Fluka). The mixture was stirred, degassed, and poured on top of the polymer pen array master. A pre-cleaned glass slide (VWR, Inc.) was then placed on top of the elastomer array and the whole assembly was cured at 70\u00b0 C. overnight. The polymer pen array was carefully separated from the pyramid master.","The entire array, including tips , is cleaned by oxygen plasma and then covered with a layer gold by thermal evaporation methods (\u02dc80 nm with a 5 nm Ti adhesion layer). The tip array  was then brought in contact with a glass slide coated with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), a sticky material, which subsequently removed the Au\/Ti layer from the PDMS tips , defining the aperture  and exposing the underlying transparent PDMS.","Patterning Using Beam Pen Lithography:","A Si\/SiOsurface was first spin-coated with a layer of hexamethyl disilazane at about 4000 rmp for about 40 seconds, followed by spin-coating a layer of SHIPLEY 1805 (pre-diluted with propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate, MicroChem. Inc.) at about 4000 rpm for about 40 seconds. The chip was then baked at a hot plate at about 110\u00b0 C. for about 5 minutes before being used as a substrate.","The beam pen tip array  was then brought into contact with the substrate using a UV photo-aligner (Model Q2000). The substrate was then exposed to an illumination source by illuminating the top surface of the tip array  with a halogen light source. The light source traveled through the tips  of the array to expose portions of the substrate. Typical illumination time was in a range of about 0.5 seconds to about 1 second. Exposure was followed by pattern developing in an MF319 developing solution (MicroChem. Inc.). The illumination process was performed on a Park (XEP, Park Systems Co., Suwon, Korea) AFM platform. For selected-area illumination, conventional quartz masks with different shadow shapes (such as the letters of \u201cNU\u201d) were placed between the light source and the tip arrays. As shown in , this results in the formation of patterns on the substrate in the shape of the quartz mask.","The foregoing describes and exemplifies the invention but is not intended to limit the invention defined by the claims which follow. All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the materials and methods of this invention have been described in terms of specific embodiments, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the materials and\/or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved.","All patents, publications and references cited herein are hereby fully incorporated by reference. In case of conflict between the present disclosure and incorporated patents, publications and references, the present disclosure should control.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["1. T. Ito, S. Okazaki, 406, 1027 (2000).","2. C. A. Mirkin, 1, 79 (2007).","3. B. D. Gates et al., 105, 1171 (2005).","4. M. Qi et al., 429, 538 (2004).","5. M. Geissler, Y. Xia, 16, 1249 (2004).","6. E. Abb\u00e9, 9, 413 (1873).","7. T. F. Scott et al., 324, 913 (2009).","8. L. Li et al., 324, 910 (2009).","9. T. L. Andrew, H. Y Tsai, R. Menon, 324, 917 (2009).","10. H. I. Smith, 14, 4318 (1996).","11. R. Menon, A. Patel, D. Gil, H. I. Smith, 8, 26 (2005).","12. M. D. Levenson, N. S. Viswanathan, R. A. Simpson, 29, 1828 (1982).","13. R. D. Piner, J. Zhu, F. Xu, S. Hong, C. A. Mirkin, 283, 661 (1999).","14. K. Salaita, Y. H. Wang, C. A. Mirkin, 2, 145 (2007).","15. A. Naber, H. Kock, H. Fuchs, 18, 567 (1996).","16. J. W. Kingsley, S. K. Ray, A. M. Adawi, G. J. Leggett, D. G. Lidzey, 93, 213103 (2008).","17. G. J. Leggett, 35, 1150 (2006).","18. S. S. Choi, et al., 45, 1659 (2004).","19. F. Huo et al., 321, 1658 (2008).","20. D. Qin, Y. Xia, A. J. Black, G. M. Whitesides, 16, 98 (1998).","21. D. Qin, Y. Xia, and G. M. Whitesides, 9, 407 (1997).","22. Z. Zheng et al., 48, 7626 (2009).","23. Materials and methods are available as supporting material on Online.","24. Vettiger, P. et al. 44, 323 (2000).","25. X. Wang, et al. 22, 2563 (2004).","26. D. Bullen and C. Liu, 125, 504 (2006).","27. D. Bullen, et al. 84, 789 (2004)."]}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 6E","FIG. 6D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 7C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 8C and 8D","b":["8","8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
