---
title: System and method for maximizing edit distances between particles
abstract: Embodiments of the invention disclose a system and a method for transforming a set of particles in an output set of particles representing a set of words suitable for use in an information retrieval system. The method generates, for each particle in the set of particles, combinations of parts of a particle, and replaces the particle in the set of particles with the parts of a combination maximizing a total minimum edit distance (MED) of the set of particles. For example, the method determines a MED of each particle in the set of particles, determines the total MED of the set of particles as summations of the MED of each particle, and then determines the combination maximizing the total MED of the set of particles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229965&OS=08229965&RS=08229965
owner: Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc.
number: 08229965
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/495,540, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,055,693 \u201cMethod for Retrieving Items Represented by Particles from an Information Database,\u201d filed by Ezzat et al., on Jun. 30, 2009.","This invention relates generally to information retrieval, and in particular to transforming of a set of particle using maximization of edit distances between particles.","Information retrieval (IR) systems typically include a large list of items, such as geographic points of interest (POI), or music album titles. The list is accessed by an index. Input to the index is a query supplied by a user. In response to the query, the IR system generates a result list that best matched the query. The result list can be rank ordered according various factors. The result list, index, query and result list are typically represented by words. The input list, query and result list be textual or spoken.","Spoken queries are used in environments where a user cannot use a keyboard, e.g., while driving, or the user interface includes a microphone. In those environments, an automatic speech recognizer (ASR) is used to convert speech to words.","The ASR uses two basic data structures, a pronunciation dictionary of words, and a language model of the words. Usually, the IR system represents the words phonetically as phonemes, e.g., RESTAURANT is represented as \u201cR EH S T R AA N T.\u201d Phonemes refer to the basic units of sound in a particular language. The phonemes can include stress marks, syllable boundaries, and other notation indicative of how the words are pronounced.","The language model describes the probabilities of word orderings, and is used by the ASR to constrain the search for the correct word hypotheses. The language model can be an n-gram. If the n-grams are bigrams, then the bigram lists the probabilities such as P(\u201cBELL\u201d|\u201cTACO\u201d), which is the probability that the word \u201cBELL\u201d follows the word \u201cTACO.\u201d The language model can also be a finite state grammar, where the states in the grammar represent the words that can appear at each state, and the transitions between states represent the probability of going from one state to another state.","There are two main problems with word-based IR.","First, important words for the IR are typically infrequent identifier words. For example, in an item POI \u201cMJ'S RESTAURANT\u201d, the important identifier word is \u201cMJ'S.\u201d Frequently, these identifier words are proper nouns from other languages. For example, the word \u201cAASHIANI\u201d in the item \u201cAASHIANI RESTAURANT\u201d is from the Hindi language. Another way these identifier words emerge is through combination, as with \u201cGREENHOUSE.\u201d Modifying the roots of words also increases the size of the vocabulary. In general, the number of infrequent but important identifier words is very large.","In addition, important identifier words are often mispronounced or poorly represented by the language model. Accurate statistics for the n-grams also are generally unavailable. Hence, the probability of recognizing important infrequent words is low, and the word sequences are often incorrect. This leads to poor recall performance by the IR system.","Second, the computational load for word-based IR systems increases with the size of the list and index, and the performance of system becomes unacceptable for real-time retrieval.","Embodiments of the invention provide a method for retrieving items in an information retrieval (IR) database represented by particles. The number of unique particles is much smaller than the number of unique words, e.g., smaller by at least an order of magnitude. This improves the performance of an automatic speech recognition (ASR) system, leading to a decrease in recognition time by as much as 50%. Surprisingly, even though the number of particles is decreased dramatically when compared with the number of words, and the throughput increases likewise, the performance of IR system measured by the recall rate is improved by as much as 2%.","The embodiments of the invention are based on the realization that for the operations of the information retrieval (IR) systems it is advantageous to represent a set of words with the particles that are as different from each other as possible. For example, having particles that are as different from each other as possible allows for accurate recognition during ASR. Moreover, the embodiments are based on the further realization, that the difference between the particles can be measured using edit distance.","One embodiment of the invention discloses a method for transforming a set of particles formed by at least part of a set of items in an output set of particles, wherein the set of items represents a set of words suitable for use in an information retrieval system. The method generates, for each particle in the set of particles, combinations of parts of a particle, and replaces the particle in the set of particles with the parts of a combination maximizing a total minimum edit distance (MED) of the set of particles. For example, the method determines a MED of each particle in the set of particles, determines the total MED of the set of particles as summations of the MED of each particle, and then determines the combination maximizing the total MED of the set of particles.","Another embodiment discloses a method for generating an output set of particles representing a set of words, comprising the steps of: determining a set of particles from the set of words; generating combinations of parts of a particle in the set of particles; replacing the particle in the set of particles with the parts of a combination maximizing a total minimum edit distance (MED) of the set of particles; and repeating the generating and the replacing for each particle in the set of particles to generate the output set of particles, wherein the steps of the method are performed by a processor.","Yet another embodiment discloses a system for transforming a set of particles in an output set of particles, representing a set of words, comprising: a transformation module configured to determine, for each particle in the set of particle, a combination of parts of the particle maximizing a total minimum edit distance (MED) of the set of particles; and a processor configured to replace the particle in the set of particles with the parts of the combination.","One variation of this embodiment includes means for determining a MED of each particle in the set of particles; means for determining the total MED of the set of particles; and means for determining the combination maximizing the total MED of the set of particles.","As shown in , embodiments of our invention provide a method for retrieving items from a database in an information retrieval (IR) system . The steps of the method operate in a processor as known in the art. The processor includes memory and I\/O interfaces.","The IR system includes a list of items  represented by words. From the word-based list , we generate  a list of items  represented by particles. The correspondence  between the items in the word-based list and the items in the particle-based list can be one-to-one, or one-to-many, when alternative pronunciations of the words are possible.","Particles are well known in the field of speech recognition. As defined herein a \u201cparticle\u201d represents a concatenated phoneme sequence. A string of particles represents the phoneme sequence for a word, see Whittaker et al., \u201cParticle-based language modelling,\u201d International Conference on Speech and Language Processing (ICSLP), 2000.","Up to now, particles have only been used to recognize words in an automatic speech recognizer (ASR) system. In contrast, the invention uses particles to perform information retrieval (IR).","We apply an indexer  to the list  to produce a particle-based index . To retrieve items, a particle-based query  is acquired from a user . The query can be derived from words in text , or speech  using the ASR.","The query  is used to look up the index  constructed from the particle-based list . The output, in response to the query , is a result list  of items from the word-based list  that correspond to the best matching items in the particle-based list .","To generate the particle-based list , in a preprocessing step, we maintain a set of unique words  in the list . We convert  the word-based set  to a set of unique particles . After we obtain the particle-based set , we can translate the words for the items in the list  to the corresponding particle-based items to generate  the particle-based list .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["101","201","202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 3"],"b":["211","212","301","302","300"]},"If an item in the word-based list has multiple pronunciations, then a Cartesian product of all possible partitioning into particles for all the words is formed, and enumerated in the particle-based list. For example, if AASHIANI can be partitioned into particles as \u201cAA_SH_IY AA_N_IY\u201d or as \u201cAA_SH Y_AE_N_IH,\u201d and RESTAURANT into particles as \u201cR_E_S_T_R_AA_N_T\u201d or as \u201cR_E_S_T_ER_R_AA_N_T,\u201d then all possible partitionings are enumerated in the particle-based index:","AA_SH_IY AA_N_IY R_E_S_T_R_AA_N_T,","AA_SH_IY AA_N_IY R_E_S_T_ER_R_AA_N_T,","AA_SH Y_AE_N_IH R_E_S_T_R_AA_N_T, and","AA_SH Y_AE_N_IH R_E_S_T_ER_AA_N_T.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","401","402","400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["501","502","500"]},"Our language model includes particles, e.g., an n-gram language model that includes statistics on particle n-grams.","Transformation of Particles","Embodiments of the invention are based on the realization that for the operations of the information retrieval (IR) systems it is advantageous to represent a set of words with the particles that are as different from each other as possible. For example, having particles that are as different from each other as possible allows for accurate recognition during ASR. Moreover, the embodiments are based on the further realization, that the difference between the particles can be measured using edit distance.","Accordingly, the embodiments transform a set of items  in an output set of particles. In various embodiments of the invention, the set of items represents a set of words suitable for use in the IR system. For example, one embodiment determines, for each word in the set of words, all possible partitionings of the word into particles and forms the set of items from unique particles derived from the set of words. In other embodiments, items in the set of items are selected from at least one of the set of words, a set of phonetic strings derived from the set of words, a set of particles derived from the set of words, and a combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","820"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","615","601"]},"A transformation module  generates  combinations  of parts of a particle  in the set of particles. For example, in one embodiment, the combinations include only two parts, i.e., a prefix and a suffix of the particle. Additionally, the combinations  are all possible combinations of the particle. In alternative embodiment, the combinations include more than two parts.","The particle  is replaced  in the set of particles with the parts of a combination  maximizing  a total minimum edit distance (MED) of the set of particles. The transformation is repeated for all particles in the set of particles, thus transforming the set of particles in the output set of particles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","715","720","730","740","750","755"]},"The replacing is repeated for all combinations of the particle. Specifically, the parts of the combination are removed from the set of particles and replaced with the parts of another combination of the particles, and the MED and the total MED are determined using the parts of the another combination. Finally, the parts of the combination corresponding to a maximum value of the total MED are added into the set of particles.","One embodiment preserves only unique particles in the set of particles. For example, of a part of the combination identical to a particle in the set of particles, this part is not added into the set.","During the transformation, the set of particles and, accordingly, the output set of particles, are indexed according to the set of words. For example, one embodiment creates an index map of indexes between the set of items and the set of words. The index map tracks the partitioning of the words into the particles. During the transformation, the index map becomes a tree map indexing the parts of the particles replacing the particles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIGS. 9-11","FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 11"],"b":["830","810"]},"Although the invention has been described by way of examples of preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications may be made within the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 8-11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
