---
title: Application-centric user interface techniques
abstract: Various application-centric user interface techniques are described. A user can easily launch, add, or update applications. An application-centric activity center can be presented as part of a user interface for an operating system shell. A file defining metadata for an application can be defined. The techniques can be applied to game-related software.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08475281&OS=08475281&RS=08475281
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08475281
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110609
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","TECHNICAL FIELD","COPYRIGHT AUTHORIZATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example 1","Exemplary System Overview","Example 2","Exemplary User Interface Presentations","Example 3","Exemplary Tiles","Example 4","Alternative Exemplary User Interface Presentations","Example 5","Alternative Exemplary User Interface Presentations","Example 6","Exemplary Application Detail Pages","Example 7","Exemplary Application-Centric User Interface in Operating System Shell","Example 8","Exemplary Relationships of Application-Centric User Interface in Operating System Shell","Example 9","Exemplary Application Metadata File","Example 10","Exemplary Relationships Between an Operating System Shell, Application Metadata Files, and Applications","Example 11","Exemplary Relationships between Application Metadata Files and Specialized Metadata Files","Example 12","Exemplary Acquisition of Application Metadata Files","Example 13","Exemplary Use of Metadata Files to Install Software","Example 14","Exemplary Accommodation of Legacy Applications","Example 15","Exemplary Application to Games","Example 16","Exemplary Game Detail Page","Example 17","Exemplary Multiplayer Online Game Scenario","Example 18","Exemplary Relationships for Achieving Multiplayer Online Game Scenarios","Example 19","Exemplary User Interface for Achieving Multiplayer Online Game Scenarios","Example 20","Exemplary Rich Presence Via Content Rating System","Example 21","Exemplary Rich Presence Via Capability Rating System","Example 22","Exemplary Rich Presence for Applications","Example 23","Exemplary Rich Presence for Games","Example 24","Exemplary Rich Presence for Applications","Example 25","Exemplary Application Tiles","Example 26","Exemplary Game-Centric Implementations of Tiles","Example 27","Exemplary Software Update","Example 28","Exemplary Functionality","Example 29","Exemplary Implementation of Application Metadata File","Example 30","Information Links","Example 31","Exemplary Computing Environment","Example 32","Exemplary Application Programming Interface","Example 33","Exemplary Schema for Use with Application Metadata","Example 34","Exemplary Schema for Use with Computer Game Metadata","Example 35","Exemplary Schema for Use with Computer Game Metadata","Example 36","Exemplary Schema for Use with an Application Manifest","Alternatives"],"p":["This application is a continuation of, and claims benefit from, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/163,569, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,972,215 that was filed on Jun. 27, 2008 and that is a division of, and claims benefit from, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10,402,346, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,846,023 that was filed on Mar. 27, 2003, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The technical field relates to human-computer interaction, such as when a computer user interacts with user interfaces presented by software.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","Since the beginning of the computer age, various techniques of human-computer interaction have been developed and implemented to help make computers easier to use. For example, the now common graphical user interface (\u201cGUI\u201d) paradigm has made selecting programs easier because a user can point to an icon related to a desired program, rather than having to type in the program's name.","However, with the advent of ever more complex computing machinery has come seemingly more complex graphical user interfaces offering many levels of choices. A user can be presented with so many levels of choices in a user interface that finding the desired option becomes an unwelcome chore. As a result, a user may tend to avoid choices that may in fact be desirable. The large number of choices thus serves as a barrier for the user.","The described technologies can provide various user interface arrangements and related functionality. For example, various application-centric user interface techniques can be employed.","In some examples, an application-centric user interface is presented to a user. In some examples, a user can add, update, or launch programs from the application-centric portion.","In some examples, the application-centric user interface includes an activity center by which a user can perform various actions related to the applications.","In a described implementation, the applications include game-related software. For example, a user can be presented with the available games and related information. In some examples, multiplayer online games can be launched.","Additional features and advantages will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrated embodiments, which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.","Various of the examples described herein can make use of application-centric user interface techniques. With the advent of ever-more complex user interfaces, application-centric user interface techniques can avoid the frustration associated with being unable to easily find applications and perform tasks for the applications. For example, application-centric user interface techniques can treat applications in a special way and include an area of the user interface limited to applications (e.g., other types of items, such as files, are not listed in the area). Such an approach can be an improvement over a system that merely presents applications as part of a file system that includes a myriad of other items, such as files.","In addition, various of the techniques described herein can lead to a more rich presentation of applications, such as when presented by an operating system shell. In this way, an application publisher can customize their application's shell presentation. The techniques can accommodate a variety of applications from different application publishers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","122","120","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["100","122","130","140","150","130","140","150"]},"The most recently launched application pane  can show tiles for one or more (e.g., three) of the most recently launched applications. Or, some other mechanism can be used to denote the most recently launched application(s).","The task pane  presents one or more tasks that can be performed for the user interface, such as navigating to different pages within the user interface. Some tasks may be application-specific, while others may not operate on a particular application. In the example, a \u201cview wish list\u201d option is shown. When activated (e.g., by clicking), the \u201cview wish list\u201d option navigates to a page showing a list of one or more applications that a user has designated as being in a \u201cwish list.\u201d For example, a user may be considering purchasing such applications or have already decided that such applications are desired and will be purchased upon release.","The information pane  can present one or more links , which when activated (e.g., by clicking), navigate to a detail page for the application indicated by the link. The links can be limited to those having fresh information, such as new information made available in the past n days (e.g., configurable by a user).","In any of the examples, areas of the user interface shown as panes may or may not be a visual boundary between the panes. Thus, the panes may alternatively be areas of the user interface without visual boundaries. Additional, fewer, or other items can be included. For example, a menu bar can present additional features or options.","To facilitate a rich presence for applications in a user interface, the exemplary tiles described herein can present a graphical representation of an application and other information related to the application.  is a screen shot of an exemplary application tile  for use in an application-centric user interface, such as the user interfaces of . In the example, the application's name , a graphical (e.g., iconic, photographic, or artistic) representation  of the application, and a publisher name  are included in the tile . Alternatively, fewer, additional, or different items can be shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["200","210","220","230","200","240","250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["200","210","220","230","200","270"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["200","210","220","200","280","280"]},"In any of the examples, activation (e.g., clicking or double clicking) of the graphical representation  can launch (e.g., execute) the respective application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","322","352","352","352","342","342","342","342","342","342","352","352","352","332"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","362","140","372","150"]},"In any of the examples, activation (e.g., clicking or double clicking) of the graphical representation A, B, N can launch (e.g., execute) the respective application. The representations A, B, N of the applications can be accompanied by information about the application (e.g., application name and the like). Alternatively, fewer, additional, or different items can be shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["402","412","414","416","402","250","412","414","416","402","412","414","416","412","414","416","412","414","416"]},"Additional pages not shown but possibly implemented include an application wish list. Further, few, or different pages can be implemented. The welcome page  can take the form of any of the application-centric user interfaces shown above (e.g., the interface  of ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","500","250","1902","512","514","518"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 2","FIG. 19","FIG. 5B"],"b":["500","500","250","1902","510","500","520","524"]},"In addition, the detail page  includes an installation details pane . For example, the program's file location, installation size, date installed, copyright information, preferred operating system, patch history, or some combination thereof can be displayed. Alternatively, fewer, additional, or different items can be shown. Application publishers can create additional custom categories, which may or may not include publisher-created object code modules that provide additional information relevant to the application for the user's benefit.","Also, the detail page  includes a saved documents pane , which has representations A, B, and C of saved documents for the application. Activation of the representation opens the document (e.g., and launches the application if appropriate).","Finally, in the example, the capability rating system details pane  shows the recommended capability rating for the application, the minimum capability rating for the application, and the user computer's capability rating. The capability rating gives an easily-understood rating roughly indicating the computing resources required to execute the application. In this way, a user can be forewarned that an application will not run or will not run well on the user computer.","In any of the examples, activation (e.g., clicking or double clicking) of the graphical representation  can launch (e.g., execute) the respective application.","Any of the user interfaces shown in the examples can be presented as part of a user interface for an operating system shell. For example, if the operating system shell depicts the file system of the computer, the user interfaces can be presented as a part of the file system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["624","600","624","602","642","652"]},"The other windows ,  may be presented by the operating system shell or by applications. The operating system shell may present other windows, such as those for navigating throughout the file system or configuring the operating system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","712","714","716","702","712","714","716"]},"In practice, the folders may be shown as iconic or list representations of the items in the folders, or in the case of the application folder , a more rich presentation can be presented as shown in any of the examples herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"Thus, the file  can include the application's name, a name of the application's publisher, a location to find link data for presenting informational links, capability rating system information, references to graphical representations of the application, numerous other items, or some combination thereof.","If desired, the file  can follow mark-up (e.g., XML) conventions. The file  can be associated with a signature to authenticate origin and integrity of the file . Additionally, the file  can include information (e.g., hyperlinks) for previewing (e.g., acquiring a demo version) or purchasing the application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","910","920","960","960","960","910","920","960","960","960","960","960","960"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1010","1020"]},"Application metadata files can be acquired in a variety of ways. For example, if an application is provided via a CD-ROM, the application metadata file can be stored thereon and copied therefrom. If an application is downloaded via a network connection, the file can be downloaded as part of the installation package. Or, as described herein, the application metadata file can be acquired without installing the application, such as when adding the application to a wish list or for an application hosted on a remote web site. In some cases, the application metadata file can be incorporated into or referred to by an application manifest. Such a manifest can be provided to indicate the items within a software package.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1116","1100","1116","920"]},"The application metadata file can be identified by a special file extension (e.g., ADF, GDF) or other mechanism. An HTML tag in the hyperlink can indicate that the file is to be added to a wish list. The file can be accompanied by a digital signature so that the origin and integrity of the file can be authenticated.","Any of the application metadata files described herein can be used to install software.  shows an exemplary method  for achieving application installation via an application metadata file.","At , the application metadata file is acquired. As described herein, the file can be acquired in a variety of ways.","At , the application is evaluated. The operating system shell can facilitate evaluation by a user by providing links to information about the application or the online community, even before the application has been purchased or installed.","At , the application is purchased. Billing information for the application software purchase can be collected electronically, and the purchase can be achieved by activating (e.g., clicking) on an item, which can operate with reference to information in the respective application metadata file.","At , the application is installed. Installation can proceed according to a variety of methods, including standard ones offered by the operating system.","The method  can also be applied to upgrades. For example, an upgrade can be evaluated before purchasing. In some cases, an upgrade may be of such a nature as to be considered a separate application (e.g., a major upgrade).","The described method  can also be described as a method for marketing software. By presenting the user with an easy way to add a representation of the application to the operating system shell before the software is purchased, the user can more easily become part of the online community related to the application. In this way, the user can collect relevant information when deciding whether or when to purchase the application or an upgrade. Further, the application publisher can keep in contact with the user via informational links. In this way, targeted online marketing can be achieved without deluging the online community with mass email campaigns.","Upon installation of an operating system shell supporting the described application-centric user interface techniques (e.g., when upgrading the operating system), there may be one or more applications already present on the computer. Such applications may not be present in the interfaces unless manually added by the user.","Such applications are sometimes called \u201clegacy\u201d applications. The user may be very interested in such applications, so if they do not appear in the proper user interfaces, the user may be disappointed and not take advantage of the functionality described herein.","To facilitate accommodation of legacy application, various methods can be used.  shows one such method . The method  can be performed by the operating system in the background as other applications are running. Over time, the method  can identify the applications on the computer. For example, if the operating system contains a routine that scans the files in the file system, the method  can run as part of the operating system routine. Alternatively, the method  can be run all at once.","At , a file is found during a scan. Files considered can be limited to executables. Then, at , it is determined whether the file matches a fingerprint stored as part of the operating system. A fingerprinting technique can be used so that the application is verified to be a particular application without its being an exact copy. If a match is indicated, details for the file (e.g., location and associated application metadata file name) can be stored in a list. Subsequently, the list can be considered (e.g., when an application activity center is launched or resumed), and the application metadata files can be added (e.g., after appropriate configuration, if any) to the database (e.g., the database ).","The described fingerprints and associated application metadata files can be provided as part of the operating system, an operating system upgrade, or provided on a remote Internet resource, such as a web server. The latter case provides flexibility in providing ongoing updates to the database of information for legacy applications. For example, application metadata files can be generated for the more popular application titles so that they eventually appear in the application activity center. Any number of other techniques can be used.","Any of the technologies described herein can be applied with advantage to games. An activity center limited to games (e.g., not depicting other applications) can be implemented. Games can be accommodated via a specialized application metadata file. Such a file can include additional information about the game, such as how to achieve multiplayer online game scenarios.","Further, when implemented as part of a user interface for the operating system shell, a game activity center can provide an easy way for users to manage and launch games. For example, the operating system shell can present a \u201cmy games\u201d folder by which the game activity center is presented. Still further, instant messaging functionality can be incorporated into the game activity center. And, if the operating system supports contact objects, multiplayer online games can be initiated via reference to the contact objects.","Various other game-specific functionality can be incorporated. For example, an application tile can include a link for playing the most recently saved game. In a detail page, the n (e.g., 3) most recently saved games can be portrayed graphically (e.g., via a mini screen shot depicting the game situation when it was saved).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1430","1412"]},"In addition, the pane  includes an information links pane , which includes an information link , which, when activated (e.g., by clicking), navigates to the indicated information.","A task pane  shows various tasks that can be achieved for the application (e.g., by activating the task item). For example, the game can be played by activating the button . Other tasks include: continue the last saved game, play multi-player, play with buddies, review and install updates (e.g., upgrades or updates to data files), view saved games, search for new games, find similar games, visit an online forum for the game, visit an online community for the game, join an online chat room for the game, change or uninstall the game, go to the game's (official) webpage, check compatibility information for the game, check security information for the game, view usage history (e.g., when played, how long played, how often played), and show program files.","In practice, additional, fewer, or different items may be shown. In any of the examples, activation (e.g., clicking or double clicking) of the graphical representation  can launch (e.g., execute) the respective application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1510","1520","1520","1520","1560","1540"]},"Contact information for the buddy computers A, B, N can be stored on a buddy list. When determining whether buddies are playing a particular game or any games, the list can be consulted. If desired, consent can be acquired before adding a contact to a buddy list.","Although multiplayer online games have become very popular, they can still remain somewhat difficult to start. Various technologies described herein can simplify multiplayer online game user interface operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","1610","1630","1620","1610","1640","1610"]},"The operating system shell  is operable to interface with a user (e.g., via the operating system shell or an interface for the instant messaging functionality ) to receive directions regarding multiplayer game scenarios. The shell  can then provide appropriate information to the game application  to initiate or join the multiplayer online game.","In some cases, a multiplayer online game can be initiated or joined via the contact object  (e.g., a user interface depicting information about an individual, such as a friend or buddy).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 15"],"b":["1700","1700","1710","1712","1714","1716"]},"The example also includes a chat pane , whereby the user can hold an online chat session (e.g., via messenger functionality) with other potential players. Text can be entered into the box  and the button  activated to send a message via the chat session.","The invited buddies pane  includes depictions (e.g., photographs) of those buddies (e.g., remote users) whom the user has invited to play. Also included is the buddy's name and a quality rating of the buddy's connection (e.g., indicative of whether a dialup or broadband connection is available for the buddy). Additional buddies can be invited via the button . In the example, the user is hosting the game (e.g., controls who is invited to the game). Other scenarios are possible.","The example further includes a game pane  which displays a function  and a list of games .","Finally, a ready button  can be activated by the user (or buddies at their respective computers) to indicate that they are ready to begin playing. Upon pressing the launch button , the game is begun with the displayed buddies in the buddy pane . Information in the game metadata file can be consulted to determine how to launch the game (e.g., how to submit the buddies for the online game).","The user interface  can be arrived at in a variety of ways. For example, a game detail page can present a link (e.g., \u201cplay multiplayer\u201d or \u201cplay with buddies\u201d) which, when activated, presents the interface . Or, the user may be chatting with a buddy via the messaging software and be presented with an option by which the user interface  is presented. Finally, an option can be presented when showing a list of buddies (e.g., in a contact list represented by contact objects) by which the user interface  is presented. The associated players can be automatically listed in the buddy pane  if desired.","Before the interface  is presented, another user interface can be presented (e.g., \u201cWho do you want to play this game with\u201d) by which a user selects buddies. Such a user interface can present various contact-related options (e.g., \u201cmy contacts,\u201d \u201ccompany directory,\u201d \u201cfamily address book,\u201d \u201crecent contacts,\u201d \u201ccell phone contacts,\u201d filters, or some combination thereof).","In any of the game examples described herein, games can be associated via content rating in a content rating system. For example, a game can be rated as acceptable for all audiences, or for mature audiences only. The system can accommodate various content rating conventions (e.g., from different countries).","A user (e.g., with an administrator password) can configure the system so that certain users are designated as to play games of only certain specified content ratings. For example, a parent can specify that a child can play only games rated for \u201call audiences.\u201d","In any of the examples described herein, applications can be associated with a capability rating system (\u201cCRS\u201d). For example, a higher rating can indicate that greater computing resources are needed to run the game. A minimum as well as a recommended capability rating can be specified for the application. The rating can be compared with a rating of the user computer to see whether the application will run or run well on the user computer.","Further, discrete system requirements can be specified for an application. For example, certain applications may require specialized hardware (e.g., a graphics tablet or a game controller).","Certain options can be not presented based on the requirements specified. In practice, a user will be permitted to launch an application even if it only meets the minimum system requirements.","The capability system rating can be presented for the application when it is added on a wish list. In this way, the user can easily determine whether or how well the application will run on the user computer.","In any of the examples described herein, combinations of one or more of the following can be presented for the application (e.g., as part of the tile for an application, on the application's detail page, or both): System Requirements (e.g., CRS), installation details (e.g., install folder, size on disk, date installed), patch history (e.g., filtered for the application), and saved document summary.","When presenting games in any of the examples herein, the following additional items can be presented: online game(s) currently in progress, saved game summary and preferred input device assignment.","When listing applications in any of the examples herein, the lists can be ordered by any of a variety of criteria (e.g., by name\/alphabetical, by genre, by publisher, by most recently run, size on disk).","When presenting application tiles, the following can be included: link(s) to new publisher content available; link(s) to online forums; link(s) to fan sites. When presenting games, the following can be presented: a content rating, whether buddies are online, a list of buddies online, or some combination thereof. When presenting more than one game at a time, a summary of games for which updated information is available can be presented.","For any of the application tiles shown herein, the tiles can include various information. The tiles can include any combination of the following information: date installed, release date (emphasize if on wish list), last run, hours run, publisher name and logo, developer name and logo, installation path, patch history, CRS data, update notification, extended description, screenshots, saved documents.","The tiles can include various items which, when activated, perform a task (e.g., the item behaves as a hyperlink or a command. Possible tasks include the following: find a new application, review and install updates, view system capabilities, check for updates, view my wish list, return to welcome page, run, continue last document, view saved documents, change\/remove, find similar applications, visit forum, join chat room, register application, view usage history, show installation folder, check for updates for this application online, email a friend about this application, buy this application, download the demo.","In addition or alternatively, in implementations accommodating games, the following information can be included: saved games, last played, hours played, number of buddies playing. The following tasks can be included: configure parental controls, play, continue last saved game, play with buddies, join an internet or LAN game session, create a new Internet or LAN game, find a new game, view saved games, find similar games, register game online.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 18A","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["1800","1810","1820","1830","1800","1840","1850","1860"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":["FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A"],"b":["1800","1880","1860"]},"When a user chooses to update or upgrade software, the functionality can be integrated with other update functionality on the computer. For example, if the computer's software (e.g., operating system) includes a download manager, the download manager can be invoked to acquire the update or upgrade.","A wide variety of functionality can be achieved via the technologies described herein. In addition to those shown, a user can add an application, see a patch history for an application, and see upgrades or other applications.","An application metadata file can include any information appropriate for achieving the user interfaces described herein. Table 1 shows exemplary fields in an application metadata file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Exemplary Application Metadata File Fields"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Tag","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ApplicationID","A unique identifier (e.g., a GUID) for a release."]},{"entry":[{},"Next major version of the application gets a new"]},{"entry":[{},"ID"]},{"entry":["ProductFamily ID","An identifier (e.g., GUID) for a family of"]},{"entry":[{},"products. For example, MICROSOFT MONEY"]},{"entry":[{},"2002 and MICROSOFT MONEY 2003 would"]},{"entry":[{},"have the same family ID, even if they have"]},{"entry":[{},"different application ID's."]},{"entry":["ParentApplicationID","Used for application suites and expansion packs"]},{"entry":["Information","Block of metadata for users who do not yet have"]},{"entry":[{},"the application installed. Can be used in a"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ccoming soon\u201d presentation."]},{"entry":["CommonTaskData","Information to activate common application tasks"]},{"entry":[{},"for the application."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"For those items of the user interface involving information links (e.g., the pane  of , the link  of , the information pane  of , the link  of the pane  in , and the information link  of the pane  of ), the information links can be implemented according to the technologies described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/401,620, Evans et al., \u201cPROVIDING INFORMATION LINKS VIA A NETWORK,\u201d filed Mar. 27, 2003, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference and filed concurrently with the present application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},"With reference to , an exemplary system for implementation includes a conventional computer  (such as personal computers, laptops, servers, mainframes, and other variety computers) includes a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit may be any of various commercially available processors, including Intel x86, Pentium and compatible microprocessors from Intel and others, including Cyrix, AMD and Nexgen; Alpha from Digital; MIPS from MIPS Technology, NEC, IDT, Siemens, and others; and the PowerPC from IBM and Motorola. Dual microprocessors and other multi-processor architectures also can be used as the processing unit .","The system bus may be any of several types of bus structure including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of conventional bus architectures such as PCI, VESA, AGP, Microchannel, ISA and EISA, to name a few. The system memory includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in ROM .","The computer  further includes a hard disk drive , a magnetic disk drive , e.g., to read from or write to a removable disk , and an optical disk drive , e.g., for reading a CD-ROM disk  or to read from or write to other optical media. The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface , and an optical drive interface , respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data, data structures, computer-executable instructions, etc. for the computer . Although the description of computer-readable media above refers to a hard disk, a removable magnetic disk and a CD, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, and the like, may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.","A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data ; in addition to an implementation .","A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through a keyboard  and pointing device, such as a mouse . These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a serial port interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as speakers and printers.","The computer  operates in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a server, a router, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated. The logical connections depicted include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the local network  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications (e.g., via the LAN  and a gateway or proxy server ) over the wide area network , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to the system bus  via the serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The term \u201cstorage device\u201d as used herein comprises computer-readable media and system memory that are each a statutory article of manufacture that is not a signal or carrier wave per se.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":"FIGS. 20-26","b":"2000"},"Also, although the example code is in the C# language, any number of other programming languages can be used to implement an application programming interface. Further, the example shows that the applications are incorporated into the operating system shell via a folder named \u201cMy Games,\u201d however other folder names or way of incorporating into the operating system shell can be used.","Table 2 shows exemplary families of functions for an API, and Table 3 shows exemplary functions for an API. In the example, a \u201csupported\u201d title is a non-web, non-legacy title supported by the system; the web and legacy titles are still supported by the system. Additional, fewer, or different functions can be implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Exemplary API Function Families"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Function Family","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["AddXXX","Install an application into \u201cMy Games\u201d"]},{"entry":["UninstallXXX","Uninstall an application from \u201cMy Games\u201d"]},{"entry":["IsXXXInstalled","Check to see if the specific application is installed"]},{"entry":[{},"in \u201cMy Games\u201d"]},{"entry":["GetXXX","Return the list of application in \u201cMy Games\u201d"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Exemplary API Functions"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Function","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["AddLegacyTitle","Install a legacy application into"]},{"entry":[{},"the game activity center."]},{"entry":["AddWebTitle","Install a web application into the"]},{"entry":[{},"game activity center."]},{"entry":["AddSupportedTitle","Install a supported application"]},{"entry":[{},"into the game activity center."]},{"entry":["GetMyGamesApps","Retrieves list of applications in"]},{"entry":[{},"the game activity center."]},{"entry":["GetMyGamesSupportedApps","Retrieves list of supported appli-"]},{"entry":[{},"cations in the game activity center."]},{"entry":["GetMyGamesLegacyApps","Retrieves list of legacy applica-"]},{"entry":[{},"tions in the game activity center."]},{"entry":["GetMyGamesWebApps","Retrieves list of installed appli-"]},{"entry":[{},"cations in the game activity center."]},{"entry":["IsAppInstalled","Checks to see if the specified app"]},{"entry":[{},"is installed in the game activity"]},{"entry":[{},"center as any kind of app."]},{"entry":["IsLegacyTitleInstalled","Checks to see if the specified app"]},{"entry":[{},"is installed in the game activity"]},{"entry":[{},"center as a legacy app."]},{"entry":["IsWebTitleInstalled","Checks to see if the specified app"]},{"entry":[{},"is installed in the game activity"]},{"entry":[{},"center as a web app."]},{"entry":["UninstallWebTitle","Removes a web title from the game"]},{"entry":[{},"activity center."]},{"entry":["UninstallSupportedTitle","Removes a supported title from the"]},{"entry":[{},"game activity center."]},{"entry":["UninstallLegacyTitle","Removes a legacy title from the game"]},{"entry":[{},"activity center."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIGS. 27-31","b":"2700"},"In the example, the schema specifies that the metadata can include an application identifier identifying an application installable in an application activity center (e.g., \u201capplicationid\u201d), a displayable description of one or more tasks performable for the application when installed into the application activity center (e.g., \u201cdescription\u201d for \u201ctaskdata\u201d), data indicating how to invoke the one or more tasks performable for the application when installed into the application activity center (e.g., \u201cinvokedata\u201d for \u201ctaskdata\u201d), and arguments for the one or more tasks performable for the application when installed in the application activity center (e.g., \u201carguments\u201d for \u201ctaskdata\u201d). Additional, fewer, or different elements can be defined for the schema.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"figref":["FIGS. 32-35","FIGS. 27-31"],"b":"3200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIGS. 36-38","b":"3600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIGS. 39-41","FIGS. 36-38"]},"Having described and illustrated the principles of our invention with reference to various embodiments, it will be recognized that the embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs, processes, or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computer apparatus, unless indicated otherwise.","In any of the examples depicting user interfaces, such interfaces can be implemented as graphical user interfaces (GUIs). Although iconic representations of programs are shown, in any of the examples, box art (e.g., an apparent photograph of the physical box for the software) for the application can be used instead.","Although some examples are shown in general purpose computers, the technologies can be alternatively applied to console game scenarios.","Various types of general purpose or specialized computer apparatus may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of the illustrated embodiment shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.","Techniques from one or more examples can be incorporated into any of the other examples.","In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied, it should be recognized that the detailed embodiments are illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of our invention. Rather, we claim as our invention all such embodiments as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIGS. 1A and 1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 20-26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 27-31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 32-35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 36-38","FIGS. 32-35"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 39-41"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
