---
title: Low blast overpressure muzzle brake
abstract: A muzzle brake with reduced blast overpressure may include a body having a top, a bottom, and an attachment hub. Vanes may extend from the top to the bottom. A first vane may be located at a front of the bore in the attachment hub. The first vane may have a forward-angled internal surface. A second vane may be located axially forward of the first vane. The second vane may have a forward-angled rear surface and a forward-angled front surface. A third vane may be located axially forward of the second vane. The third vane may have a rearward-angled rear surface. The forward-angled internal surface of the first vane may include an inner surface adjacent the bore and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The inner and outer surfaces may be angled differently with respect to the longitudinal axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08424440&OS=08424440&RS=08424440
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08424440
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to indirect fire weapons and in particular to muzzle brakes for indirect fire weapons.","Muzzle brakes for large caliber indirect fire weapons have been used to reduce recoil energy of the cannon system, thereby allowing the overall weapon system to be reduced in weight. This weight reduction of the system may increase the system transportability by air and land. The M119A2 105 mm howitzer is an example of an indirect fire system that utilizes a muzzle brake for this reason. The M119A2 105 mm howitzer may be transported by a Chinook or UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter. The M119A2 cannon system, known as the M20A1, utilizes a single-baffled brake in its design. The M777 155 mm howitzer system is another system that utilizes a muzzle brake for recoil reduction. The M777 155 mm howitzer system may be transported by MV-22 Osprey, CH-47 helicopter or by truck.","When muzzle brakes are used, propellant gas may be redirected rearward to reduce the recoil energy of the cannon. The incidence of this propellant gas upon the cannon crew may have a direct negative effect on the crew that is manning the cannon. The negative effect of the rearward directed gas is called blast overpressure (BOP). BOP may severely cripple a crew manning a cannon. When the crew is exposed to high BOP levels, they may face several dangers from the blast wave, including significant hearing damage and damage to other body organs. The U.S. Department of Defense uses the MIL-STD-1474D standard to determine if BOP (also known as impulse noise) is too dangerous for the crew, as well as to determine permissible exposure levels per day. Since the inception of muzzle brake technologies, the negative effect of BOP has plagued designers.","In the design of muzzle brakes, it may be desirable to maximize recoil reduction while minimizing the BOP that may be produced. A long-felt and unsolved need exists for a muzzle brake that may generate lower BOP than known muzzle brakes, while still providing adequate recoil reduction.","It is an object of the invention to provide a muzzle brake that may generate lower BOP than known muzzle brakes, while still providing adequate recoil reduction.","One aspect of the invention is a muzzle brake for attachment to a muzzle of a gun tube. The muzzle brake may include a body having a top, a bottom, and vanes that extend from the top to the bottom. An attachment hub may be located at a rear end of the body. The body and the hub may include a longitudinal bore centered on a longitudinal axis.","A first vane may be being located at a front of the bore in the attachment hub. The first vane may include a forward-angled internal surface. A second vane may be located axially forward of the first vane. The second vane may include a forward-angled rear surface and a forward-angled front surface. A third vane may be located axially forward of the second vane. The third vane may include a rearward-angled rear surface.","The forward-angled internal surface of the first vane may include an inner surface adjacent the bore and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The inner and outer surfaces may be angled differently with respect to the longitudinal axis. The inner surface may have a greater angle with respect to the longitudinal axis than the outer surface.","An outer diameter of the first vane may be greater than outer diameters of the second and third vanes. The outer diameters of the second and the third vanes may be substantially the same.","An internal surface of the top may include a pair of planar surfaces arranged substantially symmetric to a plane that substantially bisects the brake and includes the longitudinal axis. An internal surface of the bottom may include a pair of planar surfaces arranged substantially symmetric to the bisecting plane. The pairs of planar surfaces of the top and bottom may be angled towards each other. Angles formed by the pairs of the planar surfaces with a plane that is normal to the bisecting plane may be substantially equal.","An axial distance from a radially innermost point of the forward-angled internal surface of the first vane to a radially innermost center point of the second vane may be less than an axial distance from the radially innermost center point of the second vane to a radially innermost point of the rearward-angled rear surface of the third vane.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","A novel muzzle brake may provide new results by reducing the BOP experienced by the crew of an indirect fire weapon, such as, for example, the M119A2 system. The novel muzzle brake may reduce BOP while maintaining the critical recoil energy reduction. By reducing the BOP, the peak decibel levels may be reduced thereby allowing the crew to fire more rounds in a single day under both single and double ear protection. The ability to fire more rounds may make the indirect fire weapon more lethal to its targets.","The muzzle brake may include a double baffle configuration. The double baffle configuration may allow for the continued recoil reduction of the system. A first baffle may channel the propellant gas blast as the projectile exits. The propellant gas blast pattern produced at the first baffle may interfere with the propellant gas blast pattern produced at the second baffle. The interference may help reduce the BOP: The interference may be achieved by a novel design of the three vanes that define the two baffles.","First and second vanes may define a first baffle. The first vane of the first baffle may not allow the gas to rapidly expand rearward, as in known designs. The top and bottom portions of the first baffle may be contoured specifically to control the gas expulsion. The first and second vanes in the first baffle may have internal surfaces that are angled forward. The forward-angled internal surfaces may direct the expanding high pressure, high temperature gas at an angle of less than 90 degrees, as measured from the direction of travel of the projectile, such that the gasses are propelled down range from the gun and to each side.","The second vane and a third vane may define a second baffle. The third vane may include a rearward-angled internal surface (pressure face) that may maximize recoil reduction from the remaining propellant gases. The first baffle and second baffles may maintain the amount of recoil reduction produced by a known muzzle brake, while reducing the BOP at all crew locations by over 30%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 3-5"],"b":["14","12","10","14","14","16","18","20","24","16","24","12","10","24","12","10","16","24","26"]},"Vanes , ,  may extend from top  to bottom . Vanes  and  may define a first baffle having opposed propellant gas exhaust openings  ( (). Vanes  and  may define a second baffle having opposed propellant gas exhaust openings  ( (). Three vanes , ,  are shown in the Figures, but more than three vanes may be used in some embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["14","6","6","28","26","24","28","42","30","28","30","44","46","32","30","32","48"]},"Forward-angled internal surface  of vane  may include an inner surface  located adjacent bore  and an outer surface  located adjacent inner surface . Inner and outer surfaces ,  may be angled differently with respect to longitudinal axis X. Inner surface  may have a greater angle with respect to longitudinal axis X than outer surface  to better control the gas expansion and direction. Inner surface  may have an angle A with respect to axis X. Outer surface  may have an angle B with respect to axis X. Angle A between inner surface  and longitudinal axis X may be in a range of about 65 to about 75 degrees. Angle B between outer surface  and longitudinal axis X may be in a range of about 40 to about 45 degrees.","When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, angle A may be about 70 degrees and angle B may be about 45 degrees.","Forward-angled rear surface  of vane  may have an angle C with respect to axis X. Angle C may be in a range of about 55 to about 65 degrees. When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, angle C may be about 60 degrees.","Forward-angled front surface  of vane  may have an angle D with respect to axis X. Angle D may be in a range of about 62 to about 72 degrees. When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, angle D may be about 67 degrees.","Rearward-angled rear surface  of vane  may have an angle E with respect to axis X. Angle E may be in a range of about 59 to about 69 degrees. When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, angle A may be about 64 degrees.","Referring to , an outer diameter F of vane  may be greater than outer diameters G, H of vanes , , respectively. The larger diameter F of vane  may better shield the rear of the gun from the propellant gases. Outer diameters G, H of vanes ,  may be equal, which may assist in controlling the gas expansion. When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, outer diameter F of vane  may be about 360 mm and outer diameters G, H of vanes ,  may be about 340 mm.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":["14","7","7","18","20","14","18","54","56","14","20","58","60","54","56","58","60","54","56","18","58","60","20","14","10"]},"Referring to , a radially innermost center point of vane  may be an axial distance K from a radially innermost point of forward-angled internal surface  of vane . A radially innermost point of rearward-angled rear surface  of vane  may be an axial distance L from radially innermost center point of vane . Distance K may be less than distance L. When distance K is less than distance L, the compressible gases exiting the first baffle may interfere more with the compressible gases exiting the second baffle, thereby allowing the second baffle to be more effective. When brake  is used with gun tube  having a 105 mm caliber, distance K may be about 170 mm and distance L may be about 200 mm.","Brake  may provide new results by reducing the BOP experienced by the crew of an indirect fire weapon. Brake  may reduce BOP while maintaining the critical recoil reduction. By reducing the BOP, the peak decibel levels may be reduced thereby allowing the crew to fire more rounds in a single day under both single and double ear protection. The ability to fire more rounds may make the indirect fire weapon more lethal to its targets.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":["7","7"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
