---
title: System and method of notifying mobile devices to complete transactions
abstract: A method including registering an authority device for an account on an auth platform; receiving transaction request from an initiator to the auth platform; messaging the authority device with the transaction request; receiving an authority agent response from the authority device to the auth platform; if the authority agent response confirms the transaction, communicating a confirmed transaction to the initiator; and if the authority agent response denies the transaction, communicating a denied transaction to the initiator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544143&OS=09544143&RS=09544143
owner: Duo Security, Inc.
number: 09544143
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110302
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/309,885, filed 3 Mar. 2010, titled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING PUSH-BASED CHALLENGES ON MOBILE DEVICES FOR AUTHENTICATION OR AUTHORIZATION\u201d, which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference.","This invention relates generally to the digital security services field, and more specifically to a new and useful system and method of notifying mobile devices to complete transactions in the digital security field.","Fraudulent transactions, whether executed online by a malicious party who has stolen a user's online banking password or offline by a malicious party entering a restricted building using a forged identification card, are indicators of a lack of authentication in present day security systems. Similarly, authorization (permission to complete a transaction) is limited without a strong notion of authentication. Traditionally, techniques for authentication are classified into several broad classes such as \u201cwhat you know\u201d (e.g., passwords or a social security number), \u201cwhat you have\u201d (e.g., physical possessions such as ATM cards or a security dongle), and \u201cwhat you are\u201d (e.g., biometric information such as a finger print or DNA). However, many of these solutions are burdensome to users, requiring the user to remember information or carry extra devices to complete a transaction. Thus, there is a need in the digital security services field to create a new and useful system and method of notifying mobile devices to complete transactions. This invention provides such a new and useful system and method.","The following description of the preferred embodiments of the invention is not intended to limit the invention to these preferred embodiments, but rather to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use this invention.","As shown in , the method of the preferred embodiments for notifying mobile devices to complete transactions includes registering an authority device for an account on an auth platform S, receiving a transaction request from an initiator to the auth platform S, messaging the authority device with the transaction request S, receiving an authority agent response from the authority device to the auth platform S, if the authority agent response confirms the transaction, communicating a confirmed transaction to the initiator S, and if the authority agent response denies the transaction, communicating a denied transaction to the initiator S. The method functions to use push-based challenges on mobile device for the authentication and\/or authorization of parties involved in a transaction. The method functions to utilize non-intrusive techniques while providing improved security. The pushed messages preferably alert a user to the transaction request in real-time such that a decision of confirmation or denial of a transaction can be communicated to a requesting party with minimal time lag (e.g., preferably less than a minute, and more preferably less than 10 seconds). The method may be employed as standalone transaction validation or incorporated into a multifactor system. The method may be used in application such as web-based applications, remote access credentials, privileged account management, financial transactions, password recovery\/reset mechanisms, physical access control, Automatic Teller Machine (ATM) withdrawals, domain name transfers, online or offline transactions, building access security, or any suitable application requiring authentication and\/or authorization.","The method is preferably performed by an auth platform that communicates with a client of an initiating agent and an authority device associated with an account of the auth platform. The auth platform is preferably an internet accessible server that may be hosted on a distributed computing system, but may be hosted on any suitable platform. The initiating agent is typically a user or process that initiates a transaction. The requested transaction is preferably initiated by the initiating agent through a client such as a website, application, or device (e.g., an ATM machine). For authentication, the initiator agent may be a legitimate party or a malicious party attempting to fraudulently impersonate the legitimate party. For authorization, the initiating agent may be a legitimate authenticated party but may require approval from other parties to perform the action of the transaction. The authority device is preferably a device associated with an authentic agent that is a user or process that is legitimately authenticated or authorized to execute transactions. Even if a malicious entity were attempting to impersonate a user or authentic agent through stolen credentials or other means, they would\u2014ideally\u2014lack the authority device to complete a transaction.","Step S, which includes registering an authority device for an account on an auth platform, functions to identify a device of an agent that is permitted to authenticate or authorize transactions. The registration preferably occurs prior to a transaction request, and is preferably performed during an initial setup of an account on the auth platform. During the setup authentication and\/or authorization rules are preferably set. The authority device is preferably a mobile computing device possessed by an authentic user or an authorized agent. The mobile device is preferably a mobile phone, tablet computer, smartphone, personal data assistant (PDA), personal computer, and\/or any suitable computing device. The authority device preferably has access to a network over which communication with the auth platform is performed, such as a WiFi network, local-area network, telephony network, short message service (SMS) network, multimedia messaging service (MMS), or any suitable network. A plurality of devices may additionally be registered, as shown in . A second authority device may provide a backup communication point if a primary authority device does not respond. For example, after attempting to contact a primary authority device, the auth platform may message a secondary authority device for authentication or authorization. Or, alternatively, a threshold of two confirmations may need to be received to authorize a transaction. Additionally, a first authority device may be registered for authenticating the identity of an agent of the transaction request, and a second authority device may be registered for authorizing an action of an agent such that authentication and authorization may both be enabled, as shown in .","Step S, which includes receiving a transaction request from an initiator to the auth platform, functions to initiate a transaction. The transaction is preferably any event, transfer, action, or activity that requires authentication and\/or authorization of an involved party. Exemplary transactions may include logging into a website, application or computer system; a user withdrawing money from an ATM; a user initiating a \u201cforgotten password\u201d procedure; a user attempting to enter a restricted area of a building or environment; a payment exchange between two entities; a user attempting to perform a restricted action in a computer system; and\/or any suitable application requiring authentication and\/or authorization. Authentication preferably includes validating the identity of at least one involved party relevant to a transaction. Authorization preferably includes validating authority or permission of an entity to execute a transaction. For authentication, the authority device preferably belongs to the authentic user for self-approval of transactions. For authorization, the authority device preferably belongs to an authoritative user that is preferably in charge of regulating transactions of a user involved in the transaction. The transactions are preferably initiated in an online environment, where parties may be communicating using a computing device or public\/private network, but the transactions may alternatively occur offline where parties may be interacting in the real world. The user or device initiating the transaction is ideally a legitimate party, as shown in , but in the situations where a malicious party initiates or participates in the transaction, the method is preferably able to properly identify such a situation, as shown in . After a malicious transaction is prevented the approval rules for a transaction may be dynamically altered to increase security. The transaction is preferably sent from a requesting entity such as a website, application, or device. The requesting entity is typically a system in communication with the auth platform. An application programming interface (API) or any suitable protocol is preferably used to communicate between the requesting entity and the auth platform. In one variation, the communication sent from the requester is encrypted and the authority device preferably decrypts the information. This variation preferably prevents the auth platform from inspecting or accessing the communicated information which may be applicable when a third party is passing sensitive information through the auth platform. As an alternative variation, the communication between the requester and the auth platform is preferably encrypted or otherwise cryptographically protected and communication between the auth platform and the authority device verifies that the communication is from the authority device. Any suitable steps may be taken to secure the communication between the requesting entity, the auth platform and the authority device.","Step S, which includes messaging the authority device with the transaction request, functions to push a notification to a secondary device for authentication or authorization. The authority device is preferably a device only the authentic user or an authorized user would possess. The message is preferably sent through a communication channel between the authority device and the auth platform. The communication channel is preferably a push notification service provided through the authority device. The communication channel may alternatively be a short message system SMS network, email, a instant message, an in-app notification system, web based websocket or publication-subscription channels, image based transmission of transaction information such as through QR-codes captured by a camera, or any suitable technique for messaging the device. The messages preferably appear on the authority device or create an alert in substantially real-time (e.g., in less than 5 minutes). The realtime aspect of the messaging functions to enable authentication and authorization at the time of the transaction. In one variation, tracking a registered authority device may additionally be performed by the auth platform. For example, in a persistent TCP\/IP connection model, a mobile device moving from a service provider data network to a WiFi network may change IP addresses and therefore initiate a new persistent connection. Upon receiving that new connection and an identifier of the mobile device, the auth platform preferably updates the state of the device for the account associated with that device. Then, the proper connection is preferably used for messaging the authority device. Some communication channels may have limited throughput and lack the capability to present a full message from the auth platform. For example, SMS messages have a 160 character limit. An initial message may include a unique identifier, which can then be used to retrieve a full message. For example, the SMS message may include a URL link or code which can be used to retrieve a full message from an application or website. The full message may provide additional information and options for a transaction response. The messages transmitted over the communication channel may additionally be cryptographically signed and encrypted using an established setup between the auth device and the auth platform. Additionally the messages preferably include transaction information (i.e., metadata). The transaction information may include account or entity name, transaction details, location and time of transaction, IP address of initiating host, geolocation of the IP address or any suitable information or any suitable data on the transaction. In one example an online bank transfer may have a message with transaction information including payer, payee, account numbers, transfer amount, and transaction date and time.","Step S, which includes receiving an authority agent response from the authority device to the auth platform, functions to process a response from an authentic user or authorized user. The response preferably confirms or denies a transaction. The confirmation and denial of a transaction may additionally be set to indicate any suitable form of response. Preferably, the initial options are to accept or reject a transaction. Additionally, if a transaction is rejected a reason for rejection may be included such as \u201ccanceled because of change of mind\u201d or \u201cpossible malevolent transaction\u201d. Other variations may include a variety of options that may change based on the application. The available forms of responses may be included in the message information. Other forms of responses may allow a variety of multiple-choice options, variable setting options, or any suitable form of response input. For example, if a parent is acting as an authorization provider for an ATM withdraws made by a child, a message may be sent to a phone of the parent indicating that the child is attempting to withdraw a particular amount (e.g., $50). The parent may be able to respond allowing a withdrawal of only a lower amount (e.g., $20). As an additional sub-step to receiving an authority agent response, the response is preferably verified to be a legitimate response from the authority device as opposed to an entity imitating the device. Secure Socket Layer (SSL), a Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC), message signing, or any suitable cryptographic protocol may be used to verify the response is from the authority device.","Step S and S, which includes if the authority agent response confirms the transaction, communicating a confirmed transaction to the initiator, and if the authority agent response denies the transaction, communicating a denied transaction to the initiator, function to communicate the authentication and\/or authorization to the initiator of the transaction. Any suitable response to a transaction is preferably communicated back to the requesting entity (e.g., a third party website or an ATM machine). The requesting entity can then preferably take appropriate action. If the transaction is confirmed or approved, the transaction proceeds. If the transaction is denied or altered, the requesting entity preferably hafts or prevents the transaction. The requesting entity can preferably use the transaction response to modify a transaction state in any suitable manner. Based on the variety of responses from authentic users and\/or authorized users, rules may determine when to confirm or deny a transaction. In a variation of the method, there may be a plurality of authority devices registered for authorization and\/or authentication. A rule may be setup for which authority devices to message, in what order, and the timing of the messaging. Additionally, rules may be set for received responses. A particular threshold for the number of responses from the plurality of authority devices may be set. For example, four authority devices may be messaged for authorization and at least three must confirm the transaction for it to be confirmed. In another example, a plurality of authority devices for authentication may be registered, and the authority devices are messaged one after the other until at least one responds. The response from an authority agent may alternatively be passed on to the requesting entity with no analysis.","An alternative embodiment preferably implements the above methods in a computer-readable medium storing computer-readable instructions. The instructions are preferably executed by computer-executable components preferably integrated with an auth platform. The auth platform is preferably hosted on a distributed computing system or cloud based platform but may alternatively be hosted in any suitable system. The computer-readable medium may be stored on any suitable computer readable media such as RAMs, ROMs, flash memory, EEPROMs, optical devices (CD or DVD), hard drives, floppy drives, or any suitable device. The computer-executable component is preferably a processor but the instructions may alternatively or additionally be executed by any suitable dedicated hardware device. The auth platform preferably includes an API for third party services and devices to use in initiating transactions and interpreting responses from the auth platform. The platform preferably includes a communication channel such as a public or private network or SMS network to communicate with at least one authority device. The authority device is preferably a mobile phone but may be any suitable personal computing device.","As a person skilled in the art will recognize from the previous detailed description and from the figures and claims, modifications and changes can be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of this invention defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
