---
title: Controlled in-situ dissolution of an alkali metal
abstract: A method for the controllable dissolution of one or more alkali metals from a vessel containing a one or more alkali metals and/or one or more partially passivated alkali metals. The vessel preferably comprising a sodium, NaK or other alkali metal-cooled nuclear reactor that has been used. The alkali metal, preferably sodium, potassium or a combination thereof, in the vessel is exposed to a treatment liquid, preferably an acidic liquid, more preferably citric acid. Preferably, the treatment liquid is maintained in continuous motion relative to any surface of unreacted alkali metal with which the treatment liquid is in contact. The treatment liquid is preferably pumped into the vessel containing the one or more alkali metals and the resulting fluid is extracted and optionally further processed. Preferably, the resulting off-gases are processed by an off-gas treatment system and the resulting liquids are processed by a liquid disposal system. In one preferred embodiment, an inert gas is pumped into the vessel along with the treatment liquid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08263030&OS=08263030&RS=08263030
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 08263030
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110307
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","FIG. ","The Vessel ","Liquid Dosing System ","The Neutralizer","Inert Gas System ","Off-Gas Treatment System ","Liquid Disposal System ","Demineralized Water Delivery System ","Cooling Water Delivery System ","FIG. ","The Neutralizer Supply Tank ","The Water Supply Tank ","FIG. A","FIGS. B Through G","FIGS. A Through D","FIG. "],"p":["This U.S. non-provisional application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61\/311,714 filed Mar. 8, 2010, which is hereby fully incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE-AC07-05ID14516, between the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and CH2M-WG.","The present invention relates to the dissolution of one or more alkali metals. One preferred embodiment of the present invention is for the dissolution of sodium in a liquid metal cooled nuclear reactor.","As a liquid metal cooled nuclear reactor or its components are being decommissioned, it is desirable to remove the metal coolant in a manner that is both safe to personnel and that also meets environmental regulations for both radioactive and hazardous wastes. To this end, it is common practice to utilize a two-phase approach of (1) removing the bulk of the metal coolant from the reactor and processing the removed coolant ex-situ in a treatment system that is physically separated from the reactor, and (2) treating the residual metal coolant in-situ in the reactor vessel.","With sodium and NaK metal coolants, treatment must be done with great care, due to both safety and environmental concerns. Sodium and NaK are highly chemically reactive, generating heat and pressure; moreover, their reaction products are typically chemically hazardous and\/or flammable in air. Furthermore, their use in the high neutron flux fields of a reactor makes them radioactive and\/or causes them to accumulate radioactive fission products. Many treatment approaches have been attempted to address these safety and environmental concerns.","For aqueous treatment of sodium, the chemical reaction at standard temperature and pressure can be written as\n\nNa()+HO()\u2192NaOH()+\u00bdH()\u2003\u2003(1)\n","When the reaction is conducted in air, the heat generated by reaction (1) can be sufficient to ignite the hydrogen reaction gas. Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) is a caustic solid that is hazardous to human tissues, including skin and eyes.","For sodium coolant, there are both non-aqueous and aqueous ex-situ treatments. As an example of a non-aqueous treatment, the two-step process of dissolving the sodium in anhydrous ammonia at elevated pressure (15-200 psi) and\/or low temperature (\u221230\u00b0 C.) to form alkali metal cations and solvated electrons, followed by adding a precipitating agent to combine with the alkali metal cations as taught by Getman in U.S. Pat. No. 6,175,051. Examples of aqueous treatments include the two-step process of injecting the sodium into hot (290\u00b0 F.) caustic solution and further reacting the sodium hydroxide product with carbon dioxide and evaporating and solidifying the sodium bicarbonate product as taught by Herman in U.S. Pat. No. 5,678,240, and the injecting of sodium into hot caustic solution and then solidifying the caustic product as taught by Lewis in U.S. Pat. No. 4,032,614.","These non-aqueous and aqueous processes are not readily utilized for in-situ treatment of residual sodium, for reasons which include: (1) because the typical design of the nuclear reactor, reactor vessel, and\/or its support systems do not support the processing chemistries, physical conditions and\/or the equipment configurations required for these treatments, (2) because the two-step processes require at least two separate vessels, and are inherently therefore not suited to being performed in-situ and\/or (3) because the process results in a hazardous substance as an intermediate and\/or final product, making the process less than would be desired with regards to environmental regulations.","Treating sodium with a concentrated sodium hydroxide solution at room temperature has been found by the inventors to proceed slowly and relatively safely, but with the tendency to build up a white layer of solid material, presumably solid sodium hydroxide, and slow to the degree where the rate becomes undesirably low (as low as 2 mm of sodium depth reacted in 30 days). This slowing of the reaction rate as a consequence of increased concentration of reaction product at the sodium reaction surface is termed \u201cliquid passivation\u201d.","A process previously taught by Sherman in U.S. Pat. No. 6,919,061 discusses reacting sodium with moist carbon dioxide gas to produce a surface layer of sodium bicarbonate, termed \u201cgaseous passivation\u201d. This process is relatively safe but proceeds at a rate inversely proportional to the thickness of the sodium bicarbonate layer (ref. ), and as a result the reaction becomes effectively self-limiting and undesirably incomplete in treating residual sodium that exists in thicker deposits.","Treating a sodium residue in-situ and relatively slowly (compared to aqueous treatment) with wet (water) vapor nitrogen and\/or with wet (saturated) steam is known to start out proceeding in a relatively safe and controllable manner, but becomes undesirably uncontrollable, due to buildup of sodium hydroxide reaction product interposing at the interface between the sodium residue and the reactant gas. The sodium hydroxide reaction product tends to impede the reaction at the sodium interface, but at the gas interface and with continued treatment its hygroscopic nature attracts and condenses water, which builds up and then reacts suddenly and uncontrollably with underlying sodium when cracks develop in the interposing sodium hydroxide layer.","It is therefore the object of one embodiment of the present invention to provide the heretofore unattained benefits of safe and complete in-situ treatment of one or more alkali metals, without the generation of hazardous products as either intermediate or final products of treatment.","A method for the controllable dissolution of one or more alkali metals from a vessel containing a one or more alkali metals and\/or one or more partially passivated alkali metals. The vessel preferably comprises a sodium, NaK, or other alkali metal-cooled nuclear reactor that has been used and therefore further comprises fission products (e.g. radioactive actinides, rare earth metals, etc.) The alkali metal, preferably sodium, potassium or a combination thereof, in the vessel is exposed to a treatment liquid, the treatment liquid comprising a neutralizer. Preferably, the treatment liquid is maintained in continuous motion relative to any surface of unreacted alkali metal with which the treatment liquid is in contact. Preferably, the neutralizer comprises water and a liquid reactant that reacts with the alkali metal and dissolves the alkali metal salt reaction product of the alkali metal. In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water, an aliphatic alcohol and\/or other liquid reactant that is capable of both reacting with alkali metal as well as dissolving the alkali metal salt reaction product. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprises an acidic liquid.","The treatment liquid is preferably pumped into the vessel containing the one or more alkali metals and the resulting fluid is extracted and optionally further processed. Preferably, the resulting off-gases are processed by an off-gas treatment system and the resulting liquids are processed by a liquid disposal system. In one preferred embodiment, an inert gas is pumped into the vessel along with the treatment liquid,","A method for the controllable dissolution of one or more alkali metals from a vessel containing a one or more alkali metals and\/or one or more partially passivated alkali metals. The vessel preferably comprises a sodium, NaK, or other alkali metal-cooled nuclear reactor that has been used and therefore further comprises fission products (e.g. radioactive actinides, rare earth metals, etc.) The alkali metal, preferably sodium, potassium or a combination thereof, in the vessel is exposed to a treatment liquid, the treatment liquid comprising a neutralizer. Preferably, the treatment liquid is maintained in continuous motion relative to any surface of unreacted alkali metal with which the treatment liquid is in contact. Preferably, the neutralizer comprises water and a liquid reactant that reacts with the alkali metal and dissolves the alkali metal salt reaction product of the alkali metal. In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water, an aliphatic alcohol and\/or other liquid reactant that is capable of both reacting with alkali metal as well as dissolving the alkali metal salt reaction product. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprises an acidic liquid.","The treatment liquid is preferably pumped into the vessel containing the one or more alkali metals and the resulting fluid is extracted and optionally further processed. Preferably, the resulting off-gases are processed by an off-gas treatment system and the resulting liquids are processed by a liquid disposal system. In one preferred embodiment, an inert gas is pumped into the vessel along with the treatment liquid,","In one embodiment, a treatment liquid is delivered in a controlled manner so that any gases and\/or heat generated by a chemical reaction between the treatment liquid and one or more alkali metals are released in a manner that avoids pressure and temperature increases to the extent that might risk rupturing or otherwise breaching the integrity of the vessel, avoids buildup of interposing solid reaction product layers and\/or dissolves pre-existing solid reaction product layers, and when the treatment liquid is reacted with the one or more alkali metals and other contents of the vessel, produces a reaction product that meets the criteria for non-hazardous chemical waste, preferably having a pH ranging from between 2 and 12.5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1","5","5","5","3","11","5","7","5","5","9","13","15","7"]},"The vessel  is any vessel comprising one or more alkali metals, preferably sodium. The vessel  may comprise a tank, piping and\/or one or more alkali metal-bearing components. Preferably, the vessel  comprises a primary alkali metal circulation system utilized in one or more steps of the transfer of heat from a nuclear reactor to an electrical generator (e.g., steam generator). In an alternate embodiment, the vessel  comprises a primary alkali metal circulation system and a secondary alkali metal circulation system utilized in one or more steps of the transfer of heat from a nuclear reactor to an electrical generator (e.g., steam generator). Preferably, the primary alkali metal circulation system draws thermal energy in the form of heat away from the nuclear reactor and comprises a primary vessel, a reactor core, and a primary circulation pump. If a secondary alkali metal circulation system is also utilized, preferably an intermediate heat exchanger is also employed to transfer heat from the primary circulation system to the secondary circulation system. The secondary alkali metal circulation system, if utilized, preferably comprises a secondary alkali circulation pump, steam evaporators, steam superheaters, a surge tank, and\/or a secondary alkali metal drain tank. The primary and secondary alkali circulation systems may also comprise alkali-metal-containing components and\/or piping contained therein and\/or communicating therewith. The Experimental Breeder Reactor II (EBR-II) at the Materials and Fuels Complex at Idaho National Laboratory, which is currently undergoing decontamination and decommissioning, is one example of a vessel .","The liquid dosing system  provides a treatment liquid for dissolving alkali metal within the vessel . Preferably, the liquid dosing system  comprises one or more tanks of a neutralizer (see ). In one embodiment, the liquid dosing system  comprises a liquid pump, preferably driven by an electromagnetic motor. In a preferred embodiment, the liquid dosing system  comprises a pump in combination with a variable speed drive, a flow meter, a check valve and a solenoid valve, which in combination provide uni-directional, precise dosing capability of the treatment liquid to the vessel . In a preferred embodiment, liquid dosing system  also provides a means for readily varying the concentration of aqueous, acidic liquid in the treatment liquid delivered to vessel .","Preferably, the liquid dosing system  delivers the treatment liquid to a lower section of the vessel  (for example A in ). As the vessel  fills with the treatment liquid, gases (ambient air, any gases already existing in the vessel , inert gas, or reaction product gas, or any other gas) is preferably vented through one or more vents. Preferably, once the gases in the lower section of the vessel  are vented, the one or more vents in the lower section of the vessel  are closed. Preferably, about all gases are vented out of the vessel  and the treatment liquid fills the entire lower section of the vessel .","Preferably, liquids within the vessel  are in maintained in continuous motion relative to any surface of unreacted alkali metal with which the treatment liquid is in contact in order to prevent the buildup of reaction products, which buildup of reaction products prevent the controlled dissolution of the alkali metal. The buildup of reaction products, for example sodium hydroxide, is particularly dangerous as it will prevent the controlled reaction of the alkali metal, for example if an incompletely reacted portion of alkali metal becomes submerged within a section of vessel  and the section becomes filled with liquid, the sudden reaction of the previously incompletely reacted portion of alkali metal generates pressure that is not readily dissipated in a submerged condition, thus generating localized pressure that might cause an unwanted breach of vessel , releasing hazardous and potentially explosive gases into the surrounding area. In one embodiment, the liquid dosing system  provides the treatment liquid within the vessel  in a continuous fashion whereby fluid in the vessel  is maintained in maintained in continuous motion. In a preferred embodiment, an inert gas is delivered into the lower section of the vessel . Delivering an inert gas into the lower section of the vessel  before the entire lower section of the vessel  has been substantially filled with the treatment liquid may be preferable as it will help sweep away any reactive gases. For example, the hydrogen concentration in the gas(es) within vessel  is preferably reduced to levels below 4% by volume (the lower explosion limit of hydrogen in air) near the end of treatment in order to reduce the potential for explosion after the treated system is in communication with air. More preferably, the hydrogen concentration is reduced to levels below 1% by volume near the end of treatment. Preferably, the inert gas is delivered into the lower section of the vessel  after the entire lower section of the vessel  has been substantially filled with the treatment liquid, as the inert gas will aid in the stirring the liquids near any residual alkali metal remaining in the vessel . Preferably, gases are vented in an upper section of the vessel , until the entire vessel  is filled with the treatment liquid. Once the entire vessel  has been filled with the treatment liquid, and the treatment liquid and any alkali metal in the vessel  have sufficiently reacted, the treatment liquid is extracted.","The neutralizer supplied by the liquid dosing system  comprises a liquid reactant that is capable of reacting with alkali metal, producing a reaction product, and dissolving the reaction product. Preferably, the reaction product comprises an alkali metal cation and an anion and has a pH of less than 12.5. In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises aqueous acid. In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water and liquid reactant. Preferably, the liquid reactant comprises one or more aqueous acids, an aliphatic alcohol, salt of an acid, or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the liquid reactant comprises (sulfuric acid and sodium sulfate), (acetic acid and sodium acetate), (citric acid and sodium citrate), or combinations thereof. In yet another alternate embodiment, the neutralizer comprises one or more liquid reactants that are capable of reacting with alkali metal as well as dissolving an alkali metal salt reaction product. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprises an aqueous acid and\/or a salt of an acid. Preferably, the aqueous acid and salt is sulfuric acid and sodium sulfate, acetic acid and sodium acetate, citric acid and sodium citrate, or combinations thereof.","In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water and a dissolved acid, a dissolved buffer (acid and salt), or a combination thereof. Preferably, the dissolved buffer is (sulfuric acid and sodium sulfate), (acetic acid and sodium acetate), (citric acid and sodium citrate), or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprises an acetic acid and acetic acid\/sodium acetate buffer of about (total acid plus salt concentration) 0.2 to 4.0 moles per liter, with a preferred range of 0.6 to 2.0 moles per liter.","The preferred embodiment of the neutralizer employs citric acid, due to its being triprotic, its low corrosivity, and its having relatively neutral pKa's (3.1, 4.8 and 6.4). Preferably, the citric acid is introduced into the vessel , either alone or in combination with its salt, at a concentration of from about (total acid plus salt concentration) 0.1 to 3.0 moles per liter, and preferably at a concentration of about 0.5 to 1.5 moles per liter.","Neutralizers that contain citric acid and\/or buffer concentrations preferably are no less dilute than about 0.1 moles per liter, in order to avoidan undesirably large quantity of neutralizer to obtain a reaction product pH that is in the environmentally desired range that would categorize the reaction product as non-hazardous. For example, one preferred embodiment at EBR-II results in a reaction product pH that is from between 2 and 12.5, which range qualifies environmentally as non-hazardous from a chemical standpoint (radioactivity issues aside). Neutralizers that contain citric acid and\/or buffer concentrations preferably have citric acid concentrations less than about 3.0 moles per liter, in order to avoid an undesirably large amount precipitation of solids in the reaction product, which are undesirable from the standpoint that they complicate removal of chemical reaction products and also from the standpoint that they tend to interfere with liquid flow, increasing the risk of the previously mentioned liquid reaction passivation.","The inert gas system  provides one or more inert gases to the vessel  to reduce the concentration of flammable gases and\/or explosive mixtures of gases. In one embodiment, the inert gas system  is a gas cylinder. In a preferred embodiment, the inert gas system  is a cryogenic Dewar with an evaporator, which in tandem provide inert gas to the vessel  of the alkali metal treatment system . Preferably, the inert gas system  provides nitrogen, argon, or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the inert gas system  provides nitrogen.","The off-gas treatment system  processes any reaction gases resulting from the reaction between the treatment liquid and contents of the vessel . For example, in the preferred embodiment, where the one or more alkali metals is sodium, the off-gas treatment system  processes sodium and\/or sodium bicarbonate, and suspended solids including sodium hydroxide generated by the reaction of the sodium metal with the treatment liquid, as well as the inert gases introduced and passed through the vessel . Preferably, the off-gas treatment system  provides safety for personnel in the vicinity of alkali metal treatment system  by removing hazardous chemicals such as sodium hydroxide and\/or radioactive particles, preferably by means including, but not limited to, scrubbing and\/or filtering the off-gas stream leaving the vessel  during alkali metal treatment. Preferably, the off-gas treatment system  comprises a means for reducing the off-gas temperature, including, but not limited to, one or more heat exchangers, as well as a cooling fluid, preferably a cooling water stream delivered by cooling water system . Preferably, the off-gas treatment system  comprises a demineralized water stream from the demineralized water delivery system  for use in the scrubbing means.","The liquid disposal system  of  provides for removal of the reaction product resulting from the chemical reaction between and physical mixing of the treatment liquid with alkali metal and possibly other contents of the vessel , and preferably comprises a pump and piping. In one embodiment, the liquid disposal system  comprises a disposal means including, but not limited to, evaporators, tanker trucks, mixers, oxidation and\/or other reactors, and\/or filter beds.","The demineralized water delivery system  of a preferred embodiment of alkali metal treatment system  provides for the supply of water containing limited concentrations of dissolved solids to off-gas treatment system , and may comprise a deionized water ion exchange system or a reverse osmosis purification system.","The cooling water delivery system  of another preferred embodiment of alkali metal treatment system  provides for delivery of cooling water to be utilized by off-gas treatment system  for the removal of heat from the off-gas stream leaving the vessel  during alkali metal treatment. The cooling water temperature is preferably reduced by means of a chiller system which may comprise or include an evaporating tower, a refrigerant loop, and\/or using a relatively cool underground water supply.","With reference to , further details are depicted of one embodiment of the liquid dosing system  shown in . As shown in , the liquid dosing system  comprises a neutralizer supply tank , a neutralizer delivery pump , a neutralizer flow meter , and a neutralizer check valve . Preferably, the neutralizer is a neutralizer as described above. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water and an acid. In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer comprising water and an acid dynamically mixed with a second stream of water to provide a treatment liquid as depicted by treatment liquid stream  and the system additionally comprises a water supply tank , a water delivery pump , a water flow meter  and a water check valve .","In the alternative, for embodiments whereby the alkali metal is sodium, the neutralizer comprises water and the neutralizer is delivered into vessel  of  at a volume ratio to sodium of least about 1335:1.","The neutralizer supply tank  contents comprise water as an alkali metal reactant, but may also comprise for example, but not limited to, ethanol, other aliphatic alcohols, or other liquids commonly used in the treatment of residual alkali metal. In one embodiment, the neutralizer comprises water and a dissolved acid, a dissolved buffer (acid and salt), or a combination thereof.","The preferred embodiment of the neutralizer in the neutralizer supply tank  employs citric acid, due to its being triprotic, its low corrosivity, and its having relatively neutral pKa's (3.1, 4.8 and 6.4). The citric acid is introduced into the vessel  of  at a concentration of from about 0.1 to 3.0 moles per liter, and preferably at a concentration of about 0.5 to 1.5 moles per liter.","As further depicted in , the preferred embodiment of liquid dosing system  also includes heater  and neutralizer temperature indicator , which are used to control the temperature of the neutralizer solution. This temperature control is advantageous not only from the standpoint of consistently obtaining desired reaction times during treatment of alkali metal, but also from the standpoint of detecting zones of unreacted, reacting or cleared alkali metal as will be described later in conjunction with .","As further depicted in , liquid dosing system  also preferably includes neutralizer flow control valve , flow meter  and solenoid valve , which in combination with neutralizer supply tank  and neutralizer delivery pump , are used to deliver both a controlled flow rate and dose duration and\/or volume of neutralizer to the vessel  of . In a preferred embodiment, the neutralizer delivery pump  comprises a centrifugal pump, and the neutralizer flow meter  also includes a totalizing capability, either within neutralizer flow meter  or in combination with other equipment (e.g., electronic computation device). Alternative means for delivering controlled doses of neutralizer, such as using a positive displacement pump in place of neutralizer delivery pump  and solenoid valve  may also be utilized. The preferred embodiment also includes neutralizer check valve , which is used to prevent backflow of reaction product, along with any radioactive contents, towards neutralizer supply tank .","The preferred embodiment also comprises, as depicted in , an additional water supply means. In this embodiment, a water supply tank  provides water to be mixed with the neutralizer solution to provide a premixed treatment liquid to be delivered to vessel  of . With functions and alternatives similar to those described above for neutralizer delivery, the apparatus preferably includes water delivery pump , water flow control valve , water flow meter  and water check valve . This water supply means allows the benefit of readily altering the acid concentration of the treatment liquid, for example by varying the ratio of flow of acid as measured by utilization of flow meter  and delivered by neutralizer delivery pump  to vessel  of , the which concentration altering may be advantageous due to varying circumstances, including varying alkali metal to volume ratio encountered in vessel  of .","For a vessel  of  that has very small amounts of residual alkali metal in proportion to the volume of vessel  of , which alkali metal may reside not only on the vessel floor but also on the walls and on the inside of the top of vessel  of , preferably, a treatment liquid of relatively low acid concentration is used, since only a relatively small amount of acid is required to obtain the desired pH in the reaction product. For a vessel  of  that still has a substantial quantity of residual alkali metal, preferably, a treatment liquid of relatively high acid concentration is used, whereby it both provides for completely reacting with the residual alkali metal and also in that it provides for a relatively low volume of reaction product.","With reference to , further details are depicted of one embodiment of the vessel  shown in . For this embodiment, the treatment flow path, defined as the path liquid takes between a point where treatment liquid is introduced into vessel  and a point from which reaction product is removed from vessel , is relatively unobstructed. In a preferred embodiment, treatment liquid  is metered, dosed and\/or otherwise controlled so that the ratio of the reactive surface area to minimum vessel cross-sectional area is less than unity, the ratio being defined as the area of contact between residual alkali metal  and treatment liquid  within vessel  at any given time during treatment of the residual alkali metal  to the minimum cross-sectional area of vessel  along and normal to the treatment flow path, the ratio preferably being less than 90%, and the ratio being preferably less than 50%, and the ratio being most preferably less than 10%.","A treatment liquid  is delivered to vessel , which is depicted for this embodiment as a pipe with bends, including a lower section A and an upper section B. The treatment liquid  contacts and reacts with residual alkali metal , said reaction generating both reaction product  and an off-gas stream depicted by a first gas flow arrow , which follows the path of least resistance and exits the vessel  via a first gas vent  that communicates with off-gas treatment system  of . Preferably a second gas vent  is further provided that also communicates with off-gas treatment system  of , allowing for exhaust of a second off-gas stream as depicted by a second gas flow arrow  via the second gas vent . Preferably, a pressure relief device, depicted as pressure relief  is provided in communication with vessel  and in communication with relief vent piping (not shown) for the purpose of protecting vessel  from overpressure and for venting relief effluent to the atmosphere at a safe distance from personnel and equipment.","By means of monitoring physical parameters of the chemical reaction between the treatment liquid  and the residual alkali metal , feedback is provided for controlling the treatment liquid  dose volume and\/or flow rate. Flow of treatment liquid  into vessel  is controlled by manipulation of liquid inlet valve , which is in communication with vessel inlet , and in combination with manipulation of neutralizer delivery pump , neutralizer flow control valve  solenoid valve  and utilizing feedback from neutralizer flow meter , and also preferably by manipulation of water delivery pump , water flow control valve  and utilizing feedback from water flow meter .","In an alternative embodiment, a means comprising an auxiliary pump (not shown) and additional piping and valve(s) are utilized for recirculating reaction product  from vessel outlet  to be combined with or reused as treatment liquid . Flow of reaction product  leaving vessel  and to disposal system  of  is controlled by preferably utilizing liquid drain valve  either in combination with gravity or in combination by providing a liquid drain pump (not shown) that is in communication both with a vessel outlet  of vessel  and also with disposal system  of .","Feedback utilized to control the flow and\/or dose of treatment liquid  into and out of vessel  is provided by utilizing measured parameters that include but are not limited to additional items represented in , such as a vessel temperature indicator , a vessel pressure indicator , pH indicator  and\/or measurements of additional parameters provided by other means such as a conductivity meter, an electrochemical cell, an acoustic noise indicator, a vibration indicator, and\/or a spectral imaging indicator (not shown). Other feedback parameters utilized for controlling delivery of treatment liquid  are measured in off-gas treatment system  of  and will be discussed below in connection with .","Preferably, the vessel temperature indicator  is a thermocouple, a thermistor, a light (e.g. laser) based temperature probe, a sound (e.g. ultrasound) based temperature probe, variants thereof, or a combination thereof. Preferably, the vessel temperature indicator  comprise an infrared camera with video display, whereby individuals or automated equipment controlling the flow of treatment liquid  to vessel  can readily detect contact of treatment liquid  with the walls of vessel  (due to the local differences in surface temperature of vessel  caused by differences between the temperatures of treatment liquid  and vessel ), flow blockages within vessel  (due to the blockage of flow by and\/or diversion of treatment liquid  around obstacles as observed by temperature patterns on the external surface of vessel ), and\/or zone(s) of chemical reactions of treatment liquid  with residual alkali metal  (by heat generated at the reaction interface transferring to the exterior walls of vessel ).","Changes in values indicated by the vessel temperature indicator , vessel pressure indicator , and\/or pH indicator  may all be utilized to assess the location(s) of reaction, the location of the treatment liquid  within vessel , the rate of reaction and\/or the degree of completion of the reaction of the residual alkali metal  with treatment liquid .","Also depicted in , in one embodiment, the handling of gases into, through and out of vessel  is provided for by a first gas inlet  in communication with a first gas inlet valve  and with inert gas system  of , as well as by a first gas vent valve  in communication with the first gas vent  and off-gas treatment system  of . Preferably also provided are a second gas inlet  in communication with a second gas inlet valve  and with inert gas system  of  and a second gas vent valve  in communication with the second gas vent  and with off-gas system  of .","In this embodiment when the first gas inlet valve  is at least partially open and first gas vent valve  is fully open, the gas introduced into vessel , gases generated by the reaction of treatment liquid  with residual alkali metal  and reaction products suspended in the gases within vessel  are exhausted through first gas vent  as depicted generally by first gas flow arrow .","In this embodiment, when the second gas inlet valve  is at least partially open and second gas vent valve  is fully open, the gas introduced into vessel , gases generated by the reaction of treatment liquid  with residual alkali metal  and reaction products suspended in the gases within vessel  are exhausted through second gas vent , as depicted generally by second gas flow arrow . Provision is also preferably made for allowing for reversing the flow between first gas inlet  and second gas inlet  by periodically closing first gas inlet valve  and allowing at least some of the gases introduced through second gas inlet  to flow towards first gas vent , and alternatingly re-opening first gas inlet valve  and closing second gas inlet valve  and allowing at least some of the gases introduced through first gas inlet  to flow towards second gas vent .","To provide the benefit of safe operation, the preferred embodiment includes the monitoring vessel pressure indicator  and controlling the rate of flow and\/or dosing quantity of the treatment liquid  so that the pressure exerted by liquids and gases within the vessel do not exceed the design pressure of vessel . Similarly the preferred embodiment includes monitoring the vessel temperature indicator  and controlling the rate of flow and\/or dosing quantity of treatment liquid  so that the temperature generated by the treatment reaction does not exceed the design temperature of vessel .","With reference to  through , depiction is provided of a sequence of six stages, representing configurations of the contents of vessel  during a second step of the embodiment of the invention for the case where there is a relatively clear treatment path, and after a substantial portion of the residual alkali metal  has been reacted as discussed with reference to . For this embodiment, instrumentation and valving is substantially similar to that depicted in  and utilized substantially in the same manner as discussed regarding ; however, for the purposes of clarity said instrumentation and valving is omitted from these figures.","For a first stage of the second step, and referring to , drain valve  (in communication with vessel  as shown in ) is turned down or closed and additional treatment liquid  is delivered into vessel  and reaction product  is allowed to accumulate in vessel . This accumulation allows additional treatment liquid  and\/or reaction product  to newly contact surfaces to which possible untreated residual alkali metal may still adhere, while still continuing to allow for relatively unrestricted flow of reaction gas as depicted generally by first gas flow arrow  and second gas flow arrow .","For a second stage and referring to , further accumulation of liquids (treatment liquid , reaction product , residual alkali metal , other fluids, or a combination thereof) results in liquids preventing the direct flow of gases between the second gas inlet  and second gas vent . Preferably, during the second stage, second gas inlet valve  () is closed to stop the flow of inert gas to second gas inlet  (). Preferably, a second headgas vent  at the second gas inlet  is provided for venting a small gas headspace  in second gas inlet , in order to allow substantially all unreacted alkali metal on the surfaces of vessel  that reside in the vicinity of gas inlet  to be treated.","Referring to  and during a third stage, after venting of the small gas headspace  from the second headgas vent  of the second gas inlet  is substantially complete and the second headgas vent  is closed, and after venting of a small gas headspace  from the second gas vent  is substantially complete the second gas vent valve  () is closed. To more fully treat residual alkali metal adhering to the upper inside surfaces of vessel , preferably the gas bubbler valve  is opened, and an inert gas is introduced into vessel . The inert gas flows along a flow path as generally depicted by gas bubble path  and the motion and buoyancy of the gas bubbles aids in stirring the liquids near any residual alkali metal remaining on a first upper surface A located in the lower section A. As treatment liquid  continues to be added to vessel , the reaction zone where treatment of alkali metal occurs becomes primarily located near the interface  between the treatment liquid  and the reaction product . The reaction zone and interface  gradually move upwards and extend horizontally around the perimeter of vessel  as the liquid level moves into a vertical section  of vessel . Gas introduced along gas flow path  combines with the gases flowing as depicted by first gas flow arrow , and exits vessel  via the first gas vent .","During a fourth stage and referring to , delivery of additional treatment liquid  is provided, and the interface  enters the upper section B of vessel . Preferably, inert gas continues to be introduced via gas bubbler valve , and continues to flow as generally depicted by gas flow path , aiding in removing any residual alkali metal that still resides in vertical section .","During a fifth stage and referring to , interface  substantially disappears due to the submersion of vessel inlet , first gas inlet  and first gas vent  are substantially separated from communicating with each other via gas flow (or, if residual alikali metal is present on second upper surface B, first gas inlet  and first gas vent  preferably continues to communicate as bubbles flow along upper section B, after which gas flow through first gas inlet  is shut-off by closing first gas inlet valve  (FIG. A)), gas bubbler valve  is closed, and a small gas headspace  in first gas inlet  is vented via a first headgas vent , and a small gas headspace  in first gas vent  is vented.","In stage  and referring to , the first headgas vent  is closed after the small headspace in first gas inlet  has been exhausted. The first gas vent valve  () is closed after the small headspace in first gas vent  has been exhausted. Simultaneous with or prior to the closing of the last outlet valve through which the treatment liquid and\/or gas exit vessel , flow of treatment liquid  is also stopped by closing liquid inlet valve , and vessel  is substantially filled and the alkali metal contained therein is substantially reacted.","With reference to , an embodiment of the invention is depicted wherein the treatment flow path is obstructed with untreated alkali metal. In  a vessel  is depicted in partial view with similar configuration to the lower part of vessel  depicted in . Inside vessel  a volume of blocking alkali metal  is contained that substantially blocks a preferred treatment path as indicated approximately by treatment path arrow  of vessel . In this embodiment, a vessel outlet  is preferably used for reaction product removal from vessel  and a vent  is preferably used for removal of product\/and or inert gas(es) from vessel . Also, preferably a temperature indicator  near blocking alkali metal , a pH indicator  near vessel outlet , and a pressure indicator near vent  are also provided in this embodiment. Conditions that lead to such blockages include, but are not limited to, an uninsulated pipe support removing heat during bulk alkali metal removal from vessel , such heat removal causing local freezing of alkali metal that would otherwise freely drain. Means for detecting the presence of such blockages preferably comprise radiographic inspection and\/or boroscopic inspection, and may also include but is not limited to ultrasonics and\/or gas flow testing. By the preferred means of threaded or flanged connection, but also optionally by means including but not limited to cutting and welding, an attachment  is brought into communication with vessel  and into communication with liquid disposal system  of . Attachment  preferably includes an auxiliary liquid drain  in communication with an auxiliary drain valve  that is also in communication with liquid disposal system  of , an auxiliary gas inlet  in communication with an auxiliary gas inlet valve  that is also in communication with inert gas system  of , and a treatment injector , which is preferably in communication with and in a positionally adjustable connection  to attachment . Connection  preferably comprises a flange with integral sleeve joint , which sleeve joint preferably comprises a compression fitting, which compression fitting preferably provides both the function of slidable adjustment of the position of treatment injector  as well as the function of sealing between the outer perimeter of treatment injector and the mating interior circumference of sleeve joint . Preferably, treatment injector  is also provided with flexible means (not depicted) of communication with neutralizer dosing system  of , and also provided with a shutoff valve  for the purpose of isolating vessel  from neutralizer dosing system  of .","As depicted in , a first stage of treatment for this embodiment is provided by preferably slidably advancing the treatment injector  towards blocking alkali metal , tightening the sleeve , opening isolation valve , and delivering treatment liquid to the surface of blocking alkali metal , via preferably a spray or jet nozzle (not shown) near the end of treatment injector , utilizing the quantity and flow control provided by liquid dosing system  as previously discussed with reference to FIG. , and utilizing feedback from temperature indicator , pH indicator , pressure indicator , hydrogen concentration as measured by off-gas treatment system  of  as described in more detail with reference to  below, and\/or additional feedback parameters as previously discussed.","As depicted in , a second stage of treatment of this embodiment is provided by preferably slidably advancing and securing treatment injector  as described previously, and delivering additional treatment liquid to the surface of blocking alkali metal , until enough of the blocking alkali metal  has been removed to allow a substantially cleared treatment path approximately depicted by treatment path arrow .","As shown in , once the blocking alkali metal  (shown in ) has been removed, treatment of the remainder of residual alkali metal in vessel  preferably proceeds according to the approach previously described for the embodiment of the invention discussed in connection with .","With reference to , an embodiment of off-gas treatment system  is depicted for treating the reaction gas vented in vessel exhaust  from vessel  during treatment. Preferably, off-gas treatment system  comprises a scrubber  and high efficiency particulate absorbing (HEPA) filter . The scrubber  preferably provides means for removing from the reaction gas stream caustic and\/or other hazardous particles that result from the reaction of the treatment liquid with the residual alkali metal and which become suspended in the reaction gas stream and\/or any soluble vapors (including but not limited to, for example, alcohols).","The HEPA filter  provides means for removing particulate material down to a very fine particle size, and is preferably included in off-gas system  for the embodiment where the residual alkali metal to be treated is radioactive and\/or resides in a radioactive environment. Preferably off-gas treatment system  further provides means for reducing the temperature of gases vented via vessel exhaust , preferably by means of a first chilled condenser , for the purposes of sustaining the useful operating life of scrubber , for reducing the evaporation rate of solution in scrubber , and\/or for cooling the reaction gas below the ignition point of any flammable gases (e.g., hydrogen and\/or alcohol vapors) contained therein prior to said flammable gases are vented to atmosphere. Additionally, off-gas treatment system  further provides means for reducing relative humidity in the reaction gas flowing through vessel exhaust , as depicted by preferably providing a second chilled condenser  and a gas heater , which humidity is deleterious to the effectiveness of HEPA filter .","Off-gas treatment system  preferably further provides means for measuring hydrogen, oxygen and carbon dioxide as depicted by a hydrogen indicator , an oxygen indicator , and a carbon dioxide indicator , respectively. Hydrogen indicator , preferably in conjunction with use of an off-gas exhaust flow meter , is preferably used to quantify progress of the reaction of treatment liquid with residual alkali metal. Oxygen level measured by oxygen indicator  is preferably maintained by treatment system  at or below 1% by volume, in order to stay well below the limits at which, in combination with presence of hydrogen gas, a potentially flammable or explosive condition may result. Carbon dioxide level measured by carbon dioxide indicator  is preferably used to indicate the reaction of acid(s) with alkali metal bicarbonate produced by a previous gaseous alkali metal passivation step.","The off-gas treatment system  preferably comprises an off-gas inert supply stream  to supplement flow of inert gas(es) delivered to vessel , preferably metered by means depicted as off-gas inert supply valve  in combination with off-gas inert supply flow indicator . The supplemental flow of inert gas provides for added assurance that a flow of exhaust gas as indicated by an off-gas exhaust flow indicator  does not become negative (i.e., flow towards treatment vessel ) and\/or assurance that the pressure as indicated by off-gas exhaust pressure indicator  does not become negative, which negative flow and\/or pressure could result in mixing of undesired levels of airborne oxygen with hydrogen and\/or other flammable gases conducted within off-gas treatment system  or vessel .","The off-gas system  preferably further provides nitrogen off-gas surge valve  for rapid delivery of inert gas at a rapid rate (a preferred embodiment utilizing a solenoid-operated valve in conjunction with an orifice restrictor), the rapid delivery being provided in an embodiment where rapid pressure reductions within off-gas treatment system  or within vessel  are encountered. Off-gas treatment system also preferably comprises means depicted by an off-gas inert check valve  for preventing reverse flow of potentially radioactive or potentially hazardous materials from flowing upstream into off-gas inert supply stream .","Off-gas treatment system  preferably further comprises one or more instruments and\/or equipment as described, depicted as means for providing the following: a sight glass  provided for viewing by an operator of treatment system  of smoke generated by the reaction of residual alkali metal; an off-gas inlet relative humidity indicator , preferably with integrated off-gas inlet temperature indicator , provided for quantifying the moisture and\/or temperature of first chilled condenser gas feed ; a scrubber gas feed temperature indicator  providing measurement of the temperature of a scrubber gas feed  and thereby monitoring effectiveness of first chilled condenser ; an acid holding tank  in combination with an acid dosing pump , provided for supplying of an acidic solution for neutralizing caustic reaction product captured in scrubber , for maintaining the pH to preferably between 4 and 8 of solution contained within scrubber , as measured by a scrubber solution pH indicator , and circulated by means of a scrubber recirculation pump ; a scrubber solution temperature indicator  for maintaining the solution contained within scrubber  below the temperature limits required for effective operation and longevity of scrubber , preferably below 180 degrees Fahrenheit; a scrubber solution conductivity meter  for maintaining the total dissolved solids content below the limit that would precipitate solids within scrubber , preferably below 50 grams per liter, the conductivity of the solution within scrubber  being adjusted by providing fresh water from demineralized water delivery system  of  via demineralized water supply check valve  and demineralized water supply valve , and maintaining total volume of solution within scrubber  by periodic opening of a scrubber blow-down valve  and discharging solution from scrubber  preferably to liquid disposal system  of ; scrubber gas differential pressure indicator  in communication with scrubber gas feed  via upstream scrubber tap  and in communication with scrubber gas exhaust  via downstream scrubber tap  for monitoring the possible blocking of gas flow passage through scrubber ; a scrubber gas exhaust relative humidity indicator , preferably with scrubber gas exhaust integrated temperature indicator , provided for the quantifying of moisture content and\/or temperature of scrubber gas exhaust  and thereby the degree of contact of gases fed via scrubber gas feed to scrubber ; a heater gas feed temperature indicator  for quantifying the temperature of heater gas feed  and thereby monitoring the effectiveness of second chilled condenser ; a first condenser flow indicator  for measuring flow of cooling water from cooling water delivery system  of  via a cooling water supply stream  and first condenser coolant feed  to first chilled condenser ; a second condenser flow indicator  for measuring flow of cooling water from cooling water delivery system  of  via cooling water supply stream  and a second condenser coolant feed  to second chilled condenser ; a first condenser coolant discharge  for conducting spent cooling water from first chilled condenser  to a drain conduit  preferably via combined coolant discharge ; a second condenser coolant discharge  for conducting spent cooling water from second chilled condenser  to drain conduit  preferably via combined coolant discharge ; an off-gas exhaust relative humidity indicator  preferably in conjunction with an off-gas exhaust temperature indicator , for monitoring effectiveness of gas heater ; an off-gas exhaust pressure indicator  for monitoring pressure drop via comparison with indication of pressure(s) within vessel  and for indication of pressure within off-gas treatment system  during pressure testing thereof; HEPA filter differential pressure indicator  in communication with HEPA gas feed  via HEPA filter upstream tap  and in communication with off-gas outlet line  via HEPA filter downstream tap ; off-gas CAM sample port  for continuous air monitoring (CAM) of radioactivity for monitoring of the effectiveness of HEPA filter ; off-gas sample line  for the communication of sample gases from off-gas outlet line  to off-gas exhaust oxygen indicator  and\/or off-gas exhaust carbon dioxide indicator ; an off-gas exhaust sample isolation valve for isolating downstream instruments for maintenance, calibration and\/or during pressure testing of off-gas treatment system ; an off-gas exhaust sample dryer  for removing moisture from gases traveling via off-gas sample line  and thereby providing protection of downstream instrument(s); an off-gas sample vent  preferably in communication with the outdoors for venting of gases flow through off-gas exhaust sample line  along with any flammable gases contained therein; an off-gas exhaust outlet check valve  for prevention of back-flow of air and\/or other gases into off-gas treatment system ; an off-gas exhaust outlet isolation valve  for isolation and\/or pressure testing of off-gas treatment system ; a blower  and a gap  between an off-gas outlet termination  and blower inlet  (having preferably at least twice the cross-sectional area of off-gas outlet termination ) for entrainment of outside air, mixing of the air with exhaust from off-gas treatment system  and thereby reducing the concentration of hydrogen and\/or other flammable gas(es), preferably to less than 25% of the lower explosion limit of the hydrogen and\/or other flammable gas(es); a blower vent for the discharge of the mixed air and for conducting the exhaust to a safe distance from personnel and\/or sources of ignition; a ventilation fan  with motor (not shown) in communication with the inside of the building or enclosure (not shown) within which off-gas treatment system  is housed for removing hydrogen and\/or flammable gas(es) leaking from off-gas treatment system ; a ventilation fan run indicator  for monitoring the motor status of ventilation fan ; a ventilation fan flow indicator  for monitoring the flow status of exhaust from ventilation fan ; and a control system emergency power off switch  for cutting off power to neutralizer delivery pump  and water delivery pump  in the event of an emergency. As a preferred alternative to the three-fold combination of blower inlet , blower  and blower vent , a pipe or stack (e.g., terminating 25 feet above ground level\u2014not shown) is provided as an extension of termination , in communication with a diffuser (e.g., horizontal tee with perforations\u2014not shown) as a means of safely dispersing the off-gas flow to the atmosphere.","Preferred materials of construction for surfaces which contact the treatment liquid and\/or reaction product include, for example, type 304 stainless steel, type 316 stainless steel for all temperature ranges described herein, and polypropylene, Teflon, and\/or butyl rubber for applications below their respective specified maximum temperatures.","It is to be understood that the above-described arrangements, including but not limited to vessel configurations, pumps, valves, equipment and instrumentation, are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.","All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.","Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state \u201cmeans for\u201d performing a specified function, or \u201cstep for\u201d performing a specific function, is not to be interpreted as a \u201cmeans\u201d or \u201cstep\u201d clause as specified in 35 U.S.C.\u00a7112, \u00b66. In particular, the use of \u201cstep of\u201d in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C.\u00a7112, \u00b66."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 3B-3G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
