---
title: Integration of workflows from various systems
abstract: A particular system receives an order to be modeled as a workflow, and creates a particular system workflow based on the order. The particular system also provides the particular system workflow to application programming interfaces (APIs) associated with the particular system, and receives, via the APIs, a workflow associated with another system. The particular system further provides, via the APIs, the particular system workflow to the other system, and combines the particular system workflow with the other system workflow to create a combined workflow. The particular system enables a user device to access, via the particular system, one or more of the combined workflow, the particular system workflow, and the other system workflow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744820&OS=08744820&RS=08744820
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08744820
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110224
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Workflow is a depiction of a sequence of operations, such as work of a person, a group of persons, an organization of staff, or one or more simple or complex mechanisms. Workflow may be seen as any abstraction of real work. For control purposes, workflow may serve as a virtual representation of actual work. Workflow enables information technology (IT) applications to perform a complex activity that is divided into tasks, and to manage flows between the tasks based on various conditions (e.g., business conditions). Several business software solutions are integrating workflow into business logic that decides a route to be taken for a particular transaction in the software.","Various implementations of a workflow model are available for a variety of IT systems. For example, some IT systems implement workflow based on simple \u201cif-else\u201d loops. Other IT systems may utilize graph-based logic to implement workflow, or may utilize database status transition-based logic to implement workflow. Enterprise systems may include various IT systems, such ordering IT systems, provisioning IT systems, engineering IT systems, billing IT systems, security IT systems, etc. A transaction (e.g., an order) may enter the enterprise system and may travel through each of the various IT systems. Each of the various IT systems may include a different workflow implementation. However, in enterprise systems (or other systems implementing various IT systems with different workflow models), a user connected to a particular IT system (e.g., a provisioning IT system) can only view the workflow produced by the particular IT system, and cannot view the workflows produced by the other IT systems (e.g., an ordering IT system, an engineering IT system, etc.).","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.","Systems and\/or methods described herein may enable workflows from different systems (e.g., a provisioning system, a procurement system, etc.) to be integrated so that workflows spanning multiple systems may be viewed and\/or controlled by a user device (e.g., a computer) connected to any of the multiple systems. In one example implementation, a particular system may receive an order (or a transaction) to be modeled as a workflow, and may create, based on the order, a workflow associated with the particular system. The particular system may provide the particular system workflow to one or more application programming interfaces (APIs) associated with the particular system, and may receive, via the API(s), one or more workflows associated with one or more other systems. The particular system may provide, via the API(s), the particular system workflow to the other system(s), and may combine the particular system workflow with the other system(s) workflow(s) to create a combined workflow. The particular system may enable a user device to access, control, and\/or view the combined workflow, the particular system workflow, and\/or the other system(s) workflow(s). The user device may also access, control, and\/or view the combined workflow, the particular system workflow, and\/or the other system(s) workflow(s) via one or more of the other systems.","The term \u201ccomponent,\u201d as used herein, is intended to be broadly construed to include hardware (e.g., a device, a processor, a microprocessor, an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), a chip, a memory device (e.g., a read only memory (ROM), a random access memory (RAM), etc.), etc.) or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., a processor, microprocessor, ASIC, etc. executing software contained in a memory device).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","110","120","1","120","2","120","120","120","130","100","110","120","130","110","120","130","100","100"]},"User device  may include one or more devices capable of accessing systems , providing information to systems , and\/or receiving information from systems . User device  may include, for example, a workstation computer, a radiotelephone, a personal communications system (PCS) terminal (e.g., that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities), a personal digital assistant (PDA) (e.g., that can include a radiotelephone, a pager, Internet\/intranet access, etc.), a wireless device, a smart phone, a laptop computer, a personal computer, a tablet computer, etc.","System  may include one or more server devices, or other types of computation or communication devices, that gather, process, and\/or provide information in a manner described herein. In one example, system  may include one or more IT systems that generate one or more workflow models. The workflow models may enable the IT system(s) to perform a complex activity that is divided into tasks, and to manage flows between the tasks based on various conditions (e.g., business conditions).","In one example implementation, a workflow may span across multiple systems , and a particular system (e.g., system -) may receive an order (or a transaction) to be modeled as the workflow spanning across multiple systems . System - may create, based on the order, a particular workflow associated with system - (e.g., a portion of the workflow that is implemented by system -), and may provide the particular workflow to one or more APIs associated with system -. System - may receive, via the API(s), one or more other workflows associated with one or more other systems (e.g., systems - through -N), and may provide, via the API(s), the particular workflow to systems - through -N. System - may combine the particular workflow with the other workflows, associated with systems - through -N, to create a combined workflow, and may enable user device  to access and\/or view the combined workflow, the particular workflow, and\/or the other workflows. User device  may also access and\/or view the combined workflow, the particular workflow, and\/or the other workflows via one or more of systems - through -N.","Network  may include a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network, such as the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), an intranet, the Internet, an optical fiber (or fiber optic)-based network, or a combination of networks. In one example implementation, network  may enable user device  to communicate with one or more systems . In another example implementation, network  may be omitted and user device  may connect and communicate directly with one or more systems .","Although  shows example components of network , in other implementations, network  may contain fewer components, different components, differently arranged components, or additional components than depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","100","200","210","220","230","240","250","260","270","280","210","200"]},"Processing unit  may include one or more processors, microprocessors, or other types of processing units that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory  may include a RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processing unit . ROM  may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and\/or instructions for use by processing unit . Storage device  may include a magnetic and\/or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.","Input device  may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device , such as a keyboard, a mouse, a pen, a microphone, voice recognition and\/or biometric mechanisms, etc. Output device  may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator, including a display, a printer, a speaker, etc. Communication interface  may include any transceiver-like mechanism that enables device  to communicate with other devices and\/or systems. For example, communication interface  may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network.","As described herein, device  may perform certain operations in response to processing unit  executing software instructions contained in a computer-readable medium, such as main memory . A computer-readable medium may be defined as a non-transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory  may cause processing unit  to perform processes described herein. Alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","Although  shows example components of device , in other implementations, device  may include fewer components, different components, differently arranged components, or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more components of device  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","100","300","120","1","120","2","120","1","120","2","120","1","310","1","320","320","320","320","120","2","310","2","320","320"]},"Each of workflows - and - (collectively referred to herein as \u201cworkflows ,\u201d and, in some instances, singularly as \u201cworkflow \u201d) may include a depiction of a sequence of operations (e.g., tasks ), such as work of a person, a group of persons, an organization of staff, or one or more simple or complex mechanisms (e.g., devices). Workflow  may be an abstraction of real work, and may serve as a virtual representation of actual work. Workflow  may enable IT applications (e.g., provided in systems ) to perform a complex activity that is divided into tasks (e.g., tasks ), and to manage flows between tasks  based on various conditions (e.g., business conditions). A complete workflow (e.g., for a transaction or an order) may include workflows - and -, and may span multiple systems (e.g., systems - and -). In one example, workflows - and - may be associated with establishing connectivity between two locations that are owned and\/or operated by a telecommunications company.","Task  may include a virtual representation of an operation performed by a person, a group of persons, an organization, etc.; an operation performed by a device (e.g., a machine, a computing device, a network device, a network, etc.); an operation performed by a human and a device; etc. Task  may be defined by an input description, transformation information, and\/or an output description. The input description of task  may include information, material, energy, etc. needed to complete task . The transformation information of task  may include transformation rules, algorithms, etc. that may be performed by humans, devices, or a combination of humans and devices. The output description of task  may include information, material, energy, etc. produced by task  and provided as input to downstream tasks .","As further shown in the example workflow - of , there may three routes from task -A to task -E. For example, system - may decide an optimal route to reach task -E based on traffic provided between tasks -A and -B, traffic provided between tasks -A and -C, and traffic provided between tasks -A and -D (e.g., on a particular day). For some workflows (e.g., workflow -), time may be a critical resource, and for other workflows, energy may be a critical resource. Thus, a selected route from task -A to task -E (e.g., as selected by system -) may depend on various parameters, such as time, distance, energy, traffic, bandwidth, etc. Furthermore, in some workflows, a transaction may require various routes to be completely processed. After selection of the route from task -A to task -E and performance of operations by the selected tasks , task -E may perform an operation(s) defined by task -E (e.g., install cabling between two network devices) and the transaction may continue to workflow -.","In the example workflow -, task -F may receive the output from task -E, and there may two routes from task -F to task -I. For example, system - may decide an optimal route to reach task -I based on traffic provided between tasks -F and -G, and traffic provided between tasks -F and -H (e.g., on a particular day). A selected route from task -F to task -I (e.g., as selected by system -) may depend on various parameters, such as time, distance, energy, traffic, bandwidth, etc. Furthermore, in some workflows, a transaction may require various routes to be completely processed. After selection of the route from task -F to task -I and performance of operations by the selected tasks , task -I may perform an operation(s) defined by task -I (e.g., initializing network devices) and the transaction may cease.","In current systems (e.g., systems implementing various IT systems with different workflow models), if user device  (not shown in ) is connected to system -, user device  may only view workflow - produced by system -, and cannot view workflow - produced by system -. Similarly, in current systems, if user device  is connected to system -, user device  may only view workflow - produced by system -, and cannot view workflow - produced by system -. In contrast, implementations described herein may enable workflows (e.g., workflows - and -) from different systems (e.g., systems - and -) to be integrated so that workflows - and - spanning multiple systems (e.g., systems - and -) may be viewed by user device  when user device  connects to either one of systems - and -.","Although  shows example components of network portion , in other implementations, network portion  may include fewer components, different components, differently arranged components, or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more components of network portion  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["400","100","400","110","120","1","120","3","110","120","1","120","3","120","1","120","2","120","3","120","1","405","410","415","120","2","410","415","420","120","3","410","415","425"]},"System workflow  may include a workflow (e.g., workflow ) generated by ordering system - in response to an order  (e.g., to be modeled as a workflow) being received by ordering system -. In one example implementation, network portion  may be associated with a telecommunications company, and may be used by the telecommunications company to complete an order (e.g., order ) to establish connectivity between two locations (e.g., owned and\/or operated by the telecommunications company). System workflow  may include various tasks (e.g., tasks ) associated with functions performed by ordering system -, such as a task for receiving order , a task for validating order  (e.g., based on an address of person associated with order ), a task for validating order  (e.g., based on a credit worthiness of the person associated with order ), etc. Ordering system - may forward order  to system workflow  of provisioning system -, and may provide system workflow  to API(s)  of ordering system -.","API(s)  may include one or more rules and\/or specifications that a software program (e.g., provided in one system ) can follow to access and make use of services and\/or resources provided by another particular software program (e.g., provided in another system ) that implements API(s) . API(s)  may serve as an interface between different software programs (e.g., provided in different systems ), and may facilitate interaction of the different software programs. API(s)  may be created for applications, libraries, operating systems, etc., as a way to define \u201cvocabularies\u201d and resources\/or request conventions (e.g., function-calling conventions). API(s)  may include specifications for routines, data structures, object classes, and\/or protocols used to communicate between different systems .","In one example implementation, API(s)  may enable ordering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with provisioning system -, and may enable provisioning system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with ordering system -. API(s)  may enable provisioning system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with engineering system -, and may enable engineering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with provisioning system -. Furthermore, API(s)  may enable ordering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with engineering system -, and may enable engineering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with ordering system -.","In one example implementation, API(s)  may enable one system  to recognize and understand a workflow generated by another system . For example, API(s)  may enable ordering system - to recognize and understand system workflow  (e.g., received from provisioning system - via shared information ) and system workflow  (e.g., received from engineering system - via shared information ). API(s)  may enable provisioning system - to recognize and understand system workflow  (e.g., received from ordering system - via shared information ) and system workflow  (e.g., received from engineering system - via shared information ). Furthermore, API(s)  may enable engineering system - to recognize and understand system workflow  (e.g., received from ordering system - via shared information ) and system workflow  (e.g., received from provisioning system - via shared information ).","In another example implementation, API(s)  may permit workflows between systems - through - (e.g., system workflow , system workflow , and system workflow ) to be loosely coupled. For example, API(s)  may provide functionality so that system workflow  of engineering system - may not introduce any changes (e.g., impact) to system workflow  of provisioning system -. Without such an arrangement, every time system workflow  (e.g., of engineering system -) changes, the changes may impact system workflow  (e.g., of ordering system -) and system workflow  (e.g., of provisioning system -), which may increase the complexity of the transaction (e.g., order ). Further details of API(s)  are provided below in connection with .","Combined workflow  may include a combination of the workflows (e.g., workflows ) generated by ordering system - (e.g., system workflow ), provisioning system - (e.g., system workflow ), and engineering system - (e.g., system workflow ). For example, ordering system - may receive system workflow  from provisioning system - (e.g., via API(s) ), and may receive system workflow  from engineering system - (e.g., via API(s) ). Ordering system - may combine system workflow , system workflow , and system workflow  together to produce combined workflow . Provisioning system - may receive system workflow  from ordering system - (e.g., via API(s) ), and may receive system workflow  from engineering system - (e.g., via API(s) ). Provisioning system - may combine system workflow , system workflow , and system workflow  together to produce combined workflow . Engineering system - may receive system workflow  from ordering system - (e.g., via API(s) ), and may receive system workflow  from provisioning system - (e.g., via API(s) ). Engineering system - may combine system workflow , system workflow , and system workflow  together to produce combined workflow .","System workflow  may include a workflow (e.g., workflow ) generated by provisioning system - in response to order  being received from ordering system -. System workflow  may include various tasks (e.g., tasks ) associated with functions performed by provisioning system -, such as a task for checking if there is a physical connection between the two locations in the telecommunications network, a task for creating a necessary bandwidth via the physical connection (e.g., when the physical connection is present), a task for requesting from engineering system - that the physical connection be established (e.g., when the physical connection is not present), etc. Provisioning system - may forward order  to system workflow  of engineering system -, and may provide system workflow  to API(s)  of provisioning system -.","System workflow  may include a workflow (e.g., workflow ) generated by engineering system - in response to order  being received from provisioning system -. System workflow  may include various tasks (e.g., tasks ) associated with functions performed by engineering system -, such as a task for determining a shortest route between the two locations in the telecommunications network, a task for obtaining government approval to install the physical connection between the two locations, a task for procuring required materials (e.g., via a procurement system) to install the physical connection, a task for providing the determined shortest route and the procured materials to field engineers installing the physical connection, a task for installing the cables for the physical connection, etc. Engineering system - may provide system workflow  to API(s)  of engineering system -.","In one example implementation, ordering system -, provisioning system -, and engineering system - may each utilize a different methodology to generate system workflows , , and , respectively. For example, ordering system - may generate system workflow  using an information-intensive, document-driven workflow methodology; provisioning system - may generate system workflow  using a stochastic workflow methodology; and engineering system - may generate system workflow  using an \u201cif-else\u201d loops methodology.","As further shown in , user device  may access ordering system - (e.g., via a login  or other similar access method), and may retrieve workflows  from ordering system -. Workflows  may include one or more of system workflow , combined workflow , system workflow , and system workflow . User device  may also access provisioning system - (e.g., via a login  or other similar access method), and may retrieve workflows  from provisioning system -. Furthermore, user device  may access engineering system - (e.g., via a login  or other similar access method), and may retrieve workflows  from engineering system -. Thus, user device  may be able to view and\/or control any of workflows  (e.g., system workflow , combined workflow , system workflow , and\/or system workflow ) from any system (e.g., ordering system -, provisioning system -, and\/or engineering system -). In contrast, in current systems, if user device  is connected to ordering system -, user device  may only view system workflow  produced by ordering system -, and cannot view combined workflow , system workflow  (e.g., provided by provisioning system -), and system workflow  (e.g., provided by engineering system -).","Although  shows example components of network portion , in other implementations, network portion  may include fewer components, different components, differently arranged components, or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more components of network portion  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 2"],"b":["410","410","500","510","520","530","540","200"]},"List API  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive system workflow , system workflow , system workflow , and\/or shared information -, and may utilize work unit details parameters and work identifier parameters to generate combined workflow . The work unit details parameters may include all tasks (e.g., tasks ) which together may form a workflow, such as, for example, a task identifier, a task name, a task status, a list of predecessor tasks, a list of successor tasks, dependencies of a task on other tasks, etc. The work identifier parameters may include parameters that uniquely identify a transaction (e.g., order ) in a workflow.","Reflow task API  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive system workflow , system workflow , system workflow , and\/or shared information -, and may utilize a task identifier parameter and an audit details parameter to generate combined workflow . The task identifier parameter may include a parameter that uniquely identifies a task in a workflow. The audit details parameter may include a parameter that identifies a user who initiates a reflow request (e.g., a request to reorganize a workflow or tasks associated with a workflow), and provides remarks from the user as to why the reflow is performed.","Complete task API  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive system workflow , system workflow , system workflow , and\/or shared information -, and may utilize a task identifier parameter and an audit details parameter to generate combined workflow . The task identifier parameter may include a parameter that uniquely identifies a task in a workflow. The audit details parameter may include a parameter that identifies a user who initiates a task complete request (e.g., a request to complete one or more tasks associated with a workflow), and provides remarks from the user as to why the task complete is performed.","Hold work API  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive system workflow , system workflow , system workflow , and\/or shared information -, and may utilize a work identifier parameter and an audit details parameter to generate combined workflow . The work identifier parameter may include a parameter that uniquely identifies work in a workflow. The audit details parameter may include a parameter that identifies a user who initiates a hold work request (e.g., a request to place on hold work associated with a workflow), and provides remarks from the user as to why the hold work is performed.","Apply jeopardy API  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive system workflow , system workflow , system workflow , and\/or shared information -, and may utilize a work identifier parameter, a jeopardy code, and an audit details parameter to generate combined workflow . The work identifier parameter may include a parameter that uniquely identifies work in a workflow. The jeopardy code may include a code that uniquely identifies a jeopardy situation (e.g., a problem) in a workflow. For example, a jeopardy situation may occur (e.g., and a jeopardy code may be generated) when a task is identified that will not meet the task's expected completion date (e.g., if a cable is being provided between two locations, a delay in approval for installing the cable may impact the timeliness of an order being provisioned). The audit details parameter may include a parameter that identifies a user who initiates a jeopardy code, and provides remarks from the user as to why the jeopardy code is generated.","Although  shows example functional components of APIs , in other implementations, APIs  may include fewer functional components, different functional components, differently arranged functional components, or additional functional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more functional components of APIs  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of APIs .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7","b":["600","600","120","600","120"]},"As shown in , process  may include receiving, by a particular system, an order to be modeled as a workflow (block ), and creating a particular system workflow based on the order (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , system workflow  may include a workflow (e.g., workflow ) generated by ordering system - in response to order  (e.g., to be modeled as a workflow) being received by ordering system -. System workflow  may include various tasks (e.g., tasks ) associated with functions performed by ordering system -, such as a task for receiving order , a task for validating order  (e.g., based on an address of person associated with order ), a task for validating order  (e.g., based on a credit worthiness of the person associated with order ), etc.","As further shown in , process  may include providing the particular system workflow to one or more APIs associated with the particular system (block ), and receiving, via the API(s), one or more workflows associated with one or more other systems (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , ordering system - may provide system workflow  to API(s)  of ordering system -. API(s)  may enable ordering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with provisioning system -, and may enable ordering system - to share information  (e.g., information associated with system workflow ) with engineering system -.","Returning to , process  may include combining the particular system workflow with the other system(s) workflow(s) to create a combined workflow (block ), and enabling a user device to access, via the particular system, the combined workflow, the particular system workflow, and\/or the other system(s) workflow(s) (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , combined workflow  may include a combination of the workflows (e.g., workflows ) generated by ordering system - (e.g., system workflow ), provisioning system - (e.g., system workflow ), and engineering system - (e.g., system workflow ). In one example, ordering system - may receive system workflow  from provisioning system - (e.g., via API(s) ), and may receive system workflow  from engineering system - (e.g., via API(s) ). Ordering system - may combine system workflow , system workflow , and system workflow  together to produce combined workflow . User device  may access ordering system - (e.g., via login  or other similar access method), and may retrieve workflows  from ordering system -. Workflows  may include one or more of system workflow , combined workflow , system workflow , and system workflow .","Process block  may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in , process block  may include one or more of providing the particular system workflow to a list API (block ), providing the particular system workflow to a reflow task API (block ), providing the particular system workflow to a complete task API (block ), providing the particular system workflow to a hold work API (block ), and providing the particular system workflow to an apply jeopardy API (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , ordering system - may provide system workflow  to API(s)  of ordering system -. API(s)  may include one or more rules and\/or specifications that a software program (e.g., provided in one system ) can follow to access and make use of services and\/or resources provided by another particular software program (e.g., provided in another system ) that implements API(s) . API(s)  may serve as an interface between different software programs (e.g., provided in different systems ), and may facilitate interaction of the different software programs. In one example, API(s)  may include list API , reflow task API , complete task API , hold work API , and apply jeopardy API .","Systems and\/or methods described herein may enable workflows from different systems (e.g., a provisioning system, a procurement system, etc.) to be integrated so that workflows spanning multiple systems may be viewed and\/or controlled by a user device (e.g., a computer) connected to any of the multiple systems.","The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.","For example, while series of blocks have been described with regard to , the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further, non-dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.","It will be apparent that example aspects, as described above, may be implemented in many different forms of software, firmware, and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus, the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code\u2014it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.","Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and\/or disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the invention. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and\/or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim, the disclosure of the invention includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.","No element, act, or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the article \u201ca\u201d is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended, the term \u201cone\u201d or similar language is used. Further, the phrase \u201cbased on\u201d is intended to mean \u201cbased, at least in part, on\u201d unless explicitly stated otherwise."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
