---
title: Methods and systems for compressed sensing analog to digital conversion
abstract: Disclosed herein are example methods, systems, and devices for compressed sensing analog to digital conversion. In an example embodiment, a multiplication circuit is configured to multiply an input signal with a measurement signal to produce a multiplied signal, where the measurement signal includes data from a column of a measurement matrix. The measurement matrix may be generated by a linear feedback shift register (LFSR)-based measurement-matrix generator. An integration circuit may be coupled to the multiplication circuit and configured to integrate the multiplied signal for a predefined amount of time to produce an integrated signal. An analog to digital converter (ADC) circuit may be coupled to the integration circuit and configured to (i) sample the integrated signal and (ii) produce an output signal comprising at least one sample of the integrated signal. A column-wise multiplication of the input signal with the measurement signal enables an efficient compressed-sensing analog-to-digital conversion architecture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08872688&OS=08872688&RS=08872688
owner: University of Washington through its Center for Commercialization
number: 08872688
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","I. EXAMPLE ARCHITECTURE","a. Signal-Transmission Systems Generally","b. Compressed-Sensing Analog-to-Digital Conversion","II. EXAMPLE METHOD","II. CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a U.S. National Phase of International Application No. PCT\/US11\/43817 filed on Jul. 13, 2011, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/363,944 filed Jul. 13, 2010, entitled Compressed Sensing Analog-to-Digital Converters for Biomedical Applications, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.","This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number ECCS-0951368 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.","Common approaches to data compression involve sampling, digitizing, and then compressing a data signal. Such approaches often include Nyquist sampling of the data signal, whereby the data signal is sampled at least twice as fast as the data signal's maximum rate of change. However, for data signals that are characterized by a high degree of data redundancy (i.e., signals exhibiting a significant degree of difference between the rate of change of a relatively sparse signal and the rate of information in it), such common approaches to data compression may be inefficient or otherwise undesirable. Examples of data signals that may exhibit high degrees of data redundancy include, but are not limited to, bio-signals, industrial signals, computer-processing signals, audio-recording signals, and video-recording signals, among others.","Compressed sensing involves an approach to sampling of a data signal that does not necessarily require sampling of the data signal at the Nyquist rate. Compressed-sensing techniques utilize the insight that a sparse signal may be sampled at a much lower rate than the Nyquist rate, and may still be accurately recovered using post-processing in hardware or software. As such, the power consumption and complexity of a signal-acquisition system may be reduced using compressed sensing.","The theoretical framework of compressed sensing is based on the matrix equation [Y]=[\u03a6][X]; i.e., an uncompressed input signal (vector [X]) of size N, is multiplied by a measurement matrix [\u03a6] of size M\u00d7N to obtain a compressed output signal (vector [Y]) of size M<N. Because [\u03a6] is non-invertible (i.e., not a square matrix), various algorithms may then be applied to [Y] in an attempt to search for the right [X] from several possible solutions. Such algorithms may exploit the sparsity of the data signal for high accuracy of recovery.","One possible implementation of such compressed-sensing techniques involves the multiplication of each row of [\u03a6] by the input signal (vector [X]). For various reasons, there are a number of limitations to this approach. Such limitations include, for example, potential inaccuracy and imprecision, power inefficiency, long delays, and large circuit areas.","An improvement is therefore desired.","Disclosed herein are methods, systems, and devices that allow for efficient compressed sensing analog-to-digital (A\/D) conversion. One source of such efficient compressed sensing in the present disclosure is a column-by-column multiplication of the measurement matrix [\u03a6] by the input signal (vector [X]).","The methods, systems, and devices described herein may be applicable to a wide-variety of signal-acquisition applications. Such applications include, but are not limited to, the acquisition of signals characterized by data redundancy arising from a significant degree of difference between the rate of change of a relatively sparse signal and the rate of information in it.","In one aspect, an example circuit may include a multiplication circuit configured to multiply an input signal with a measurement signal to produce a multiplied signal, where the measurement signal includes data from a column of a measurement matrix; an integration circuit coupled to the multiplication circuit configured to integrate the multiplied signal for a predefined amount of time to produce an integrated signal; and an analog to digital converter (ADC) circuit coupled to the integration circuit and configured to (i) sample the integrated signal and (ii) produce an output signal comprising at least one sample of the integrated signal.","The input signal may include a differential-input signal having a positive-input signal and a negative-input signal. Accordingly, the multiplication circuit may include a differential-signal selection circuit having a switch configured to select one of the positive-input signal and the negative-input signal based at least in part on the measurement signal. The multiplication circuit may further include an analysis circuit including a plurality of stages, each stage including: a selection circuit configured to select, based at least in part on the measurement signal, one of (a) the selected one of the positive-input signal and the negative-input signal and (b) a virtual-ground signal; and a storage element having (a) a first terminal configured to receive the signal selected by the selection circuit and (b) a second terminal configured to output a selected-output signal; and a combination circuit configured to combine the selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate the multiplied signal.","The integration circuit may include an operational-amplifier circuit including: a first input configured to receive the multiplied signal; a second input configured to receive the virtual-ground signal; and an output coupled to a first feedback path connected to the first input and a second feedback path connected to the first input, where the first feedback path includes a first-feedback switch, and where the second feedback path includes a second-feedback switch, a feedback capacitor, and a reset switch.","The ADC circuit may include: a successive approximation register (SAR)-logic circuit configured to output a selection signal; a sampling circuit including a plurality of stages, each stage including: a selection circuit configured to select, based at least in part on the selection signal, one of (a) the integrated signal, (b) a direct-current signal, and (c) a ground signal; and a storage element having (a) a first terminal configured to receive the signal selected by the selection circuit and (b) a second terminal configured to output a selected-output signal; and a combination circuit configured to combine the selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a combined-output signal.","In another aspect, an example circuit may include: a set of analog to digital converter (ADC) circuits, where each ADC circuit is coupled to a respective integration circuit, and where each integration circuit is coupled to a respective multiplication circuit; a sampling buffer configured to receive, from each ADC circuit in a sequential manner, a respective output signal; a successive approximation register (SAR)-logic circuit configured to output a selection signal; a sampling circuit including a plurality of stages, each stage including: a selection circuit configured to select, based at least in part on the selection signal, one of (a) the integrated signal, (b) a direct-current signal, and (c) a ground signal; and a storage element having (a) a first terminal configured to receive the signal selected by the selection circuit and (b) a second terminal configured to output a selected-output signal; and a combination circuit configured to combine the selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a combined-output signal.","In another aspect, an example circuit may include: a first input configured to receive an input signal; a second input configured to receive a virtual-ground signal; a successive approximation register (SAR)-logic circuit; and an output coupled to a first feedback path connected to the first input, where the first feedback path includes: a first sub-integration circuit including a plurality of stages, each stage configured to provide a first-sub-integration selected-output signal; and a first combination circuit configured to combine the first-sub-integration selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a first combined-output signal; and an output coupled to a second feedback path connected to the first input, where the second feedback path includes: a second sub-integration circuit comprising a plurality of stages, each stage configured to provide a second-sub-integration selected-output signal; and a second combination circuit configured to combine the second-sub-integration selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a second combined-output signal.","In another aspect, an example method may include: multiplying an input signal with a measurement signal to produce a multiplied signal, where the measurement signal includes data from a column of a measurement matrix; integrating the multiplied signal for a predefined amount of time to produce an integrated signal; sampling the integrated signal; and producing an output signal comprising at least one sample of the integrated signal.","These as well as other aspects and advantages will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description, with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying figures, which form a part thereof. In the figures, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, figures, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein, and illustrated in the figures, can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","100","100","102","102","104","106","108","110","108"]},"Wireless signal  may then be received at block . Block  may be, for example, a wireless receiver. At block , the compressed signal is decompressed from data rate K to the original sample rate (or Nyquist rate N). As such, block  may output analog signal x\u2032 , which is an approximation of analog signal x .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["150","150","150","152","152","154","152","156","158","156"]},"Wireless signal  may then be received at block . Block  may be, for example, a wireless receiver. At block , the compressed signal is reconstructed from vector form to a signal having a rate that is equal to Nyquist rate N. As such, block  may output analog signal x\u2032 , which is an approximation of analog signal x .","i. Compressed-Sensing Overview","Compressed sensing in signal acquisition and recovery exploits data redundancy arising from the significant difference between the rate of change of a sparse signal and the rate of information in it. As one example, many bio-signals exhibit such data redundancy characteristics. Compressed sensing is theoretically based on the matrix equation [Y]=[\u03a6][X]; i.e., an uncompressed input data vector of size N, [X], is multiplied by a measurement matrix [\u03a6] of size M\u00d7N to obtain the compressed output vector [Y] of size M<N. A depiction of such a compressed sensing scheme is shown below as Equation 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"1"}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u22ee"}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["y","M"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"11"}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"N"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u22ee"},{"mi":"\u22f1"},{"mi":"\u22ee"}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","MN"]}}]}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u22ee"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u22ee"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u22ee"}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["x","M"]}}}]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"Those of skill in the art will appreciate that recovery of [X] is possible with high probability, given that M>K log(N\/K), where K is the number of non-zero entries in [X]. It should be noted that it may be desirable for the measurement matrix to possess Resctricted Isometry Property (RIP). Those of skill in the art will appreciate that RIP is a mathematical property that, if possessed by the measurement matrix, may help enable accurate reconstruction of [X].","Once transmitted, [Y] needs to be reconstructed to [X] at the receiver. The reconstruction of [X] lies in the solution of an under-defined (i.e., having many solutions) equation defined by [Y]=[\u03a6][X]. Since [\u03a6] is not a square matrix, various algorithms may be applied to search for the right [X] from several possible solutions. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, examples of such algorithms include: L-norm minimizations; matching pursuits; iterative thresholding; and total variation (TV) minimization.","ii. Compressed-Sensing Analog-to-Digital Conversion Architecture","One common approach to implementing Equation 1 is to use an analog delay line which effectively multiplies each row of [\u03a6] by [X]. However, there are many recognized limitations to this approach including, for example, potential inaccuracy and imprecision, power inefficiency, long delays, and large circuit areas. In at least these respects, row-wise multiplication of [\u03a6] by [X] is undesirable.","Accordingly, the disclosure herein involves, inter alia, an improved column-by-column wise multiplication approach to. Advantages to such an approach include, for example, low-frequency operation, decreased power consumption, small circuit areas, and accuracy. Other advantages may exist as well. Such a column-wise multiplication enables an efficient compressed-sensing analog-to-digital conversion architecture.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","200","202","208","208"]},"MDAC  includes multiplication circuit  and integrator . Multiplication circuit  may be configured to multiply an input signal (such as amplified x(t)) with a measurement signal (such as [\u03a6]) to produce a multiplied signal. As such, the measurement signal may include data from a column of a measurement matrix. Such a measurement matrix may include a number of entries, such as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"11"}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u22ee"}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}}]}},"mo":"."}}},"br":{},"b":["204","204"],"sub":"C "},"Integration circuit  may be coupled to multiplication circuit  and may be configured to integrate the multiplied signal for a predefined amount of time to produce an integrated signal. In turn, compressed-sensing analog-to-digital conversion architecture  may also include analog-to-digital converter (ADC)  coupled to integration circuit . ADC  may be configured to sample the integrated signal and produce an output signal comprising at least one sample of the integrated signal. It should be noted that although ADC  is shown as a 10 bit C-2C successive approximation register (SAR) ADC, this is not necessary. Other examples of suitable ADCs may exist as well.","Compressed-sensing analog-to-digital conversion architecture  may include a number, M, of such combinations of multiplication circuit , integration circuit , and ADC . Each such combination may correspond to a column in the measurements matrix [\u03a6], having size M\u00d7N. As such, the output of each combination may correspond to an entry in the output vector [Y].",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["250","250","252","258","254","254","256","202","208","204","204","206","200","250","262","256","256","260"]},"iii. Multiplication and Integration Circuits","As noted, multiplication circuit  may be coupled to measurement-matrix generator A. Some compressed-sensing analog-to-digital conversion architectures may implement a measurement-matrix generator using static random-access memory (SRAM) containing a high number of storage elements. Use of such SRAM comes at the cost of large area and power inefficiencies. To avoid such shortcomings, measurement-matrix generator A may include one or more linear feedback shift register(s) (LFSR) configured to generate the random coefficient [\u03a6]for each entry in the measurement matrix. Each random coefficient [\u03a6]generated by measurement-matrix generator A may be any suitable number of bits. As one example, a particular random coefficient [\u03a6]may be five bits, however, this is not necessary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"A Fibonacci-type LFSR is characterized by one or more XOR-logic circuits having inputs that are coupled to one of at least one intermediate stage of the LFSR and the last, or output, stage of the LFSR. The result of the XOR function is then fed back into the input stage of the LFSR. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the particular arrangement of XOR gates in a Fibonacci-type LFSR may be implemented such that the Fibonacci-type LFSR generates a maximum-length sequence. Such a maximum-length sequence is a type of pseudorandom binary sequence that is \u201cmaximum\u201d in the sense that the state of the LFSR reproduces as infrequently as possible (i.e., they reproduce every binary sequence that can be reproduced by the shift register\u2014for length-m registers they produce a sequence of length \u22121 shifts in the register).","Returning now to , Fibonacci-type LFSR  is shown as a five-bit (or five-stage) LFSR that is realized by a set of five stages - connected in series. Each of stages - may be implemented as a d-type flip-flop, however other possibilities exist as well. Further, Fibonacci-type LFSR  includes a feedback path  from the output of XOR-logic circuit  to the input of stage . Feedback path  includes an XOR-logic circuit  having a first input that is coupled to an output of stage  and a second input that is coupled to an output of stage . Thus, as shown in , a five-bit LFSR may be realized by a set of five d-type flip-flops connected in series. It should be understood, however, that Fibonacci-type LFSR  is shown for purposes of example and explanation only, and should not be taken to be limiting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","402","402","402","402","400","404","404"]},"LFSRs A-E may be combined such that a respective output of each LFSR is coupled to a respective input of another LFSR. Further, a respective output of each LFSR may be coupled to an input of a respective XOR-logic circuit, and a respective input of another LFSR may be coupled to the output of the respective XOR-logic circuit. As but one example, the output of LFSR B is coupled to an input of XOR-logic circuit F, and an input of LFSR C is coupled to the output of XOR-logic circuit F. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that such an arrangement of the forward path of hybrid-LSFR is commonly referred to as a Galois-type arrangement.","Similar to Fibonacci-type LFSR , hybrid-LFSR  includes one or more XOR-logic circuits having inputs that are coupled to each of at least one intermediate LFSR from set of LFSRs A-E and the last, or output, LFSR from set of LFSRs A-B. For example, XOR-logic circuits A-D are implemented in the feedback path of hybrid-LFSR . Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the particular arrangement of XOR-logic circuits A-D may be implemented such that hybrid-LFSR  generates a maximum-length sequence. That is, each of LFSRs A-B may be understood to operate as a stage in hybrid-LFSR . Thus, in the case that hybrid-LFSR  includes eight LFSRs, and each such LFSR is five bits in length, hybrid-LFSR  may be understood to operate as a forty-bit LFSR.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","504","504","504","504","400","500","504","504"],"sub":"C "},"Measurement-matrix generator  also includes multiple shift registers A-E. As a general matter, shift registers A-E may be of the same length as each of hybrid-LFSRs A-E (which may be forty bits in accordance with forty-bit hybrid-LFSRs A-E, although this is not necessary). In this way, each of shift registers A-E may be used to load a respective one of hybrid-LFSRs A-E. In an embodiment, eight shift registers, such as shift registers A-E, and eight hybrid-LFSRs, such as hybrid-LFSRs A-E, may be implemented, although this is not necessary.","The particular embodiment of a measurement-matrix generator depicted in , therefore, may provide 64 rows of five-bit measurement matrix coefficients. In doing so, the measurement-matrix generator makes use of both Fibonacci and Galois topologies to achieve a uniform random measurement matrix. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that using one bit out of every five bit LFSR can result in a Bernoulli random measurement matrix. Those of skill in the art will also appreciate that although  depict particular examples of certain circuits and\/or other components, such examples should not be taken to be limiting. Other examples and embodiments of a measurement-matrix generator implemented in accordance with the principles disclosed herein may be possible as well.","Returning now to , multiplication circuit  may take many forms. One example of multiplication circuit  is shown in .  depicts an example C-2C switched capacitor multiplying digital-to-analog converter (MDAC) circuit (multiplication circuit ), in accordance with an embodiment. While  provides a particular example of a multiplication circuit, it should be understood that other examples may be possible as well.","Multiplication circuit  includes differential-signal selection circuit , analysis circuit  including multiple stages that each include circuit elements such as selection circuit A and storage element B, as well as combination circuit . Multiplication circuit  may operate, at least in part, according to non-overlapping clock signals phi and phi, as will be discussed further below.","Multiplication circuit  may be configured to receive an input signal, such as input signal x(t) described above with respect to . In an embodiment, the input signal may include a differential-input signal having a positive-input signal (VP) and a negative-input signal (VN). That is, the positive-input signal may be an inverse of the negative-input signal.","Differential-signal selection circuit  may include a switch configured to select one of the positive-input signal and the negative-input signal based at least in part on the measurement signal, or measurement matrix [\u03a6]. For example, first switch A may be configured to receive VP and may operate according to switch-signal b, where b may be equal to the inverse of c (the first coefficient of coefficients c-c of a five-bit measurement matrix [\u03a6]). On the other hand, second switch B may be configured to receive VN and may operate according to switch-signal g, where g may be equal to c. In this way, first switch A and second switch B may never be closed (or open) at the same time, and accordingly, multiplication circuit  may receive only one of the positive-input signal and the negative-input signal at a given time.","Analysis circuit  may be coupled to differential-signal selection circuit , and as noted, may include a plurality of stages, each stage including circuit elements such as selection circuit A and storage element B. Selection circuit A may be configured to select, based at least in part on the measurement signal, or measurement matrix [\u03a6], one of (a) the positive-input signal or the negative-input signal selected by differential-signal selection circuit  and (b) a virtual-ground signal. For example, first switch C may be configured to receive the selected one of the positive-input signal and the negative-input signal from differential-signal selection circuit , and may operate according to switch signal b, where, for b-b, b=cAND phi. On the other hand, second switch D may be configured to receive the virtual-ground signal, and may operate according to switch signal g, where, for g-g, g=  AND phi OR phi. In this way, first switch C and second switch D may never be closed (or open) at the same time, and accordingly, selection circuit A may only select one of (a) the positive-input signal or the negative-input signal selected by differential-signal selection circuit  and (b) a virtual-ground signal, at a time.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that to implement a Bernoulli random measurement matrix, entries c-cwill maintain a value of 1, and entry cwill vary between the values of 0 and 1. Note that in the case of implementation of a Bernoulli random measurement matrix, the architecture of the analysis circuit simplifies to a stage that contains a single capacitor.","Storage element B may have (a) a first terminal configured to receive the signal selected by selection circuit A and (b) a second terminal configured to output a selected-output signal. In some embodiments, storage element B may be a capacitor, however this is not necessary. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that storage element B may be configured to charge according to the voltage of the signal selected by selection circuit A.","Combination circuit  may be configured to combine the selected-output signals of plurality of stages  and thereby generate the multiplied signal. Combination circuit  may include a set of capacitors. For purposes of explanation, the capacitors present in analysis circuit  may be referred to as first capacitors, and the capacitors present in combination circuit  may be referred to as second capacitors. In some embodiments, the first capacitors may each have a first capacitance. Further, each second capacitor may have a capacitance that is approximately twice the first capacitance. Further still, a first terminal of each second capacitor may coupled to a first stage and a second terminal of each second capacitor is coupled to a second stage. The coupling of each second capacitor to each of the first stage and the second stage may be implemented by coupling the second capacitor to the respective first capacitor of each stage.","Returning now to , integration circuit  may take many forms, including that depicted with respect to integration circuit  in . In an embodiment, combination circuit  may be coupled to integration circuit . More specifically, integration circuit  may include operational-amplifier circuit A. Operational-amplifier circuit A may include a first input configured to receive the multiplied signal generated by combination circuit  and may include a second input configured to receive a virtual-ground signal. Operational-amplifier circuit A may also include an output coupled to a first feedback path connected to the first input and a second feedback path connected to the first input. The first feedback path may include a first-feedback switch B configured to operate according to non-overlapping clock signal phi. The second feedback path may include a second-feedback switch C configured to operate according to non-overlapping clock signal phi, a feedback capacitor D, and a reset switch E.","In this way, during phi, the voltage of the multiplied signal generated by combination circuit  is fed back to the first input of operational-amplifier circuit A. Then, during phi, the voltage at the first input, including the feedback, will be applied to capacitor D. In other words, the multiplied signal is integrated for a predefined amount of time (reflected by phi), and an integrated signal is produced at capacitor D by charging capacitor D in accordance with phi.","iv. Successive Approximation Register Analog-to-Digital Converter Circuit","Returning now to , integration circuit  may be coupled to analog-to-digital converter (ADC) circuit . One example of ADC circuit  is depicted in , which depicts an example successive approximation (SAR) ADC circuit , in accordance with an embodiment. While  provides a particular example of an SAR ADC circuit, it should be understood that other examples may be possible as well.","SAR ADC circuit  may include a SAR-logic circuit , sampling circuit  including multiple stages that each include circuit elements such as selection circuit  and storage element , combination circuit , as well as comparator circuit .","SAR ADC circuit  may be configured to receive signals, such as the integrated signal (V) produced by integration circuit . SAR ADC circuit  may also be configured to receive a non-zero direct-current signal (V), and a ground signal (gnd).","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that SAR-logic circuit  may be used to control switching by sampling circuit  between signals such as V, V, and gnd by way of a selection signal. As noted, sampling circuit  may include a plurality of stages, each stage including circuit elements such as selection circuit  and storage element . Selection circuit  may be configured to select, based at least in part on the selection signal provided by SAR-logic circuit , one of (a) the integrated signal (V), (b) a direct-current signal (V), and (c) a ground signal (gnd). For example, first switch A may be configured to receive V. Alternatively, second switch B may be configured to receive V. And third switch C may be configured to receive gnd. SAR-logic circuit  may be configured such that none of first switch A, second switch B, and third switch C are closed at the same time. Accordingly, sampling circuit  may only select one of (a) the integrated signal (V), (b) a direct-current signal (V), and (c) a ground signal (gnd), at a time.","Storage element  may have (a) a first terminal configured to receive the signal selected by selection circuit  and (b) a second terminal configured to output a selected-output signal. In some embodiments, storage element  may be a capacitor, however this is not necessary. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that storage element  may be configured to charge according to the voltage of the signal selected by selection circuit .","Combination circuit  may be configured to combine the selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a combined-output signal. Combination circuit  may include a set of capacitors. For purposes of explanation, the capacitors present in sampling circuit  may be referred to as first capacitors, and the capacitors present in combination circuit  may be referred to as second capacitors. In some embodiments, the first capacitors may each have a first capacitance. Further, each second capacitor may have a capacitance that is approximately twice the first capacitance. Further still, a first terminal of each second capacitor may be coupled to a first stage and a second terminal of each second capacitor is coupled to a second stage. The coupling of each second capacitor to each of the first stage and the second stage may be implemented by coupling the second capacitor to the respective first capacitor of each stage.","Comparator circuit  may be configured to receive the combined-output signal and drive SAR-logic circuit  using its output. Accordingly, SAR ADC circuit  may achieve an efficient and accurate quantization of the integrated signal produced by integration circuit . Comparator circuit  may include a first input configured to receive the combined-output signal, a second input configured to receive a virtual-ground signal, and an output configured to output the output signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["800","700","610"]},"In an embodiment, combination circuit  may be coupled to integration circuit . More specifically, integration circuit  may include operational-amplifier circuit . Operational-amplifier circuit  may include a first input configured to receive the multiplied signal generated by combination circuit  and may include a second input configured to receive a virtual-ground signal.","Integration circuit  may also include SAR-logic circuit , which may be used to control sub-integration circuits  and  via selection signal A. Operational-amplifier circuit  may include an output coupled to a first feedback path connected to the first input and a second feedback path connected to the first input. The first feedback path may include a first-feedback switch A configured to operate according to non-overlapping clock signal phi and second-feedback switch B configured to operate according to SAR-logic clock signal phi. The first feedback patch may also include first sub-integration circuit , which may have an arrangement that is generally similar to SAR ADC circuit  described above with respect to . More particularly, sub-integration circuit  may include a plurality of stages, where each stage is configured to provide a first-sub-integration selected-output signal. Sub-integration circuit  may also include a first combination circuit configured to combine the first-sub-integration selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a first combined-output signal. The first feedback path may also include a reset switch that operates according to phi.","The second feedback path may include a first-feedback switch A configured to operate according to non-overlapping clock signal phi and second-feedback switch B configured to operate according to integration clock signal phi. The second feedback patch may also include second sub-integration circuit , which may have an arrangement that is generally similar to SAR ADC circuit  described above with respect to . More particularly, second sub-integration circuit  may include a plurality of stages, where each stage is configured to provide a second-sub-integration selected-output signal. Sub-integration circuit  may also include a second combination circuit configured to combine the second-sub-integration selected-output signals of the plurality of stages and thereby generate a second combined-output signal. The second feedback path may also include a reset switch that operates according to phi.","Note that using two feedback paths provides for direct sampling of the multiplied signal onto a SAR ADC, thus eliminating the need for a sampling buffer. Further note that while one feedback path is used for integration, the other feedback path is used for digitization, in a time-interleaved manner.","Integration circuit  may also include a combined-output-signal selection switch  configured to select one of the first combined-output signal generated by first sub-integration circuit  and the second combined-output signal generated by second sub-integration circuit . Integration circuit  may also include comparator circuit  configured to receive the selected one of the first combined-output signal and the second combined-output signal.","For example, first switch A may be configured to receive the second combined-output signal and may operate according to time-interleaved clock signal phiAND phi. On the other hand, second switch B may be configured to receive first combined-output signal and may operate according to phiAND phi. In this way, first switch A and second switch B may never be closed (or open) at the same time, and accordingly, comparator circuit  may receive only one of the first combined-output signal and the second combined-output signal at a given time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","900","900","902"]},"At step , the compressed-sensing circuitry integrates the multiplied signal for a predefined amount of time to produce an integrated signal. Such integration may be performed in accordance with the description of the integration circuitry depicted in at least  and\/or  above. Other examples may exist as well.","At step , the compressed-sensing circuitry samples the integrated signal. And at step , the compressed-sensing circuitry produces an output signal that includes at least one sample of the integrated signal. The sampling and production of the output signal may be performed in accordance with the description of the successive approximation logic analog-to-digital converter circuitry depicted in at least  and\/or  above. Other examples may exist as well.","It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore, all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
