---
title: Interface between restful web services and packet-switched networks for text messaging
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for interfacing RESTful web applications with packet-switched networks for text messaging. One embodiment comprises a system that handles a Mobile Terminated (MT) text message from a web application to a packet-switched network. The system receives a RESTful send operation for sending the MT text message from the web application. The system converts the RESTful send operation for the MT text message to a send request that is based on a signaling protocol used by the packet switched network, such as SIP, SMPP, or MAP. The system then transmits the send request for the MT text message to the packet-switched network for delivery of the MT text message to a recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08923899&OS=08923899&RS=08923899
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08923899
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20110615
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS","EXAMPLES"],"p":["The invention is related to the field of communications and, in particular, to interfacing RESTful web services with packet-switched networks for text messaging.","Text messaging has become a popular mode of communication in many mobile (or wireless) networks. One example of text messaging is Short Message Service (SMS), which is a set of communication protocols allowing the exchange of short text messages (i.e., 160 characters or less) between devices. While the term \u201ctext message\u201d traditionally referred to text-only messages sent using SMS, it has been extended to include multimedia messages, such as images, video, sound content, etc. The multimedia messages may be sent using Multimedia Message Service (MMS) protocol. Often times, mobile users more frequently use text messaging for communication than voice calls.","Although text messaging is traditionally thought of as two mobile devices exchanging text messages, there may be web-based applications that allow an end user to send or receive text messages. For example, an end user may access a 3party web site for sending\/receiving text messages. Through the 3party web site, the end user may enter a message intended for a recipient and a telephone number for the recipient. The web-based application then generates a send request for the text message using an Application Programming Interface (API) defined for web-based services. In another example, some social networking services (e.g., Facebook) may provide text messaging capabilities through a web site. When a user logs into his\/her social network account, one option available to the end user may be to send\/receive text messages.","Organizations have defined standard APIs for web-based applications to use when sending\/receiving text messages. One API that is used for web applications is a RESTful API, also referred to as a RESTful web API. The RESTful web API is a set of operations that use HTTP methods, such as POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE, while conforming to Representational State Transfer (REST) constraints.","Unfortunately, the RESTful APIs presently used for web services do not provide enough flexibility for today's evolving networks.","Embodiments described herein provide a system, such as an API, that interfaces RESTful web services with packet-switched networks. The system is able to translate RESTful operations from a web application to messages in the signaling protocol of the packet-switched network for SMS\/MMS messaging. Also, the system is able to translate signaling messages from the packet-switched network to RESTful operations. By converting between RESTful and the signaling protocol of the packet-switched network, text messages may be exchanged directly between the web application and the packet-switched network. This advantageously improves how web-based text messaging may be implemented in evolving networks, such as IMS networks or LTE networks.","One embodiment comprises a system that handles a Mobile Terminated (MT) text message from a web application to a packet-switched network. The system includes an interface operable to receive a RESTful send operation from the web application that is used for sending the MT text message from the web application. The system further includes a controller operable to convert the RESTful send operation for the MT text message to a send request in a signaling protocol used in the packet-switched network. The signaling protocol used in the packet-switched network may be Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), Short Message Peer-to-Peer (SMPP) protocol, Mobile Application Part (MAP) protocol, etc. The interface is further operable to transmit the send request for the MT text message to the packet-switched network for delivery of the MT text message to a recipient.","In another embodiment, the system is able to handle a Mobile Originated (MO) text message from the packet-switched network to the web application. The interface is operable to receive a send request for the MO text message from the packet-switched network. As above, the send request is in the signaling protocol used in the packet-switched network. The controller is further operable to convert the send request for the MO text message to a RESTful receive operation that is used for receiving the MO text message into the web application. The interface is further operable to transmit the RESTful receive operation for the MO text message to the web application for delivery of the MO text message to a user of the web application.","Other exemplary embodiments may be described below.","The figures and the following description illustrate specific exemplary embodiments of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that, although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the invention and are included within the scope of the invention. Furthermore, any examples described herein are intended to aid in understanding the principles of the invention, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. As a result, the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments or examples described below, but by the claims and their equivalents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","130","120","110","110","130","130","130","140","130","140"]},"Web application  is able to exchange text messages with UE  with the assistance of conversion system . Conversion system  acts to translate RESTful operations to a signaling protocol used in packet-switched network , and vice-versa. Conversion system  may be thought of as an Application Programming Interface (API), as it converts standardized operations from web application  to the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network . In this embodiment, the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network  may be Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), Short Message Peer-to-Peer (SMPP) protocol, Mobile Application Part (MAP) protocol, or another protocol.","Conversion system  includes an interface  and a controller . Interface  comprises any device or component that communicates with web application  and\/or other web applications not shown using RESTful. Interface  is also able to communicate with packet-switched network  through a signaling protocol used within packet-switched network . Controller  comprises any device or component that translates messages between RESTful and the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network .","Assume that a user of web application  creates a text message intended for UE . This is referred to as a Mobile Terminated (MT) or Application Originated (AO) text message. When this occurs, web application  generates a RESTful operation or command for sending the MT text message. For example, a RESTful operation for sending the MT text message may comprise a POST operation with a \u201cSendSms\u201d command inserted for the MT text message. The operation for sending the MT text message is referred to herein generally as a RESTful send operation. Web application  then transmits the RESTful send operation to conversion system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","110","140","200","120"]},"In step , interface  receives the RESTful send operation for the MT text message from web application . In step , controller  converts the RESTful send operation to a send request in the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network . For example, if the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network  comprises SIP, then controller  may convert the RESTful send operation to a SIP MESSAGE that encapsulates the MT text message. In order to perform the conversion, controller  may store a table that maps the RESTful operations to methods of the signaling protocol used in packet-switched network . The table may also map fields from the RESTful operations (e.g., source address, terminating address, message type, etc) to fields in the signaling protocol. Controller  may use this table to convert the RESTful send operation from web application  to the send request.","In step , interface  transmits the send request to packet-switched network  so that the MT text message may be delivered to its intended recipient, which is UE . The appropriate node in packet-switched network  may attempt delivery of the MT text message to UE  without conversion to another protocol.","A similar process as described above is used for delivering a text message from UE  to web application . Assume that an end user of UE  creates a text message intended for web application . This is referred to as a Mobile Originated (MO) or Application Terminated (AT) text message. When this occurs, a text message application in UE  generates a send request in the signaling protocol for packet-switched network  that is used for sending the MO text message, such as a SIP MESSAGE. UE  then transmits the send request to conversion system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","140","110","302","122","140","304","124","110","124","110","306","122","110","110","110"]},"When MT and MO text messages are sent as described in the above embodiments (see step  of ), there may be additional messages exchanged to indicate whether the text messages are successfully delivered. These messages may be referred to as notifications, acknowledgements, status messages, etc. Conversion system  is able to translate these additional messages in a similar manner as described above.  illustrate conversion of messages that carry status information for text message delivery. There may be additional messages sent to exchange the status information between web application  and packet-switched network  than those described in . More detailed message diagrams are provided in .","When packet-switched network  receives a send request for a MT text message, packet-switched network  attempts to deliver the MT text message to UE . If delivery of the MT text message is successful or fails, packet-switched network  generates a status message that includes status information for the delivery of the MT text message. The status message is in the signaling protocol used by packet-switched network . For example, if SIP is used in packet-switched network , then the status message may comprise a SIP MESSAGE, a SIP NOTIFY, or a SIP response such as a SIP 7xx message. Packet-switched network  then transmits the status message to conversion system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","130","110","402","122","130","404","124","406","122","110","110"]},"For a MO text message, web application  is able to generate status information for delivery of the MO text message. If delivery of the MO text message is successful or fails, web application  generates a RESTful status operation that includes the status information for the MO text message. The RESTful status operation may comprise a POST operation with a \u201cNotifySmsDeliveryReceipt\u201d command inserted that encapsulates the status information. Web application  then transmits the RESTful status operation to conversion system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","110","130","502","122","110","504","124","130","130","506","122","130","130"]},"Conversion system  as described above allows for web-based text messaging to be implemented in evolving packet-switched networks. For example, conversion system  may be used to implement web-based text messaging in IMS networks and LTE networks. This can advantageously increase revenues for IMS and LTE service providers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","610","630","620","632","630","634","640","610","620","630","620"]},"RESTful SMS Web Service supports the following SMS interfaces\/methods toward web application .\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"HTTP",{},{}]},{"entry":["SMS Interface","Method","Verbs","MAP SMS","SMPP PDU"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["SendSms","SendSms","POST","mt-ForwardSM\/SMS-","submit_sm"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"DELIVER","submit_sm_resp"]},{"entry":[{},"GetSmsDeliveryStatus","GET","None"]},{"entry":["SmsNotification","NotifySmsReception","POST","mo-ForwardSM\/SMS-","deliver_sm"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SUBMIT","deliver_sm_resp"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"mo-ForwardSM-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"res\/SMS-SUBMIT for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ACK or ERROR"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"mt-ForwardSM-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"res\/SMS-DELIVER for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ACK or ERROR"]},{"entry":[{},"NotifySmsDelivery","POST","Report-SM-Delivery-","deliver_sm"]},{"entry":[{},"Receipt",{},"Status\/SMS-STATUS-","deliver_sm_resp"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"REPORT"]},{"entry":["ReceiveSms","GetReceivedSms","GET","Its 200 OK response","Its 200 OK"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"maps to mo-","response maps to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ForwardSM\/SMS-","deliver_sm"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SUBMIT"]},{"entry":["SmsNotification","StartSmsNotification","POST","None"]},{"entry":["Manager","StopSmsNotification","DELETE","None"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The RESTful SMS Web Service should support HTTP status codes for return of each of the HTTP verbs. These status codes include but not limited to:\n\n","The examples shown in  further illustrate how conversion system  interfaces web application  with IMS network  when IMS network  uses SIP as a signaling protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["610","640","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/sendsms HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"Authorization: Basic XMVDTdx+"},{"entry":"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"},{"entry":"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"},{"entry":"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201cSendSMS\u201d:[{\u201csendAddress\u201d:\u201csip:+16302241234@acp.alcatel-"},{"entry":"lucent.com\u201d,\u201caddress\u201d:\u201ctel:+16303556789\u201d,\u201cmessage body\u201d:\u201cHello,"},{"entry":"Alice\u201d,\u201cDateTime\u201d:\u201c2010-25T15:30:00\u201d}]}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["610","620","701","620","610","702"]},"Web application  also sends a request to conversion system  for a delivery status report. The status request comprises a GET (GetSmsDeliveryStatus) operation (see arrow ). One example of the GET operation is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GET \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/registration\/7777\/messages HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"Authorization: Basic XMVDTdx+"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Accept application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: 0"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201cDeliveryInformation\u201d:[{\u201caddress\u201d:\u201ctel:+16303556789\u201d,\u201cdeliveryStatus\u201d:"},{"entry":"\u201cDeliveredToNetwork\u201d}]}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Conversion system  extracts address data and the SMS body from the POST (SendSMS) operation, and converts it into a SIP MESSAGE that encapsulates the SMS message. More particularly, the MT SMS message is embedded in the 3GPP MAP RP-DATA (MAP mt-ForwardSM (SMS-DELIVER)) of the SIP MESSAGE. Where MAP RP-DATA is used within the SIP MESSAGE to encapsulate the MT SMS message, the RP-DATA may have the parameters indicated in Table 2.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0059"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Information element","Presence","Usage"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RP-Message Type","M","Set to 001 for RP-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"DATA"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-Message Reference","M","This will be part of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message identity of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"HTTP"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-Originator Address","M","Source address"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-Destination","M","Destination address"]},{"entry":[{},"Address"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-User Data","M","SMS data"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"When the RP-User Data field includes an SMS-DELIVER TPDU for MT SMS messages (see 3GPP TS 23.040), the RP-User Data may have the parameters illustrated in Table 3.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Abbr.","Reference","P","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["TP-MTI","TP-Message-Type-","M","Parameter describing the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator",{},"message type"]},{"entry":["TP-MMS","TP-More-Messages-","M","Parameter indicating whether or"]},{"entry":[{},"to-Send",{},"not there are more messages to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"send"]},{"entry":["TP-LP","TP-Loop-Prevention","M","Parameter indicating that SMS"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"applications should inhibit"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"forwarding or automatic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message generation that could"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"cause infinite looping. Should"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"be set to 0"]},{"entry":["TP-RP","TP-Reply-Path","M","Parameter indicating that Reply"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Path exists"]},{"entry":["TP-UDHI","TP-User-Data-Header-","O","Parameter indicating that the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator",{},"TP-UD field contains a Header"]},{"entry":["TP-SRI","TP-Status-Report-","O","Parameter indicating if the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indication",{},"SME has requested a status"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"report. Could optionally be set"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to 1 if GET"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(GetSmsDeliveryStatus)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"received"]},{"entry":["TP-OA","TP-Originating-","M","Address of the originating SME"]},{"entry":[{},"Address"]},{"entry":["TP-PID","TP-Protocol-Identifier","M","Parameter identifying the above"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"layer protocol, if any"]},{"entry":["TP-DCS","TP-Data-Coding-","M","Parameter identifying the"]},{"entry":[{},"Scheme",{},"coding scheme within the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"TP-User-Data"]},{"entry":["TP-SCTS","TP-Service-Centre-","M","Parameter identifying time"]},{"entry":[{},"Time-Stamp",{},"when the SC received the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message"]},{"entry":["TP-UDL","TP-User-Data-Length","M","Parameter indicating the length"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the TP-User-Data field to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"follow"]},{"entry":["TP-UD","TP-User-Data","O","SMS body"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"After converting the POST operation to a SIP MESSAGE, conversion system  transmits the SIP MESSAGE to IP-SM-GW  (see arrow ). IP-SM-GW  in turn forwards the SIP MESSAGE to S-CSCF  of IMS network  (see arrow ). Because the SMS message is already encapsulated within a SIP MESSAGE, IP-SM-GW  does not have to convert the message from another protocol (e.g., SMPP) to SIP. S-CSCF  then delivers the SIP MESSAGE to UE  (see arrow ). UE  parses the SIP MESSAGE successfully, and responds to conversion system  with a SIP 200 OK (see arrows -).","UE  then parses the RP-DATA of the SIP MESSAGE and determines that the RP-DATA includes an embedded delivery status request in TP-SRI (see Table 3). Therefore, UE  sends another SIP MESSAGE to conversion system  (see arrows -) that includes the status information for the original SIP MESSAGE that carried the SMS message. More particularly, the status information is embedded in the RP-ACK of the SIP MESSAGE. The RP-ACK may have the parameters indicated in Table 4.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Information element","Presence","Usage"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RP-Message Type","M","Set to 010 for RP-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ACK"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-Message Reference","M","this one will be part"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of message identity"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of HTTP message"]},{"entry":[{},"RP-User Data","M","SMS data"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","640","714","716"]},"In response to the SIP MESSAGE that includes the status information for the SIP MESSAGE, conversion system  converts the SIP MESSAGE from UE  into a RESTful status operation that encapsulates the status information. The RESTful status operation in this example is a POST operation (NotifySmsReception). Conversion system  maps parameters from the MAP RP-ACK into the POST operation. One example of the POST operation is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/receivedsmsnotification HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"},{"entry":"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"},{"entry":"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201csenderAddress\u201d: \u201ctel: +16302241234\u201d, \u201csmsServiceActivationNumber\u201d:"},{"entry":"\u201c7777\u201d,\u201cmessage\u201d:\u201cHello, Alice\u201d, \u201cdateTime\u201d:\u201c2010-12-25T16:30:15\u201d}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","717","610","620","718"]},"In addition to providing status information for the SIP MESSAGE, UE  is able to determine whether the SMS message itself was successfully delivered. Even though a SIP MESSAGE that encapsulates the SMS message was successfully received in UE , the SMS message itself may be corrupted in some manner so that it cannot be processed and displayed to an end user. Therefore, UE  is able to determine whether the SMS message was processed and provided to the end user, and generate status information for delivery of the MT SMS message.","UE  sends another SIP MESSAGE to conversion system  that includes the status information for the MT SMS message (see arrows -). The status information (delivery status report) is embedded in the RP-DATA of the SIP MESSAGE (MAP Report-SM-Delivery-Status (SMS-STATUS-REPORT)). The SIP MESSAGE format is the same as the original SIP MESSAGE for the SMS message, but the TPDU in the RP-DATA includes the SMS-STATUS-REPORT as defined by TS 23.040. The RP-User Data may have the parameters illustrated in Table 5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0069"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Abbr.","Reference","P","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["TP-MTI","TP-Message-Type-","M","Parameter describing the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator",{},"message type"]},{"entry":["TP-UDHI","TP-User-Data-Header-","O","Parameter indicating that the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indication",{},"TP-UE field contains a Header"]},{"entry":["TP-MMS","TP-More-Messages-to-","M","Parameter indicating whether or"]},{"entry":[{},"Send",{},"not there are more messages to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"send"]},{"entry":["TP-LP","TP-Loop-Prevention","O","Parameter indicating that SMS"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"applications should inhibit"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"forwarding or automatic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message generation that could"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"cause infinite looping."]},{"entry":["TP-SRQ","TP-Status-Report-","M","Parameter indicating whether"]},{"entry":[{},"Qualifier",{},"the previously submitted TPDU"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"was an SMS-SUBMIT or an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SMS-COMMAND"]},{"entry":["TP-MR","TP-Message-Reference","M","Parameter identifying the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"previously submitted"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SMS-SUBMIT or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SMS-COMMAND"]},{"entry":["TP-RA","TP-Recipient-Address","M","Address of the recipient of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"previously submitted mobile"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"originated short message"]},{"entry":["TP-SCTS","TP-Service-Centre-","M","Parameter identifying time"]},{"entry":[{},"Time-Stamp",{},"when the SC received the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"previously sent SMS-SUBMIT"]},{"entry":["TP-DT","TP-Discharge-Time","M","Parameter identifying the time"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with a particular"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"TP-ST outcome"]},{"entry":["TP-ST","TP-Status","M","Parameter identifying the status"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the previously sent mobile"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"originated short message. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"will be mapped to HTTP"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"delivery information and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"delivery status parameters"]},{"entry":["TP-PI","TP-Parameter-","O","Parameter indicating the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator",{},"presence of any of the optional"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"parameters which follow"]},{"entry":["TP-PID","TP-Protocol-Identifier","O","see clause 9.2.3.9. TP-PID of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"original SMS-SUBMIT"]},{"entry":["TP-DCS","TP-Data-Coding-","O","see clause 9.2.3.10"]},{"entry":[{},"Scheme"]},{"entry":["TP-UDL","TP-User-Data-Length","O","see clause 9.2.3.16"]},{"entry":["TP-UD","TP-User-Data","O","see clause 9.2.3.24"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","640","722","724"]},"In response to the SIP MESSAGE that includes the status information for the SMS message, conversion system  converts the SIP MESSAGE from UE  into a RESTful status operation that encapsulates the status information. The RESTful status operation in this example is a POST operation (NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt). One example of the POST operation is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0071"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/deliveryreceiptnotification HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"},{"entry":"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"},{"entry":"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201crequestedID\u201d:\u201c123456789\u201d,\u201cdeliveryInformation\u201d:{\u201caddress: \u201ctel:"},{"entry":"+16303556789\u201d, \u201cdeliveryStatus\u201d:\u201cdeliveredToNetwork\u201d}}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","725","610","620","726"],"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["610","610","620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/startSmsNotification HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"Authorization: Basic XMVDTdx+"},{"entry":"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"},{"entry":"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"},{"entry":"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201csmsServiceActivationNumber\u201d:\u201ctel:7777\u201d,"},{"entry":"\u201creference\u201d:{\u201cendpoint\u201d:\u201chttp:\/\/135.44. 0.88:8080\/sms\/"},{"entry":"ReceiptSMSNotification\u201d,\u201cinterfaceName\u201d:\u201csmsnotification\u201d,"},{"entry":"\u201ccorrelator\u201d:\u201c6666\u201d},\u201ccriteria\u201d:\u201ca\u201d}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["610","620","801","620","610","802"]},"Assume in this example that an end user of UE  creates a MO SMS message intended for web application . When this occurs, UE  generates a SIP MESSAGE that encapsulates the SMS message in an RP-DATA field (which contains MAP MO-Forward-SM (SMS-SUBMIT)). When the RP-User Data field includes an SMS-SUBMIT TPDU for MO SMS messages (see 3GPP TS 23.040), the RP-User Data may have the parameters illustrated in Table 6.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0075"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Abbr.","Reference","P","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["TP-MTI","TP-Message-Type-","M","Parameter describing the"]},{"entry":[{},"Indicator",{},"message type; set to 01 for SMS-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SUBMIT."]},{"entry":["TP-RD","TP-Reject-","M","Parameter indicating whether or"]},{"entry":[{},"Duplicates",{},"not the SC shall accept an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SMS-SUBMIT for an SM still"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"held in the SC which has the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"same TP-MR and the same"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"TP-DA as a previously submitted"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"SM from the same OA"]},{"entry":["TP-VPF","TP-VPF","M","Parameter indicating whether or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"not the TP-VP field is present."]},{"entry":["TP-RP","TP-Reply-Path","M","Parameter indicating that Reply"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Path exists."]},{"entry":["TP-UDHI","TP-User-Data-","O","Parameter indicating that the"]},{"entry":[{},"Header-Indicator",{},"TP-UD field contains a Header"]},{"entry":["TP-SRR","TP-Status-Report-","O","Parameter indicating if the UE is"]},{"entry":[{},"Request",{},"requesting a status report. If"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sending entity request a deliver"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"status\/receipt. Convert to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"POST(NotifySmsDeliveryStatus)"]},{"entry":["TP-MR","TP- Message-","M","Parameter identifying the"]},{"entry":[{},"Reference",{},"SMS-SUBMIT."]},{"entry":["TP- DA","TP- Destination-","M","Web applications address"]},{"entry":[{},"Address"]},{"entry":["TP- PID","TP- Protocol-","M","Parameter identifying the above"]},{"entry":[{},"Identifier",{},"layer protocol, if any."]},{"entry":["TP- DCS","TP- Data-Coding-","M","Parameter identifying the coding"]},{"entry":[{},"Scheme",{},"scheme within the TP-User-Data."]},{"entry":["TP-VP","TP-Validity-Period","O","Parameter identifying the time"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"from where the message is no"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"longer valid."]},{"entry":["TP-UDL","TP-User-Data-","M","Parameter indicating the length"]},{"entry":[{},"Length",{},"of the TP-User-Data field to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"follow."]},{"entry":["TP-UD","TP-User-Data","O","SMS body"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"UE  then transmits the SIP MESSAGE to conversion system  through IP-SM-GW  and S-CSCF  (see arrows -). Conversion system  responds to UE  with a SIP 200 OK (see arrows -).","After receiving the SIP MESSAGE, conversion system  converts the SIP MESSAGE to a RESTful receive operation that encapsulates the SMS message. The RESTful receive operation comprises a POST operation (NotifySmsReception) that encapsulates the SMS message. The POST operation is used in web application  to receive an MO SMS message when the user is online. One example of the POST operation (NotifySmsReception) is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0078"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/receivedsmsnotification HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: (...)"]},{"entry":[{},"{\u201csenderAddress\u201d:\u201ctel: +16303556789\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201csmsServiceAxtivationNumber\u201d:\u201c7777\u201d,\u201cmessage\u201d:\u201cHello, Bob\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cdateTime\u201d:\u201c2010-12-25T18:30:15\u201d}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","809","610","620","810"]},"The original SIP MESSAGE from UE  included an embedded delivery status request in TP-SRR (see Table 6). Therefore, conversion system  generates a GET (GetSmsDeliveryStatus) operation requesting a delivery status report for the MO SMS message. One example of the GET operation (GetSmsDeliveryStatus) is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0080"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GET \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/registration\/7777\/messages HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"Authorization: Basic XMVDTdx+"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Accept application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: 0"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","811","610","620","812"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0081"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201cDeliveryInformation\u201d:[{\u201caddress\u201d:\u201ctel:+16302441234\u201d,\u201cdeliveryStatus\u201d:"},{"entry":"\u201cDeliveredToNetwork\u201d}]}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Web application  then sends a POST operation (NotifySmsReception) to conversion system  (see arrow ) as an acknowledgement that the MO SMS message was received. One example of the POST operation is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/receivedsmsnotification HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: (...)"]},{"entry":[{},"{\u201csenderAddress\u201d:\u201ctel: +16303356789\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201csmsServiceActivationNumber\u201d:\u201c7777\u201d,\u201cmessage\u201d:\u201cHello, Bob\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cdateTime\u201d:\u201c2010-"]},{"entry":[{},"12-25T18:30:30\u201d}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Conversion system  responds back to web application  with an HTTP 200 OK (see arrow ).","After acquiring the status information from web application , conversion system  provides the status information to IMS network  and\/or UE  as follows. The POST operation from web application  (see arrow ) included a delivery status report for the MO SMS message. Thus, conversion system  converts the POST operation to a SIP MESSAGE that includes the status information. The status information at this point is for the original SIP MESSAGE that carried the MO SMS message. Conversion system  embeds the status information in the RP-ACK of the SIP MESSAGE, and transmits the SIP MESSAGE with the status information to UE  (see arrows -). UE  replies back to conversion system  with a SIP 200 OK (see arrows -).","Because UE  requested a delivery status report for the MO SMS message, web application  also determines whether the MO SMS message was successfully delivered to the user. If so, web application  generates status information (i.e., delivery receipt) for the MO SMS message, and inserts the status information in a POST operation (NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt). One example of the POST operation is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0087"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"POST \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/deliveryreceiptnotification HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"},{"entry":"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"},{"entry":"Host: acp.alcatle-lucent.com"},{"entry":"Content-Type: application\/json"},{"entry":"Content-Length: (...)"},{"entry":"{\u201crequestedID\u201d:\u201c123456789\u201d,\u201cdeliveryInformation\u201d:{\u201caddress: \u201ctel:"},{"entry":"+16302441234\u201d,\u201cdeliveryStatus\u201d:\u201cdeliveredToNetwork\u201d}}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["610","620","821","620","610","822"]},"Conversion system  converts the POST operation (NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt) request to a SIP MESSAGE that includes the status information for the MO SMS message. The status information is embedded in the RP-DATA\/Status of the SIP MESSAGE, such as in the MAP Report-SM-Delivery-Status (SMS-STATUS-REPORT). Conversion system  then transmits the SIP MESSAGE to UE  through IP-SM-GW  and S-CSCF  (see arrows -). UE  replies back to conversion system  with a SIP 200 OK (see arrows -). There may be additional messaging that is used to deliver the MO SMS message and its associated status information, as  gives an overview of the messaging used in the SMS delivery.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["610","640","620","903","905","610","620","620","640","632","634","910","912","640","620","913","915"]},"When the user logs into web application , web application  generates a GET (GetReceivedSms) operation to retrieve MO SMS messages that are stored for the user (if any). One example of the GET operation (GetReceivedSms) is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0091"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GET \/openapi\/sms\/rest\/v1.0\/registration\/7777\/messages HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"Authorization: Basic XMVDTdx+"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Partner-Id: ACP123@acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Service-Id: APP123@ACP123"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: acp.alcatel-lucent.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Accept application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: 0"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["610","620","916","620","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: application\/json"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: (...)"]},{"entry":[{},"{\u201creceivedSMS\u201d:[{\u201csendAddress\u201d:\u201ctel:+16303556789\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201csmsServiceActivation Number\u201d:\u201c7777\u201d,\u201cmessage body\u201d:\u201cHello,"]},{"entry":[{},"Bob\u201d,\u201cDateTime\u201d:\u201c 2010-12-25T18:30:30\u201d}]}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["620","610","917","640","918","925"],"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},"Any of the various elements shown in the figures or described herein may be implemented as hardware, software, firmware, or some combination of these. For example, an element may be implemented as dedicated hardware. Dedicated hardware elements may be referred to as \u201cprocessors\u201d, \u201ccontrollers\u201d, or some similar terminology. When provided by a processor, the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor, by a single shared processor, or by a plurality of individual processors, some of which may be shared. Moreover, explicit use of the term \u201cprocessor\u201d or \u201ccontroller\u201d should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software, and may implicitly include, without limitation, digital signal processor (DSP) hardware, a network processor, application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) or other circuitry, field programmable gate array (FPGA), read only memory (ROM) for storing software, random access memory (RAM), non volatile storage, logic, or some other physical hardware component or module.","Also, an element may be implemented as instructions executable by a processor or a computer to perform the functions of the element. Some examples of instructions are software, program code, and firmware. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to perform the functions of the element. The instructions may be stored on storage devices that are readable by the processor. Some examples of the storage devices are digital or solid-state memories, magnetic storage media such as a magnetic disks and magnetic tapes, hard drives, or optically readable digital data storage media.","Although specific embodiments were described herein, the scope of the invention is not limited to those specific embodiments. The scope of the invention is defined by the following claims and any equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Some embodiments of the present invention are now described, by way of example only, and with reference to the accompanying drawings. The same reference number represents the same element or the same type of element on all drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
