---
title: User affiliations spanning multiple virtual spaces
abstract: Affiliations between users may be facilitated across multiple virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments. Affiliations may be established within individual ones of two or more virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the given virtual space. The affiliations may include a first affiliation within a first virtual space between a group of users including a first user and a second user. A recommendation may be provided for potential affiliations to users in the two or more virtual spaces such that responsive to the first user having an account in a second virtual space, and responsive to the second user creating an account in the second virtual space, the first user may be recommended to the second user for a potential affiliation in the second virtual space based on the first affiliation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868655&OS=08868655&RS=08868655
owner: Kabam, Inc.
number: 08868655
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111209
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates to facilitate affiliations between users across two or more virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments.","Systems exist for forming and\/or recognizing affiliations between users of virtual spaces (e.g., video games or other virtual spaces). An affiliation may include an alliance, guild, cohort, and\/or other affiliation with a discrete group of users. Typically, however, existing approaches involve affiliations limited to a single virtual space.","One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to facilitate affiliations between users across two or more virtual spaces accessible via a virtual environment, in accordance with one or more implementations. In exemplary implementations, a group of users may belong to an affiliation within a first virtual space. For example, the group of users may belong to an alliance within a social network game played in a social network virtual environment. The same affiliation may be \u201ctransported\u201d to other virtual spaces such that the same group of users are affiliated in more that one virtual space. The affiliations in different virtual spaces, which include substantially the same group of users, may be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations, the system may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server, at least one virtual space server, one or more client computing platforms, and\/or other components.","The virtual environment server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module, an environment module, an interaction module, a relationship module, and\/or other modules. The user module may be configured to access and\/or manage one or more user profiles and\/or user information associated with users of the system.","The environment module may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via the client computing platforms. As used herein, a \u201cvirtual environment\u201d may include one or more interactive, electronic social media, and\/or other virtual environments. Interactive, electronic social media may include one or more of a social network, a virtual space, a micro-blogging service, a blog service (or host), a messaging service, a message board, a forum, and\/or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users.","The interaction module may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and\/or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring, for a given user, one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment, areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in, other users the given user interacts with, the nature and\/or content of interactions of the given user with other users, activities participated in within the virtual environment, level, powers, or skill attained in the virtual environment, inventory items obtained in the virtual environment, and\/or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and\/or other users.","At a given time, interaction module may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and\/or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment, performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time (e.g., the last 2 minutes), and\/or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.","The relationship module may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships, connections, followers, social links, and\/or other relationships. The relationship module may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment, and\/or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.","The virtual space server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module, a space account module, a group module, a recommendation module, a translation module, an overarching group module, a communications module, and\/or other modules.","The space module may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms. As used herein, a \u201cvirtual space\u201d may include one or more social network games and\/or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by the environment module of the virtual environment server. For example, a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations, one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.","The space module may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated (e.g., via streaming, via object\/position data, and\/or other information) from the virtual space server to the client computing platforms for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space (e.g., the location from which the view is taken, the location the view depicts, and\/or other locations), a zoom ratio, a dimensionality of objects, a point-of-view, and\/or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.","An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients (e.g., the client computing platforms) that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography, express ongoing real-time interaction by one or more users, and\/or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances, the topography may be a 2-dimensional topography. In other instances, the topography may be a 3-dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space, and\/or surface features of a surface or objects that are \u201cnative\u201d to the space. In some instances, the topography may describe a surface (e.g., a ground surface) that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances, the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein (e.g., a simulation of gravity-deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein). The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous, asynchronous, and\/or semi-synchronous.","Within the instance(s) of a virtual space executed by the space module, users may control characters, objects, simulated physical phenomena (e.g., wind, rain, earthquakes, and\/or other phenomena), and\/or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and\/or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein, the term \u201cuser character\u201d may refer to an object (or group of objects) present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element(s) may move through and interact with the virtual space (e.g., non-user characters in the virtual space, other objects in the virtual space). The user controlled elements controlled by and\/or associated with a given user may be created and\/or customized by the given user. The user may have an \u201cinventory\u201d of virtual goods and\/or currency that the user can use (e.g., by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element, and\/or other items) within the virtual space.","The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and\/or commands input by the users through the client computing platforms. The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat, instant messages, private messages, voice communications, and\/or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms. Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through the virtual space server and\/or the virtual environment server. Within the virtual space, users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space (e.g., a virtual card or board game within the space), or the game may actually be the space (e.g., an online role-playing game, massively multiplayer online game, a social online game, and\/or other games).","The space account module may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information; inventory information; financial information; relationship information; information related to the users determined by one or more other modules; demographic information; usage information; past purchase history; and\/or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username, an avatar name, a real world identification, and\/or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects, virtual currency, and\/or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and\/or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and\/or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and\/or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds, virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space, and\/or other funds.","The group module may be configured to a group module configured to establish and\/or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example, a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user, a second user, and\/or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.","The group module may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication (e.g., a request) initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations, the group module may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space (e.g., faction-mates are formed based on avatar configuration), through recognized user behavior over time (e.g., raid members or player-versus-player partners), and\/or other approaches for establishing affiliations.","Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance, purpose, and\/or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure, a role structure, and\/or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example, a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non-limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space, affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non-affiliates such as sharing and\/or trading goods, services, player characters, and\/or items in the virtual space; and\/or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.","The recommendation module may be configured to recommend potential affiliations to users in the two or more virtual spaces. For example, where the first user and the second user belong to the first affiliation in the first virtual space, the recommendation module may be configured such that responsive to the first user having an account in a second virtual space, and responsive to the second user creating an account in the second virtual space, the first user is recommended to the second user for a potential affiliation in the second virtual space based on the first affiliation. The recommendation module may be configured to enable the second user to opt-in or opt-out of the potential affiliation with the first user.","The translation module may be configured to translate relationships associated with an affiliation to relationships associated with another affiliation. For example, the translation module may translate a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space to a potential relationship between the first user and the second user in the potential affiliation in the second virtual space. The potential affiliation recommended to the second user may be determined based on parameters of the first affiliation. Examples of parameters of an affiliation may include one or more of an affiliation type, an amount of time two or more users (e.g., the first user and the second user) spent engaging the virtual space together, a value added by the affiliation for the users, a caliber of the affiliation relative to other affiliations in the same virtual space, a progress level of the affiliation within the virtual space, and\/or other affiliation parameters.","The overarching group module may be configured to determine one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non-limiting example, a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space (e.g., a team) and an affiliation in another virtual space (e.g., a gang), where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack, a cooperative defense, resource trading, troupe enforcements, and\/or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt-in or opt-out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.","The overarching group module may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically, manually, and\/or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations, the overarching group module may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations, responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space, the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces, according to some implementations.","The communications module may be configured to facilitate communications between users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. Such communications may occur within a virtual environment provided by the environment module of the virtual environment server. In some implementations, communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation may occur outside of the virtual environment. This may be the case where the overarching affiliation encompasses affiliations in different virtual spaces that are accessed via different virtual environments.","These and other features, and characteristics of the present technology, as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this specification, wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims, the singular form of \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d, and \u201cthe\u201d include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"In some implementations, system  may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server , at least one virtual space server , and\/or other components. The virtual environment server  and\/or virtual space server  may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms  according to a client\/server architecture to provide the virtual environment and\/or the virtual space to users via client computing platforms . The virtual space server  may be configured to interface with virtual environment server  to supplement the functionality provided to the users with respect to the virtual environment and\/or the virtual space. For example, virtual space server  may interface with virtual environment server  via one or more application programming interfaces.","The virtual environment server  may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module , an environment module , an interaction module , a relationship module , and\/or other modules.","The user module  may be configured to access and\/or manage one or more user profiles and\/or user information associated with users of system . The one or more user profiles and\/or user information may include information stored by virtual environment server , virtual space server , one or more of the client computing platforms , and\/or other storage locations. The user profiles may include, for example, information identifying users (e.g., a username or handle, a number, an identifier, and\/or other identifying information) within the virtual environment, security login information (e.g., a login code or password), virtual environment account information, subscription information, virtual currency account information (e.g., related to currency held in credit for a user), relationship information (e.g., information related to relationships between users in the virtual environment), virtual environment usage information, demographic information associated with users, interaction history among users in the virtual environment, information stated by users, purchase information of users, browsing history of users, a client computing platform identification associated with a user, a phone number associated with a user, and\/or other information related to users.","The environment module  may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via client computing platforms . As used herein, a \u201cvirtual environment\u201d may include one or more interactive, electronic social media, and\/or other virtual environments. Interactive, electronic social media may include one or more of a social network, a virtual space, a micro-blogging service, a blog service (or host), a messaging service, a message board, a forum, and\/or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users. Some non-limiting specific examples of interactive, electronic social media may include the social network provided by Facebook\u2122, the social network provided by MySpace\u2122, the social network provided by Google+\u2122, the social network provided by Qzone\u2122, the social network provided by Foursquare\u00ae, the micro-blogging service provided by Twitter\u2122, the virtual world provided by SecondLife\u00ae, the massively multi-player online game provided by World of Warcraft\u00ae, the file sharing service provided by Flickr\u00ae, Blogger, YouTube, PlayStation\u00ae Home, Xbox\u00ae Live, and\/or other interactive, electronic social media.","The interaction module  may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and\/or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring, for a given user, one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment, areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in, other users the given user interacts with, the nature and\/or content of interactions of the given user with other users, activities participated in within the virtual environment, level, powers, or skill attained in the virtual environment, inventory items obtained in the virtual environment, and\/or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and\/or other users. Some or all of the information generated by interaction module  in monitoring the interactions of the users may be stored to the user profiles managed by user module .","At a given time, interaction module  may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and\/or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment, performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time (e.g., the last 2 minutes), and\/or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.","The relationship module  may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships, connections, followers, social links, and\/or other relationships. The relationship module  may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of a relationship may be initiated by a single communication (e.g., a request) initiated by a given user requesting a relationship between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of a relationship may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment, and\/or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.","The virtual space server  may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module , a space account module , a group module , a recommendation module , a translation module , an overarching group module , a communications module , and\/or other modules.","The space module  may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms . As used herein, a \u201cvirtual space\u201d may include one or more social network games and\/or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by environment module  of virtual environment server . For example, a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations, one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.","The space module  may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated (e.g., via streaming, via object\/position data, and\/or other information) from virtual space server  to client computing platforms  for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform  may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform . The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform  may correspond to a location in the virtual space (e.g., the location from which the view is taken, the location the view depicts, and\/or other locations), a zoom ratio, a dimensionality of objects, a point-of-view, and\/or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.","An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients (e.g., client computing platforms ) that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography, express ongoing real-time interaction by one or more users, and\/or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances, the topography may be a 2-dimensional topography. In other instances, the topography may be a 3-dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space, and\/or surface features of a surface or objects that are \u201cnative\u201d to the space. In some instances, the topography may describe a surface (e.g., a ground surface) that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances, the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein (e.g., a simulation of gravity-deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein). The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous, asynchronous, and\/or semi-synchronous.","The above description of the manner in which views of virtual spaces are determined by space module  is not intended to be limiting. The space module  may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited, or more rich, manner. For example, views determined for the virtual space may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content (e.g., text, audio, pre-stored video content, and\/or other content) that describes particulars of the current state of the place, beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example, a view may include a generic battle graphic with a textual description of the opponents to be confronted. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.","Within the instance(s) of a virtual space executed by space module , users may control characters, objects, simulated physical phenomena (e.g., wind, rain, earthquakes, and\/or other phenomena), and\/or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and\/or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein, the term \u201cuser character\u201d may refer to an object (or group of objects) present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element(s) may move through and interact with the virtual space (e.g., non-user characters in the virtual space, other objects in the virtual space). The user controlled elements controlled by and\/or associated with a given user may be created and\/or customized by the given user. The user may have an \u201cinventory\u201d of virtual goods and\/or currency that the user can use (e.g., by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element, and\/or other items) within the virtual space.","The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and\/or commands input by the users through client computing platforms . The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat, instant messages, private messages, voice communications, and\/or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms . Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through virtual space server  and\/or virtual environment server . Within the virtual space, users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space (e.g., a virtual card or board game within the space), or the game may actually be the space (e.g., an online role-playing game, massively multiplayer online game, a social online game, and\/or other games).","The space account module  may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information; inventory information; financial information; relationship information; information related to the users determined by one or more of the other modules , , , , , and\/or ; demographic information; usage information; past purchase history; and\/or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username, an avatar name, a real world identification, and\/or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects, virtual currency, and\/or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and\/or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and\/or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and\/or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds, virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space, and\/or other funds.","The group module  may be configured to a group module configured to establish and\/or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example, a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user, a second user, and\/or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.","The group module  may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication (e.g., a request) initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations, group module  may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space (e.g., faction-mates are formed based on avatar configuration), through recognized user behavior over time (e.g., raid members or player-versus-player partners), and\/or other approaches for establishing affiliations.","Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance, purpose, and\/or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure, a role structure, and\/or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example, a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non-limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space, affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non-affiliates such as sharing and\/or trading goods, services, player characters, and\/or items in the virtual space; and\/or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.","The recommendation module  may be configured to recommend potential affiliations to users in the two or more virtual spaces. For example, where the first user and the second user belong to the first affiliation in the first virtual space, recommendation module  may be configured such that responsive to the first user having an account in a second virtual space, and responsive to the second user creating an account in the second virtual space, the first user is recommended to the second user for a potential affiliation in the second virtual space based on the first affiliation. The recommendation module  may be configured to enable the second user to opt-in or opt-out of the potential affiliation with the first user.","The translation module  may be configured to translate relationships associated with an affiliation to relationships associated with another affiliation. For example, translation module  may translate a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space to a potential relationship between the first user and the second user in the potential affiliation in the second virtual space. The potential affiliation recommended to the second user may be determined based on parameters of the first affiliation. Examples of parameters of an affiliation may include one or more of an affiliation type, an amount of time two or more users (e.g., the first user and the second user) spent engaging the virtual space together, a value added by the affiliation for the users, a caliber of the affiliation relative to other affiliations in the same virtual space, a progress level of the affiliation within the virtual space, and\/or other affiliation parameters.","The overarching group module  may be configured to determine one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non-limiting example, a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space (e.g., a team) and an affiliation in another virtual space (e.g., a gang), where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack, a cooperative defense, resource trading, troupe enforcements, and\/or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module  may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt-in or opt-out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.","The overarching group module  may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically, manually, and\/or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations, overarching group module  may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations, responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space, the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces, according to some implementations.","The communications module  may be configured to facilitate communications between users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. Such communications may occur within a virtual environment provided by environment module  of virtual environment server . In some implementations, communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation may occur outside of the virtual environment. This may be the case where the overarching affiliation encompasses affiliations in different virtual spaces that are accessed via different virtual environments.","In some implementations, virtual environment server , virtual space server , client computing platforms , one or more external resources , and\/or other components of system  may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example, such electronic communication links may be established, at least in part, via a network such as the Internet and\/or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which virtual environment server , virtual space server , client computing platforms , external resources , and\/or other components of system  may be operatively linked via some other communication media.","The virtual environment server  may comprise electronic storage , one or more processors , and\/or other components. The virtual environment server  may include communication lines, or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and\/or other computing platforms. The processors  may be configured to execute computer program modules. The processors  may be configured to execute the computer program modules via one or more of hardware, software, and\/or firmware. The computer program modules may include user module , environment module , interaction module , relationship module , and\/or other computer program modules. Although system  may be described in certain sections herein as including virtual environment server , this is not intended to be limiting. The virtual environment server  may be separate and distinct from system , and may be provided by an entity that is separate from, for example, the entity providing virtual space server . In some implementations, the functionality attributed herein to virtual environment server  may be provided by virtual space server .","A given client computing platform  may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given client computing platform  to interface with virtual environment server , virtual space server , and\/or other components of system , and\/or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . By way of non-limiting example, the given client computing platform  may include one or more of a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a handheld computer, a NetBook, a Smartphone, a gaming console, and\/or other computing platforms.","The external resources  may include sources of information, hosts and\/or providers of virtual environments and\/or virtual spaces outside of system , external entities participating with system , and\/or other resources. In some implementations, some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources  may be provided by resources included in system .","The virtual space server  may include electronic storage , one or more processors , and\/or other components. The virtual space server  may include communication lines, or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and\/or other computing platforms. Illustration of virtual space server  in  is not intended to be limiting. The virtual space server  may include a plurality of hardware, software, and\/or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to virtual space server . For example, virtual space server  may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as virtual space server .","Electronic storage  may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage  may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally (i.e., substantially non-removable) with virtual space server  and\/or removable storage that is removably connectable to virtual space server  via, for example, a port (e.g., a USB port, a firewire port, etc.) or a drive (e.g., a disk drive, etc.). Electronic storage  may include one or more of optically readable storage media (e.g., optical disks, etc.), magnetically readable storage media (e.g., magnetic tape, magnetic hard drive, floppy drive, etc.), electrical charge-based storage media (e.g., EEPROM, RAM, etc.), solid-state storage media (e.g., flash drive, etc.), and\/or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage  may include one or more virtual storage resources (e.g., cloud storage, a virtual private network, and\/or other virtual storage resources). Electronic storage  may store software algorithms, information determined by processor , information received from virtual environment server , information received from client computing platforms , and\/or other information that enables virtual space server  to function as described herein.","Processor(s)  is configured to provide information processing capabilities in virtual space server . As such, processor  may include one or more of a digital processor, an analog processor, a digital circuit designed to process information, an analog circuit designed to process information, a state machine, and\/or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor  is shown in  as a single entity, this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations, processor  may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device, or processor  may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor  may be configured to execute space module , space account module , group module , recommendation module , overarching group module , communications module , translation module , and\/or other computer program modules. Processor  may be configured to execute modules , , , , , , , and\/or other modules by software; hardware; firmware; some combination of software, hardware, and\/or firmware; and\/or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .","It should be appreciated that although modules , , , , , , and  are illustrated in  as being co-located within a single processing unit, in implementations in which processor  includes multiple processing units, one or more of modules , , , , , , and\/or  may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules , , , , , , and\/or  described below is for illustrative purposes, and is not intended to be limiting, as any of modules , , , , , , and\/or  may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example, one or more of modules , , , , , , and\/or  may be eliminated, and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules , , , , , , and\/or . As another example, processor  may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules , , , , , , and\/or .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","106","200","102","104","200","122","124","104","200","200","202","204","200","200"]},"The primary affiliation fields  may be associated with primary affiliations, while secondary affiliation fields  may be associated with secondary affiliations. The first user may belong to the primary affiliations. The first user may not belong to the secondary affiliations. The primary and secondary affiliations may be encompassed by the same overarching affiliation. The first user may be currently engaged in a virtual space in which a primary affiliation exists, currently engaged in a virtual environment in which such a virtual space can be accessed, and\/or not engaged in such a virtual space and\/or virtual environment.","A given one of the primary affiliation fields  associated with a given primary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , an accept\/decline field , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given primary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given primary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given primary affiliation. Examples of a type of a primary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given primary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given primary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user.","The accept\/decline field  may be selectable and\/or configured to receive an entry to enable the first user to join or otherwise initiate joining one or more of the secondary affiliations associated with the secondary affiliation fields . In some implementations, the first user may join all of the secondary affiliations associated with the secondary affiliation fields  at the same time. In some implementations, the first user may join only selected ones of the secondary affiliations associated with the secondary affiliation fields . The accept\/decline field  may provide a request to join individual ones of the secondary affiliations associated with the secondary affiliation fields . In order to join, such a request may require approval by one or more other users belonging to individual ones of the secondary affiliations associated with the secondary affiliation fields .","A given one of the secondary affiliation fields  associated with a given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , an accept\/decline field , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given secondary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given secondary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given secondary affiliation. Examples of a type of a secondary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given secondary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user. In some implementations, only user belonging to the given secondary affiliation and who have an existing relationship with the first user are identified by user identification fields .","The accept\/decline field  may be selectable and\/or configured to receive an entry to enable the first user to join or otherwise initiate joining the given secondary affiliation associated with the given secondary affiliation field . The accept\/decline field  may provide a request to join the given secondary affiliation associated with the given secondary affiliation field . In order to join, such a request may require approval by one or more other users belonging to the given secondary affiliation associated with the given secondary affiliation field . In some implementations, accept\/decline field  may be configured to enable the first user to designate the given secondary affiliation as one to be joined via accept\/decline field  of the given primary affiliation field .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","106","300","102","104","300","122","124","104","300","300","302","304","300","300"]},"The primary affiliation fields  may be associated with primary affiliations, while secondary affiliation fields  may be associated with secondary affiliations. The first user may belong to the primary affiliations. The first user may or may not belong to the secondary affiliations. The primary affiliations may be encompassed by a first overarching affiliation. The secondary affiliations may not be encompassed by the first overarching affiliation. The first user may be currently engaged in a virtual space in which a primary affiliation exists, currently engaged in a virtual environment in which such a virtual space can be accessed, and\/or not engaged in such a virtual space and\/or virtual environment.","A given one of the primary affiliation fields  associated with a given primary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given primary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given primary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given primary affiliation. Examples of a type of a primary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given primary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given primary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user.","A given one of the secondary affiliation fields  associated with a given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , an affiliation linking field , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given secondary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given secondary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given secondary affiliation. Examples of a type of a secondary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given secondary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user. In some implementations, only user belonging to the given secondary affiliation and who have an existing relationship with the first user are identified by user identification fields .","The affiliation linking field  may be selectable and\/or configured to receive an entry to enable the first user to link the given secondary affiliation so that the given secondary affiliation is encompassed by the first overarching affiliation. The first user may link the given secondary affiliation by selecting a check box and\/or radio button, entering text, clicking an icon, and\/or providing another indication to link the given secondary affiliation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","106","400","102","104","400","122","124","104","400","400","402","404","400","400"]},"The primary affiliation fields  may be associated with primary affiliations, while secondary affiliation fields  may be associated with secondary affiliations. The primary and secondary affiliations may be encompassed by the same overarching affiliation. The first user and the second user may belong to the primary affiliations so that the first user and the second user have a relationship in the primary affiliations. The first user may have joined a given one of the secondary affiliations and the second user may not belong to the given secondary affiliation, or the second user may have joined the given secondary affiliation and the first user may not belong to the given secondary affiliation. The user interface  may be presented to the first user responsive to the first user or the second user joining the given secondary affiliation. The user interface  may include recommendations that the first user join one or more of the secondary affiliations to which the second user belongs. The first user may be currently engaged in a virtual space in which a primary affiliation exists, currently engaged in a virtual environment in which such a virtual space can be accessed, and\/or not engaged in such a virtual space and\/or virtual environment.","A given one of the primary affiliation fields  associated with a given primary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given primary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given primary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given primary affiliation. Examples of a type of a primary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given primary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given primary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user.","A given one of the secondary affiliation fields  associated with a given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a virtual space identification field , an affiliation type field , one or more user identification fields , a recommendation acceptance field , and\/or other fields and\/or information associated with the given secondary affiliation.","The virtual space identification field  may include information that identifies a virtual space in which the given secondary affiliation exists. Examples of information that identifies a virtual space may include one or more of a name of a virtual space, an image associated with a virtual space, and\/or other information configured to identify a virtual space.","The affiliation type field  may include information that identifies a type of the given secondary affiliation. Examples of a type of a secondary affiliation may include one or more of an alliance, a guild, a faction, a club, an association, a group, a crew, a band, a clan, a family, fellowship, a gang, a league, a partnership, a syndicate, a society, a tribe, a troop, a company, and\/or other types of affiliations. The type of the affiliation may be conveyed by one or more of text, an image, a number, and\/or other information.","Individual ones of the user identification fields  may include information that identifies one or more users belonging to the given secondary affiliation. Examples of information that identifies users belonging to the given secondary affiliation may include one or more of a name of a user, an image associated with a user, a username associated with a user, a nickname associated with a user, and\/or other information configured to identify a user. In some implementations, only user belonging to the given secondary affiliation and who have an existing relationship with the first user are identified by user identification fields .","The recommendation acceptance field  may be selectable and\/or configured to receive an entry to enable the first user to accept a recommendation to join a secondary affiliation. In some implementations, the recommendation acceptance field  may provide a request to join a secondary affiliation associated with a secondary affiliation field . In order to join, such a request may require approval by one or more other users belonging to the secondary affiliation associated with the secondary affiliation field .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","500","500","500"]},"In some implementations, method  may be implemented in one or more processing devices (e.g., a digital processor, an analog processor, a digital circuit designed to process information, an analog circuit designed to process information, a state machine, and\/or other mechanisms for electronically processing information). The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method  in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware, firmware, and\/or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .","At an operation , affiliations may be established within individual ones of the two or more virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the given virtual space. The affiliations may comprise a first affiliation within a first virtual space between a group of users including a first user and a second user. In accordance with some implementations, operation  may be performed by a group module that is the same or similar to group module .","At an operation , a recommendation may be provided for potential affiliations to users in the two or more virtual spaces. In some implementations, responsive to the first user having an account in a second virtual space, and responsive to the second user creating an account in the second virtual space, the first user may be recommended to the second user for a potential affiliation in the second virtual space based on the first affiliation. In accordance with some implementations, operation  may be performed by a recommendation module that is the same or similar to recommendation module .","At an operation , one or more overarching affiliations may be determined. An individual overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. In accordance with some implementations, operation  may be performed by an overarching group module that is the same or similar to overarching group module .","At an operation , a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may be translated to a potential relationship between the first user and the second user in the potential affiliation in the second virtual space. In accordance with some implementations, operation  may be performed by a translation module that is the same or similar to translation module .","At an operation , communications between users belonging to a common overarching affiliation may be facilitated. The communications may occur within a virtual environment, within a virtual space, and\/or outside of a virtual environment or virtual space. In accordance with some implementations, operation  may be performed by a communications module that is the same or similar to communications module .","Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations, but, on the contrary, is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that, to the extent possible, one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
