---
title: Removal of expiring items from inventory
abstract: Systems and methods for the removal of expiring items from inventory are disclosed. In some embodiments, a method includes determining a breakeven holding time for an inventory item and calculating, based at least in part on a demand forecast for the inventory item and on the breakeven holding time, a first quantity of the inventory item to be removed from the inventory. The method also includes identifying an expiration time corresponding to the given inventory item and, in response to the expiration time being shorter than the breakeven holding time, calculating a second quantity of the inventory item, where a difference between the second and first quantities represents an additional quantity of the inventory item to be removed from the inventory. The method further includes causing at least one portion of the additional quantity of the inventory item to be removed from the inventory according to an inventory removal function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447665&OS=08447665&RS=08447665
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08447665
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery, a merchant (whether engaging in electronic or conventional \u201cbrick and mortar\u201d commerce) may hold various quantities of such items within one or more inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand, or in a manufacturer or distributor's ability to supply various items. For example, different items offered for sale by the merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items in inventory may enable the merchant to offer a more consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.","Many merchants employ inventory management schemes that attempt to ensure that the inventory on hand is sufficient to cover expected customer order volumes for a particular period of time. In other words, inventory management schemes typically focus only on whether there is enough inventory on hand to meet projected demand. However, storing inventory is not without complications. For example, providing and maintaining a physical facility in which to store inventory presents recurring infrastructure costs directly attributable to the inventory items stored in the facility. Further, while items are in storage awaiting sale, debt or capital costs associated with the items may accumulate. Items being held in inventory may also depreciate, become obsolete, expire or spoil (e.g., in the case of perishable items), become damaged, or otherwise incur other costs attributable to holding. As such, when these and other inventory holding costs are considered, having too much inventory may also become a concern.","While the specification is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the appended claims to the particular form disclosed, but on the contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the specification.","Introduction","In the sections below, this specification describes inventory management systems, followed by a discussion of several concepts related to inventory health. The specification then discloses an inventory health software module, as well as various techniques that may be used for removing expiring items from inventory. Lastly, the specification describes a computer system suitable for implementing systems and methods described herein.","Inventory Management","One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment, fulfillment center  includes a receiving area , a storage area  configured to store an arbitrary number of inventory items -, and a packing\/shipping area . The arrangement of the various areas within the illustrated embodiment of fulfillment center  is depicted functionally rather than schematically. For example, in some embodiments, it is noted that multiple different receiving areas , storage areas  and packing\/shipping areas  may be interspersed rather than segregated. Additionally, fulfillment center  includes an inventory management system  configured to interact with each of receiving area , storage area  and packing\/shipping area .","Fulfillment center  may be configured to receive different kinds of inventory items  from various suppliers and to store them until a customer order specifying particular ones of items  is received. The particular items  may then be selected from storage and sent to the customer. The general flow of items through fulfillment center  is indicated using arrows. Specifically, in the illustrated embodiment, items  may be received from one or more suppliers, such as manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, etc. at receiving area . In various embodiments, items  may include merchandise, commodities, perishables, or any suitable type of item depending on the nature of the enterprise that operates fulfillment center . Upon being received from a supplier at receiving area , items  may be prepared for storage. For example, in some embodiments items  may be unpacked or otherwise rearranged, and inventory management system  (which, as described below, may include one or more software applications executing on a computer system) may be updated to reflect the type, quantity, condition, cost or any other suitable parameters with respect to newly received items . It is noted that items  may be stocked, managed or dispensed in terms of countable, individual units or multiples of units, such as packages, cartons, crates, pallets or other suitable aggregations. Alternatively, some items  such as bulk products, commodities, etc. may be stored in continuous or arbitrarily divisible amounts that may not be inherently organized into countable units. Such items  may be managed in terms of measurable quantities such as units of length, area, volume, weight, time duration or other dimensional properties characterized by units of measurement. Generally speaking, a quantity of an item  may refer to either a countable number of individual or aggregate units of an item  or a measurable amount of an item , as appropriate.","After arriving through receiving area , items  may be stored within storage area . In some embodiments, like items  may be stored together in bins, on shelves or via other suitable storage mechanisms, such that all items  of a given kind are stored in one location. In other embodiments, like items  may be stored in different locations. For example, to optimize retrieval of certain items  having high turnover within a large physical facility, those items  may be stored in several different locations to reduce congestion that might occur at a single point of storage.","When a customer order specifying one or more of items  is received, the corresponding items  may be selected or \u201cpicked\u201d from storage area . In various embodiments, item picking may range from minimally automated to completely automated picking. For example, in one embodiment fulfillment center employees may pick items  using written or electronic pick lists derived from customer orders, while in another embodiment conveyor belts and robotics may be used to pick and transfer items . After the items  corresponding to a particular order are picked, they may be processed at packing\/shipping area  for delivery to the customer. For example, items may be packaged for shipment to the customer using a common carrier, or simply bagged or otherwise prepared for direct transfer to a customer, e.g., at an order pickup counter. In some embodiments, further interaction with inventory management system  may occur when items  are picked from storage area  and\/or processed at packing\/shipping area , for example to update inventory records to reflect the removal of inventory, to record revenue for the sale or other transaction (e.g., lease, rental, exchange, etc.) and so forth.","Management of items  stored as inventory within fulfillment center  presents complex optimization problems. Generally speaking, the level of inventory of a given item  may affect the quality of service associated with providing the given item to a customer. Quality of service may encompass factors such as general availability and selection of items , timeliness of order completion, or any other factors relevant to a customer's perceived experience in conducting business relating to items . As an example of the interaction between inventory levels and quality of service, if a particular item  ordered by a customer is not in stock within fulfillment center , the customer may be forced to wait for delivery until that particular item  can be obtained, or the customer may cancel the order resulting in a lost sale. Consequently, keeping a number of units of items  on hand may assist in the timely fulfillment of orders and increase customer satisfaction. A larger inventory, for example, may more readily accommodate unexpected increases in customer demand.","However, various costs are typically associated with holding items  in storage for any period of time. In some embodiments, holding a unit of an item  in storage within storage area  may incur incremental storage costs. For example, the cost of providing fulfillment center  in which items  may be stored may include recurring real estate costs (e.g., lease costs, debt service, etc.), personnel costs, facilities costs (e.g., utilities, maintenance, etc.) and any other costs associated with fulfillment center . In an embodiment, such costs may be incrementally apportioned to a given unit of an item  according to an area or volume of storage space occupied by that unit. For example, storage costs may be applied to each unit of each item  at a rate of dollars per square\/cubic foot of item volume per unit of storage time (day, week, month, etc.). In other embodiments, different cost allocation methods may be employed. For example, in an embodiment the costs of providing special storage or handling, such as refrigeration, controlled atmosphere, etc. may exclusively be allocated to those items  that require such measures, rather than averaging those costs across all items . Similarly, in an embodiment, storage may include temporary capacity (e.g., short-term leased space, seasonal overflow capacity, etc.) as well as permanent capacity (e.g., owned space, year-round capacity, etc.), each of which may have different cost characteristics. Correspondingly, in some such embodiments items  stored within a particular type of facility may exclusively incur costs of the particular type of facility according to their storage utilization (e.g., area, volume, etc.). Alternatively, storage costs may be allocated to items  based upon their value or sales volume as opposed to their size. In some embodiments, additional costs associated with obtaining a given item , such as transportation\/handling costs charged by a supplier or incurred by eventual shipment to a customer, may be included within storage costs for that given item .","In addition to storage costs, in some embodiments, holding a unit of an item  in storage may result in capital or economic costs related to the price paid to obtain the item. That is, once working capital or cash flow is committed to a unit of an item  (e.g., once that unit is paid for), that economic value is not available for other purposes; the committed value is \u201ctied up\u201d in the corresponding inventory. Depending on the accounting scheme used to manage the costs of inventory, a cost of debt or other time-value-of-money cost (also referred to as an economic cost) may be associated with the price paid for a given unit of an item . For example, in an embodiment an effective annual interest rate of 6% may be applied to the price paid for a unit of inventory and may continue to accrue until that unit is sold or otherwise disposed of. In some embodiments, economic costs may be applied to storage costs in addition to the price paid for a unit of inventory. In certain cases, negative economic costs may also be associated with units of items . For example, a supplier may offer a rebate for an item  that effectively reduces its cost.","Other types of costs may also be associated with holding units of items  in storage. For example, in the ordinary course of operation of fulfillment center , items  may be subject to loss or damage due to accidents or mishaps. A rate of loss, or a corresponding rate of insurance against such loss, may be included within an overall cost of holding a unit of an item . In some embodiments, two or more of the costs described herein may be combined or added to make up an item's holding cost. In some cases, such holding costs may be expressed as a fixed dollar amount (e.g., $5.00). In other cases, holding costs may be expressed as a dollar amount over a period of time (e.g., $0.50\/week).","In addition to the foregoing, at least some of items  may also depreciate, expire, spoil and\/or become obsolete. For example, in some embodiments, one or more of items  may be consumable or perishable products (e.g., food, drink, medicine, chemicals, etc.) that have expiration dates or shelf lives. Generally, a product's shelf life is associated with its quality, whereas the product's expiration is related to its safety (e.g., safe to use or consume). Accordingly, after the shelf life of a product has passed, it may still be safe (i.e., it may not have actually expired yet) although its quality is no longer guaranteed. As a practical matter, for some types of products, shelf lives and expiration dates may be used interchangeably. In some cases, however, a determination that product's shelf life has been reached (or is about to be reached) may serve as an indication that the product should to be disposed as soon as possible (e.g., via a sale, liquidation, or some other alternative disposition channel), or at least at some time prior to its expiration date.","Typically, an item's expiration date or shelf life may be expressed in different forms. For example, typical ways of indicating such dates include \u201cbest before\u201d or \u201cbest by,\u201d which ordinarily refer to the product's shelf life and are advisory in nature. Other known ways of indicating these types of dates is through use of the term \u201cuse by,\u201d which often refers to actual expiration. In the United States, the Food & Drug Administration as well as the Agriculture Department may periodically issue and revise regulations governing the use of various products expirations dates or the like. Moreover, certain product manufacturers may voluntarily add such information to its products' packages in the absence of such regulations.","In some embodiments, one or more of items  may be non-perishable products that may nonetheless be considered to have an \u201cexpiration date\u201d or time. For example, an electronic product (e.g., a cellular phone, television, media player, computer, etc.) may be rendered obsolete in later stages of its lifecycle. In general, a product's lifecycle may be divided various stages, including, for example: introduction, growth, maturity, and saturation\/decline. As such, in some cases a product may be seen as having expired upon the beginning of its declining stage. In other cases, however, any other point in the product's lifecycle may be arbitrarily chosen as its expiration date.","In certain embodiments, a non-perishable product may be said to expire upon the release of a new version or revision of the same product. For example, if a distributor expects that a subsequent version or revision of a given a product will be available on a particular date, the current of that product may be seen as expiring on that same date. Additionally or alternatively, a given version of a product may be considered as expiring a specified amount of time (e.g., a few days, a week, a month, etc.) before or after the release date of the newer version. Moreover, a particular product may be thought of as expiring upon the release of another, competing product.","In some embodiments, the expiration of a particular product may be represented as a particular point in time, such as a calendar date (e.g., Dec. 31, 2011) or a length of time (e.g., 3 months from the product's manufacturing or purchase order). In other embodiments, the expiration may be represented by a distribution function that may be indicative of reduced demand for that product before and\/or after a particular date. When the expiration time is expressed as a distribution, any suitable form of statistical calculation (e.g., mean, median, etc.) may be applied to extract a date or time from the distribution.","Inventory Health","Generally speaking, holding a larger inventory of an item  may better enable an enterprise to absorb fluctuations in demand for that item. However, in some circumstances, the various holding costs may erode some of the advantages of keeping inventory. At any given point in time, an enterprise may have at least two options with respect to a unit of a particular item . The enterprise may hold the unit within fulfillment center  until it is sold to a customer through a sales channel, or may dispose of the unit as soon as possible through one or more alternative disposition channels. When the enterprise selects the latter option, it may have to rebuy additional units of the same product at a later date, for example, to satisfy an increased demand or simply to maintain a certain level of inventory over time. As described in greater detail below, in some situations it may be more economically advantageous for the enterprise to dispose of a certain quantity of the inventory item (and reduce or eliminate its associated holding costs) until a subsequent rebuy period.","A sales channel may encompass any suitable method, technique or relationship for conducting a transaction with a typical customer of an enterprise, in response to an actual or expected customer order or request. As such, a sales channel may include various features configured to present to customers information about items  (e.g., availability and pricing information, product details, images, etc.) as well as features configured to support the receipt and processing of customer orders or requests. For example, a retail enterprise that generally sells merchandise to end consumers (e.g., as merchandise not generally intended for resale as new) may sell through an online, web-based channel that may include an online catalog or portal configured to display information about items , a web-based order entry system such as a virtual shopping cart or other system, a status tracking tool through which customers may track the status or progress of orders, a search engine, or any of a number of other features suitable for promoting the conduction of sales transactions.","In contrast, a disposition channel may generally encompass any suitable method, technique or relationship for disposing of units of an item  as an alternative to a sale through a sales channel. In various embodiments, a disposition channel may include a vendor return channel through which units of an item  may be returned to a vendor or supplier for credit, a liquidation channel through which units may be liquidated through a third party, a salvage channel through which units may be disposed for scrap or salvage value, or a donation channel through which units may be donated, e.g., to a charitable cause. In other embodiments, a disposition channel may include a second sales channel that is an alternative to a preferred sales channel. For example, a disposition channel may include a promotional sales channel through which units of an item  are offered at a discount (e.g., according to the condition of the units, quantity on hand, or other relevant factors), bundled with units of other items  (e.g., as part of a \u201cbuy X, get Y free\u201d offer), offered for sale through an auction or bidding process, offered for sale through a promotional or marketing partner affiliated with the enterprise, or any other suitable disposition arrangement. In some embodiments, different terms and conditions may apply to a sale of an item  that occurs through a disposition channel versus a sale that occurs through a sales channel. For example, a customer buying a unit of an item  via sales channel may receive certain return, exchange, warranty or satisfaction privileges or guarantees that may not apply to purchases of that item  through a disposition channel.","The value of a unit of a given item  may generally correspond to the economic consideration that may be obtained for it via a specific channel. For example, a unit of an item  may be sold via sales channel for a particular price, which may be indicative of the value of a unit of item  with respect to sales channel. On the other hand, the same unit of the same item  may be disposed of via disposition channel for a different level of economic consideration. For example, the unit may be returned to a vendor for a percentage of the original purchase cost of the unit, sold to a liquidator, or disposed of via any other suitable method such as described above. Economic consideration received in exchange for an item  may typically include monetary consideration, but may also include other consideration such as credit relating to current or future transactions, bartered goods or services, or any other form of value agreeable to the parties participating in the exchange.","When considering revenue alone, it may often be preferable to sell a given item  via sales channel rather than to dispose of given item  via a disposition channel. However, an enterprise may have little direct control over when a sale event via sales channel may occur, whereas an enterprise may have considerably greater control over initiating disposition via a disposition channel. In certain circumstances, holding costs that accrue until units of an item  are sold via a sales channel may reduce or even eliminate the difference between the sale value and the disposition value of the units. Consequently, even though greater revenue may be realized by waiting for a sale via sales channel to occur, in certain circumstances overall economic value may be preserved or improved by electing to dispose of units of an item  via a disposition channel.","Furthermore, in some cases, after units of an item  are disposed via a disposition channel, the enterprise may find itself rebuying additional units of that item. For example, inventory may need to be replenished in order to avoid out-of-stock, the demand for the item may have increased (e.g., a seasonal product), etc. Typically, the cost of rebuying inventory is higher than its disposition value. Therefore, similarly as discussed above, if holding costs were ignored, it would appear to be generally more advantageous to simply hold on to the present inventory\u2014as opposed to disposing of it through a disposition channel and later rebuying it in order to make a sale through a normal sales channel. However, when holding costs are taken into account, there may be situations where the difference between the rebuy costs and the disposition value is larger than the accrued holding costs over a particular period of time. In those situations, it may be more beneficial for the enterprise to dispose of at least a certain quantity of the item (thus foregoing holding costs for a period of time) and then replenishing inventory at a later date.","By examining the value that may be received for a given item  via a disposition channel in conjunction with the rebuy and holding costs associated with a given item , a breakeven holding time may be determined at which holding costs approximately equal the difference in value between the rebuy costs and the disposition value of the given item . In some embodiments, the breakeven holding time may then be used to determine an inventory policy that may cause actions to be taken against items , such as whether to hold or dispose of items .","At a general level of abstraction, the logic behind an inventory policy that takes into account a breakeven holding time may be summarized as follows: Suppose an item  may be purchased (or \u201cre-bought\u201d) through a purchasing channel for a higher cost than is expected to be received by disposing of the item  through a disposition channel. Then, it may be expected that any given unit of item  may be profitably held in inventory until the costs of holding the unit approximately equal the difference between the rebuy cost and the disposition value. After this point, referred to as the breakeven holding time, accumulated holding costs may exceed the difference such that it would be more profitable to dispose of the item now and rebuy it later. For example, a particular item  may have a rebuy cost of 6 dollars and a disposition value of 1 dollar, and it may incur holding costs of 1 dollar per week. Thus, the breakeven holding time for the particular item  may be 5 weeks, at which time the accumulated holding costs may be expected to total 5 dollars, which is equal to the difference between the rebuy cost and disposition value.","In some cases, the breakeven holding time may be used in determining a healthy level of inventory. Generally speaking, a healthy level of inventory of an item  may correspond to the total expected demand for that item  through the breakeven holding time. That is, if the breakeven holding time represents the \u201ctipping point\u201d for an item\u2014i.e., the point at which the expected economic loss attributable to removing the item from inventory now and re-buying it at the end of a specified time period is approximately equal to the expected loss due to holding costs during that period. The total amount of inventory of the item may be considered healthy (e.g., not at risk of incurring excessive holding costs) if the inventory would be expected to be sold via a sales channel prior to the breakeven holding time. In other words, if the inventory on hand of an item is expected to \u201cturn over\u201d (e.g., be sold and possibly replaced) prior to the breakeven holding time, the inventory on hand may be considered healthy.","For instance, referring to the previous example, if the demand or sales rate of particular item  is 2 units per week, then given the breakeven holding time of 5 weeks, a healthy inventory level for the particular item  may be 10 units. To the extent an enterprise may currently hold inventory units in excess of 10 units, the excess units may be deemed unhealthy. As discussed above, in this particular example it may be more economically beneficial for the enterprise to simply dispose of the excess units through a disposition channel and re-buy those units at a later time.","In an embodiment, a breakeven holding time and a healthy inventory level for an item  may be determined as follows. Let r represent the rebuy costs associated with rebuying item  through a purchasing or replenishment channel and let d represent the disposition value of item . In some cases, the disposition value d may be net of associated disposition costs. If more than one disposition channel exists, the disposition channel with the highest current disposition value may be chosen for the analysis. Moreover, if more than one purchasing channel exists, the purchasing channel with lowest rebuy cost may be selected. Additionally or alternatively, an average disposition value and\/or an average rebuy cost may be used. Let h represent the rate of holding cost accrual for a unit of item  per unit of time (e.g., dollars per week, or per some other suitable unit of time). The total breakeven holding time Tfor item  may then be determined by setting the potential loss from rebuying the item after its disposition (r\u2212d) equal to the potential loss from holding item  until the breakeven holding time, and then solving for T. That is,\n\n\u2003\u2003Equation (1)\n\nThis yields:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["T","be"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["r","d"],"mo":"-"},"mi":"h"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}}]}}}}},"Given T, the healthy inventory level H of item  may be determined as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"H","mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","msub":{"mi":["T","be"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"D","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["135","0"],"sub":"be "},"In some embodiments, the accrued holding cost and the difference between rebuy costs and disposition value may not be exactly equal, but rather equal within some equality threshold. That is, two values may be considered equal if their difference is less than the equality threshold, which may be expressed as an absolute value (e.g., a given number of units) or a relative value (e.g., a percentage). For example, units of time or cost may not be arbitrarily divisible. Consequently, rounding or truncation of values may occur during evaluation, which may lead to inexact computation.","In some embodiments, the healthy inventory level H and breakeven time Tmay be determined relative to another inventory policy. For example, an enterprise may establish a target inventory level S of a particular item  that may be used for planning and managing inventory levels of that item . In some embodiments, S may be determined by an optimization process configured to determine an optimal level of inventory given various parameters, such as customer demand, supplier lead time, market dynamics, expected profit margins or other factors. In other embodiments, S may simply be given as an arbitrary inventory level target. Generally speaking, S may be determined in such a way that a desired service level for item  will be achieved for at least a period of time T (the \u201ccoverage period\u201d) with a given degree of certainty. That is, S may denote the amount of inventory needed to cover expected demand to the degree required by the desired service level (e.g., with a certain level of delay or other service parameters) for a period of time T, with a certain probability or certainty. For example, the supply and demand characteristics of a particular item  may be analyzed or modeled to determine that 100 units of that item  are necessary to provide two weeks of inventory coverage with a probability of 99%. Accordingly, in some embodiments, a healthy inventory level may be determined relative to a target inventory level.","The determination of healthy inventory levels described above, however, does not specifically take into consideration expiration dates (or shelf life) of items . In some embodiments, if the expiration time associated with a given item  is identified, an enterprise may determine whether the expiration time is shorter than the breakeven holding time calculated with Equation (2). If it is determined that item  will expire after the breakeven holding time, then typically no further action is deemed necessary, at least with respect to the expiring units. On the other hand, if the expiration time of item  is shorter than the breakeven holding time, an additional amount of unhealthy inventory may be removed. Various techniques for determining amounts of expiring items to be removed from inventory are disclosed in the sections that follow.","As described above, in some embodiments, inventory management system  may be configured to record and analyze the state of inventory items  within fulfillment center . For example, inventory management system  may be implemented as one or more software processes configured to execute on one or more computer systems to create records of the arrival, storage, picking, sale, disposition or other events relating to items  with respect to fulfillment center . In an embodiment, inventory management system  may be configured to analyze the inventory of a particular item , determine whether the inventory level is healthy or unhealthy in accordance with the model derived above, and initiate or suggest action, such as disposition, to be taken with respect to any unhealthy inventory.","In some embodiments, variations in the inventory health model described above may be used to determine levels of healthy and unhealthy inventory. For example, whereas equations (1)-(3) relate specifically to re-procurable items, there may be situations where a \u201chold and sale\u201d model may better describe an enterprise's inventory policy towards a particular inventory item. In those situations, the items' sale value (or average sales value) may replace the item's rebuy costs (or average rebuy costs) in equations (1) and (2). Moreover, in alternative embodiments, other suitable inventory health models may be employed.","An Inventory Health Software Module","Referring to , a block diagram of an inventory health (IH) software module is depicted according to some embodiments. As illustrated, IH module  provides user interface , which allows user  to interact with IH module  and access some or all of its various features. In some implementations, user interface  may be a graphical user interface (GUI) or a web-based user interface (WUI) that implements Java\u2122, AJAX, Adobe\u00ae Flex\u00ae, Microsoft\u00ae .NET, or similar technologies to enable real-time user control. In other cases, user interface  may be a command line interface or the like.","IH module  may utilize a set of rules or specifications (e.g., an Application Programming Interface (API)) to access and\/or make use of the services and resources provided by disposition module , purchasing module , forecasting module , and\/or inventory database . In some embodiments, one or more of these various elements may have its own user interface to allow independent user access. Moreover, generally speaking some or all of modules or elements - may be bi-directionally interconnected such that each such module is configured to send and receive messages from other modules. As shown in this particular embodiment, IH module  may communicate bi-directionally with disposition module  and purchasing module . IH module may also receive information from forecasting module , and each of modules - may receive information from inventory database .","Disposition module  may include algorithms and\/or data structures that are configured to determine a disposition value (d) for one or more of inventory items  stored in inventory database  and to provide such disposition value to IH module . In some cases, disposition module  may determine two or more disposition values for two or more corresponding disposition channels (e.g., sale, return to manufacturer, etc.), and may provide the highest disposition value (d) to IH module . Additionally or alternatively, disposition module  may use an average (or some other combination) of the two or more disposition values. To make these determinations, disposition module  may include, for example, a list of disposition channels and associated disposition values. In addition, disposition module  may be configured to receive an indication or recommendation from IH module  as to a quantity of a particular item to be removed from inventory (e.g., at least a portion of unhealthy inventory) and\/or the timing of such removal (e.g., immediately, within a period of time, etc.).","Similarly, purchasing module  may be configured to determine a rebuy cost (r) for one or more of inventory items  stored in inventory database  and to provide it to IH module . In some cases, purchasing module  may determine two or more rebuy costs for two or more purchasing channels (e.g., from a manufacturer, distributor, etc.), and may provide the highest rebuy cost (r) to IH module . Alternatively, purchasing module  may use an average (or some other combination) of the two or more rebuy costs. Again, to make these determinations, purchasing module  may include a list of purchasing channels and associated rebuy costs. Moreover, purchasing module  may be configured to receive an indication from IH module  as to a quantity of a particular item to be repurchased and\/or the timing of such repurchasing.","Forecasting module  may be configured to determine a demand forecast (D) for one or more of items  recorded in inventory database . In general, forecasting module  may estimate the quantity of a product that is likely to be sold within a specified planning horizon. For example, forecasting module  may employ quantitative methods and\/or historical data to predict future demand for a given item. In some cases, a demand forecast may be represented by a continuous curve. In other cases, a demand forecast may be represented by a discrete function.","Inventory database  may generally be configured to store any kind of data related to items . For example, inventory database  may store records that relate an identifier for a particular item  (e.g., a vendor or merchant's stock keeping unit (SKU) identifier) with an identifier that may be specific to fulfillment center . Inventory database  may also include information regarding the quantity of each item presently in stock, for example. Moreover, for one or more of items , inventory database  may contain an associated expiration date, expiration time, shelf life, or the like.","In some embodiments, inventory database  may include any suitable type of application or data structure that may be configured as a persistent data repository. For example, inventory database  may be configured as a relational database that includes one or more tables of columns and rows and that may be searched or queried according to a query language, such as a version of Structured Query Language (SQL). Alternatively, inventory database  may be configured as a structured data store that includes data records formatted according to a markup language, such as a version of eXtensible Markup Language (XML). In other embodiments, inventory database  may be implemented using one or more arbitrarily or minimally structured data files managed and accessible through any suitable type of application.","Each of modules or elements - may process information that changes over time. For example, a new disposition channel may become available for a given item , or an existing disposition channel may no longer be available for that same item. Also, a disposition value of an item may decrease or increase over time. Similarly, new and existing purchasing channels, as well as corresponding rebuy costs, may be subject to change. Demand forecast may also be a function of the planning horizon and\/or may vary at any given time. Further, the contents of inventory database  may change when units of new or existing items are shipped to or from fulfillment center . Therefore, in some embodiments, the information provided to and\/or generated by each of modules - may be continuously or periodically updated to reflect changes in disposition, repurchasing, forecast, and\/or inventory conditions. In some cases, such updates may be automatically performed. In other cases, some or all of these updates may be implemented by user .","In some embodiments, one or more of IH module , disposition module , purchasing module , forecasting module , and inventory database  may be part of inventory management system , although these modules need not reside within fulfillment center . Moreover, when an enterprise operates two or more fulfillment centers or warehouses, elements - may be common to some (or all) such fulfillment centers. In some embodiments, elements - may reside in a number of different computing systems distributed throughout an enterprise. For example, certain financial data may be stored in an accounting database associated with an accounting department that may be distinct from elements -.","Removing Expiring Items from Inventory","Referring to , a flowchart of a method for removing expiring items from inventory is depicted. In some embodiments, one or more of the operations described with respect to method  may be implemented by IH module  of . In some situations, a particular inventory item  may be selected for analysis by user . In other situations, the inventory item may be automatically selected as part of a periodic or routine inventory analysis. As illustrated, at , method  identifies a breakeven holding time (T) for the selected inventory item .","In one example, the breakeven holding time (T) may be calculated based on Equation (2) described above. For instance, IH module  may receive a message from disposition module  containing an indication of a disposition value (d) for a particular inventory item , and another message from purchasing module  that includes an indication of the rebuy cost (r) for that same item. Meanwhile, IH module  may receive holding cost (h) information from inventory database , for example. Based a least in part on these values, IH module may employ Equation (2) to obtain the breakeven holding time (T) under the expected conditions. In some embodiments, IH module  may be configured to allow the user  to change one or more values provided by other software modules. This feature may, for example, allow user  to simulate varying conditions in anticipation of known or expected changes that may not have yet been updated in its respective module. In another example, the breakeven holding time (T) may be directly provided by user , thus at least partially bypassing the calculation of Equation (2).","In addition to calculating the breakeven holding time (T), method  may also determine a quantity of healthy and\/or unhealthy inventory at  based on Equation (3). For instance, IH module  may receive a demand forecast distribution from forecasting module , and integrate that distribution up to the breakeven holding time (T). As discussed above, the result of this calculation may provide a quantity of healthy inventory items. IH module may also receive a total quantity of inventory items from inventory database , and calculate a first quantity of unhealthy inventory as the difference between the total quantity of items and the result of Equation (3). These quantities may be further adjusted, for example, by taking into account a target inventory level or the like.","At , method  may identify an expiration date, expiration time, or shelf life of the selected item . For example, an expiration date for item  may be obtained from inventory database . Additionally or alternatively, user  may input an expiration date directly into IH module . At , method  may determine whether the expiration time is shorter than the breakeven holding time (T). If it is not, then no further action may be taken with respect to the expiring items. Otherwise, at , method  may identify an additional quantity of unhealthy inventory of item . For example, method  may recalculate Equation (3), but this time substituting the breakeven holding time (T) with the item's expiration date. In some cases, this procedure produces a second quantity of unhealthy inventory items, and the difference between the second and first quantities may provide the additional quantity of unhealthy inventory items that is due to their expiration.","At , method  may cause that the additional quantity of unhealthy inventory items due to expiration be removed from fulfillment center . In an embodiment, IH module  may be configured to generate a report or indication notifying user  of the healthy or unhealthy status of inventory and advising that a particular action (e.g., hold or dispose) be taken. That is, IH module  may advise or indicate that an action such as disposition should be taken, while the actual undertaking of the indicated action is performed at the discretion of another agent or system. In other embodiments, IH module  may be configured to initiate the disposition process (e.g., by messaging disposition module ) if unhealthy inventory exists, for example by contacting a vendor to arrange a return, directing that unhealthy inventory be picked and packaged for return, or other actions suitable to a given disposition channel.","In alternative embodiments, method  may include an optional operation between blocks  and  that determines whether removal of the additional quantity of unhealthy inventory items (due to expiration) would cause inventory levels to drop below the target inventory levels for that item. If so, the target inventory level may provide a cap to the amount of additional inventory items that are actually removed in block . In other embodiments, however, the target inventory level may be applied only to non-expiring units\u2014that is, those units may be sold according to their forecast (at least until the breakeven holding time (T)). In these embodiments, additional quantity of unhealthy inventory items due to expiration may still be removed, even if removal would cause inventory levels to drop below target.","In some embodiments, an inventory removal function may be used to identify a fraction or a portion of the additional quantity of unhealthy items that should be disposed at a given time. For example, rather than identifying the quantity of unhealthy items that is likely to expire and then immediately causing the disposal of all those units, method  may distribute those units in time in a manner that accounts for potential changes in demand forecast, for example. Generally speaking, the inventory removal function may be any suitable function such as, for example, a linear, parabolic, or exponential function, as described in more detail with respect to .","Referring now to , graphs that illustrate the impact of expiration dates in a typical inventory removal scenario are shown according to some embodiments. These graphs may be understood, for example, when examined in conjunction with method  shown in . As illustrated, the top and bottom graphs are aligned with respect to time. The top graph depicts cost as a function of time, and indicates the difference between rebuy cost and disposition value for a particular inventory item as that difference becomes consumed by the holding costs associated with that item. At the breakeven holding time (T) \u2014indicated in the graph as a number of healthy weeks of cover\u2014the difference between rebuy costs and disposition value is the same as the holding costs. Therefore, the breakeven holding time (T) represents the point in time where it may be more economically advantageous for an enterprise to dispose of the items and rebuy them later in order to forego its corresponding holding costs. As previously discussed, this aspect of the top graph corresponds to the calculations related to Equation (2) performed at block  of method .","The bottom graph of  shows a demand forecast for the selected inventory item plotted against a quantity axis. As such, the breakeven holding time (T) identifies the healthy and unhealthy quantities of that item that are in inventory. The first unhealthy inventory quantity is shown as element . As previously discussed, element  corresponds to the calculations related to Equation (3), and also performed at block  of method .","At , an expiration date for the selected item may be identified. In this particular example, the expiration date is expected to take place sooner than the calculated breakeven holding time (T). Accordingly, the expiration date is shown to the left of the breakeven holding time (T) in both the top and bottom graphs. In the bottom graph, it may be noted that the expiration date causes a second quantity of unhealthy inventory to be identified as element . The difference between the second and first portions of unhealthy inventory (i.e., the difference between elements  and ) may be seen as an additional unhealthy inventory that is due to the expiration of the selected item. The additional unhealthy inventory is shown in the bottom graph as element . Moreover, this aspect of the bottom graph corresponds to block  of method .","Turning now to , a graph of functions that may be used in the removal of expiring items from inventory. In some embodiments, linear function  or exponential function  may be used to remove additional unhealthy inventory that is due to an expiration (i.e., element  of ). As illustrated, the graph plots a removal ratio against time, where the removal ratio indicates a fraction of the additional unhealthy inventory  to be removed at a particular time (e.g., a ratio of 1 indicates that the entire additional unhealthy inventory  should be removed at once, and a ratio of 0 indicates that none of additional unhealthy inventory  should be removed). In some cases, functions  and  may indicate the amount of inventory to be removed at the time of execution of method . In other cases, these functions may indicate the amount of inventory to be removed at future point in time (e.g., X units of item  should be removed from inventory within the next Y days).","In certain embodiments, linear function  may cause a fixed amount of additional inventory  to be removed without regard to time. That is, every time that method  is performed, it may apply linear inventory removal function  to indicate that a particular number of units of item  be removed regardless of when the expiration date will actually occur. As such, the linear model may be particularly well suited for situations where the chances of the actual demand increasing prior to the expiration date are relatively low.","In other embodiments, exponential inventory removal function  may allocate varying portions of additional unhealthy inventory  to be removed as a function of time. For instance, exponential function  may determine that the additional quantity of the inventory item be removed according to a removal ratio, and the removal ratio may increase exponentially between a time of purchase of the inventory item and the expiration time. As such, the removal ratio may cause that a smaller portion of the additional quantity of the inventory item  be removed closer to the time of purchase, and that a larger portion of the additional quantity of the inventory item  be removed closer the expiration time. In other words, in contrast with linear function , the exponential function  is stateful with respect to when its calculation happens relatively to an earlier point in time (e.g., purchase order (PO) receipt date, average PO receipt date, etc.) and\/or a later point in time (e.g., inventory age, expiration date, etc.). In some embodiments, the exponential inventory removal function may effectively increase holding costs exponentially up from zero to 100 times the difference between rebuy costs and the disposition value of the item; although other curves may be used in different situations.","As noted above, other inventory removal functions may be similarly implemented (e.g., a parabolic function, a logarithmic function, a custom function, etc.). For example, another linear function  with a fixed angle (other than zero) may have a similar effect as exponential inventory removal function, in that less units are removed closer to a particular point in time and more units are removed closer to the expiration. In this case, the quantities to be removed week after week may increase a constant rate. In some embodiments, the type of inventory removal function may be implemented may corresponding to a particular product, product line, time of the year (e.g., in the case of seasonal products), etc. Additionally or alternatively, user  may be allowed to modify a inventory removal function in other to perform alternative simulations or the like.","An Illustrative Computer System","In some embodiments, some or all of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer-accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include, for example and without limitation, the functions of inventory management system  and\/or IH module , as well as the methods illustrated in  and any suitable variations thereof. Such program instructions may be executed to perform a particular computational function, such as inventory health metric generation and analysis, expiring item removal analysis, purchase offer analysis, purchase and\/or sales management, operating system functionality, applications, and\/or any other suitable functions.","An embodiment of a computer system including computer-accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment, computer system  includes one or more processors  coupled to a system memory  via an input\/output (I\/O) interface . Computer system  further includes a network interface  coupled to I\/O interface . In some embodiments, inventory management system  and\/or IH module  may be implemented using a single instance of computer system , while in other embodiments multiple such systems may be configured to host different portions or thereof. For example, in an embodiment some data sources or services (e.g., purchasing management services) may be implemented via instances of computer system  that are distinct from those instances implementing other data sources or services (e.g., order entry\/fulfillment services).","In various embodiments computer system  may be a uniprocessor system including one processor , or a multiprocessor system including several processors  (e.g., two, four, eight, or another suitable number). Processors  may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example, in various embodiments processors  may be a general-purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures (ISAs), such as the x86, PowerPC\u00ae, SPARC\u00ae, or MIPS ISAs, or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems, each of processors  may commonly, but not necessarily, implement the same ISA.","System memory  may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments, system memory  may be implemented using any suitable memory technology, such as static random access memory (SRAM), synchronous dynamic RAM (SDRAM), nonvolatile\/Flash-type memory, or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment, program instructions and data implementing desired functions, such as those described above, are shown stored within system memory  as code .","In an embodiment, I\/O interface  may be configured to coordinate I\/O traffic between processor , system memory , and any peripheral devices in the device, including network interface  or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments, I\/O interface  may perform any necessary protocol, timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component (e.g., system memory ) into a format suitable for use by another component (e.g., processor ). In some embodiments, I\/O interface  may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses, such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus (USB) standard, for example. In some embodiments, the function of I\/O interface  may be split into two or more separate components, such as a north bridge and a south bridge, for example. Also, in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I\/O interface , such as an interface to system memory , may be incorporated directly into processor .","Network interface  may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system  and other devices attached to a network, such as other computer systems, for example. In various embodiments, network interface  may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks, such as any suitable type of Ethernet network, for example; via telecommunications\/telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks; via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs, or via any other suitable type of network and\/or protocol.","In some embodiments, system memory  may be an embodiment of a computer-accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However, in other embodiments, program instructions and\/or data may be received, sent or stored upon different types of computer-accessible media. Generally speaking, a computer-accessible medium may include tangible storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media, e.g., disk or CD\/DVD-ROM coupled to computer system  via I\/O interface . A computer-accessible medium may also include any volatile or non-volatile media such as RAM (e.g., SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, RDRAM, SRAM, etc.), ROM, etc, that may be included in some embodiments of computer system  as system memory  or another type of memory. Program instructions and data stored via a computer-accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical, electromagnetic, or digital signals, which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and\/or a wireless link, such as may be implemented via network interface .","Additionally, some or all of the methods or techniques described above and illustrated, for example, in  may be implemented as a web service that may be performed on behalf of clients requesting such a service. Generally speaking, providing a function or service as a web service may encompass providing any of a variety of standardized APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate (e.g., to request services and respond to such requests) in an autonomous, web-based and typically platform-independent manner. For example, an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data (e.g., catalog data, inventory data, customer data or other types of data) and\/or certain enterprise functions (e.g., query functions, electronic commerce functions, generic data storage or computational functions, etc.) to external customers (or, in some embodiments, internal clients) via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and\/or functions via the web services interface, even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform (e.g., a different operating system or system architecture) than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions. Similarly, an enterprise may elect to provide clients with access to inventory management analysis services, such as inventory health determination, expiring product analysis, purchase offer analysis, counteroffer analysis or other such services. For example, clients may provide inventory details via a web services interface and request various kinds of analysis through that interface. Alternatively, an enterprise may elect to provide physical management of inventory on behalf of clients, and may analyze client-owned inventory in a manner similar to enterprise-owned inventory, exposing the results of such analysis to clients as a web service.","In some embodiments, provisioning a web service may encompass the use of particular protocols which may be executable (e.g., as part of code ) to publish available web services to potential users, to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly, to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction, and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform-independent manner. Specifically, in an embodiment a provider of a web service may register the service using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration (UDDI) protocol, which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web service provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well-formed web services request from a user should be formatted (e.g., what specific parameters are required or allowed, the data type or format to be used for a given parameter, etc.). For example, such interface details may be published (e.g., within a UDDI directory entry) using a version of the Web Services Description Language (WSDL).","In some embodiments, web services request and response data is exchanged between a client and the service provider through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform-independent structured data, such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language (XML). For example, in an embodiment a web services request to provide inventory health information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest, the type of data requested (e.g., inventory health data), and possibly other fields, in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from the web service provider may include an XML document containing the requested data. In certain embodiments, web services-related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web-based data transfer protocol, such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), for example.","Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common, which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example, in different versions of a free-form XML document specifying a web services request, the actual web service that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions, which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently, in some embodiments, the XML documents containing web services request\/response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework, e.g., a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example, in an embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an \u201cenvelope\u201d (e.g., which may include a specification of the document type, the intended recipient web service, etc.) as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data (e.g., the particular details of the web services request). However, in some embodiments, web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.","Additionally, in some embodiments, a web services system may be implemented without using document-based techniques such as SOAP-type protocols. For example, as an alternative to a document-based approach, a web service may be implemented using a Representational State Transfer (REST)-type architecture. Generally speaking, in REST-type architectures, web services requests may be formed as commands conveyed via a transport protocol, such as PUT or GET commands conveyed via a version of the HTTP protocol. Those parameters of the request that might be embedded within a document in a document-based web services architecture may instead be included as command parameters in a REST-type architecture. Other suitable configurations of web services architectures are possible and contemplated.","Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail, numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
