---
title: Protected mode for mobile communication and other devices
abstract: An electronic device includes at least one memory unit, a plurality of applications residing on at least one of the memory units and a database residing on at least one of the memory units. The database is configured to store a record specifying a subset of the plurality of applications that are to be inaccessible to a user when in a protected mode of operation. The protected mode is designed for a user (e.g., child or friend borrowing the device) who can potentially use the device with setting that are configured under the primary user's (e.g. parent, device administrator) supervision. The device also includes a user interface through which a primary user and not other users can specify the subset of the plurality of applications to be included in the record. A processor is operatively associated with the memory unit, the database and the user interface. The processor is configured to switch, in response to a request from the primary user and not other users, between a normal mode operation in which all of the applications in the plurality of applications are available for use and the protected mode of operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076020&OS=09076020&RS=09076020
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09076020
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110513
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Mobile communication devices are often capable of performing many different functions. For instance, such devices may support any of a variety of applications, such as a telephone application, a video conferencing application, an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a blogging application, a digital camera application, a digital video camera application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and\/or a digital video player application, and so on. A design assumption is that the user can be fully trusted and is given full authority over the device.","However, in many cases, the role of the device user is different from the role of the device owner or responsible party. Often the devices are given by an owner or more generally, any party that is responsible for the given device, to some end user. For instance, a parent may give a mobile communication device to a teenager, and a corporate or government manager may assign a mobile communication device to his or her employee. In one particular example, parents often give over their devices to a child to play a game or other entertaining activity. While using the device, children can easily exit out of a given application and access anything else (i.e. email, file stores, internet, etc.).","Parental controls exist for devices such as televisions and computers. For example, parental-control applications may allow a parent to monitor and control the content a child may access over the Internet. However, traditional parental-control applications may focus on web content (e.g., monitoring and blocking websites) and chat activity (monitoring conversations and blocking buddies). More generally, traditional parental-control applications roughly fall into four categories: content filters, which limit access to age-appropriate content, usage controls, which constrain the usage of these devices such as placing time-limits on usage or forbidding certain types of usage, computer usage management tools, which allow parents to enforce learning time into child computing time, and monitoring, which can track location and activity when using the devices.","In some implementations a computing device may be placed in a protected mode so that only certain features are available to the user. In some cases the features available to the user in the special mode are chosen by a user or owner of the device. Once in the protected mode a user cannot get out of the protected mode unless they are able to disable it using a password or by performing a certain task to switch it over to a normal mode of operation. Even if a user tries to turn off the device it remains in the protected mode. When the user turns the device on again it remains in the protected mode.","In one particular implementation, when the device administrator wants to establish a protected mode for a particular user, the administrator activates the protected mode by entering a passcode or by performing another pre-established task that is to remain unknown to other users. In response, a user interface is presented on the display of the device. The user interface presents a list of applications resident on the device and a series of radio buttons or like which allow the administrator to select the applications or features that can be accessed in the protected mode that is being established. When a user other than the device administrator attempts to access or otherwise use an application or feature that the device administrator has allowed access to while in the protected mode, the application opens and behaves as in the normal mode of operation. In addition, the user will be prevented from accessing other features or applications that have been prohibited by the administrator when establishing the protected mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":"100"},"The device  includes a memory unit  (which may include one or more computer readable storage media), a memory controller , one or more processors (CPU's) , a peripherals interface , RF circuitry , audio circuitry , a speaker , a microphone , an input\/output (I\/O) subsystem , other input or control devices , and an external port . These components may communicate over one or more communication buses or signal lines .","It should be appreciated that the device  is only one example of a mobile communications device  and that the device  may have more or fewer components than shown, may combine two or more components, or a may have a different configuration or arrangement of components. The various components shown in  may be implemented in hardware, software or a combination of both hardware and software, including one or more signal processing and\/or application specific integrated circuits.","Memory unit  may include high-speed random access memory and non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to memory unit  by other components of the device , such as the CPU  and the peripherals interface , may be controlled by the memory controller . The peripherals interface  couples the input and output peripherals of the device to the CPU  and memory unit . The one or more processors  run or execute various software programs and\/or sets of instructions stored in memory unit  to perform various functions for the device  and to process data. In some examples the peripherals interface , the CPU , and the memory controller  may be implemented on a single chip, such as a chip . In other examples they may be implemented on separate chips.","The RF (radio frequency) circuitry  includes a receiver and transmitter (e.g., a transceiver) for respectively receiving and sending RF signals, also called electromagnetic signals. The RF circuitry  converts electrical signals to\/from electromagnetic signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices via the electromagnetic signals. The RF circuitry  may include well-known circuitry for performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver, one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. The RF circuitry  may communicate with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World Wide Web (WWW), an intranet and\/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone network, a wireless local area network (LAN) and\/or a metropolitan area network (MAN), and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication may use any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), wideband code division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11a, IEEE 802.11b, IEEE 802.11g and\/or IEEE 802.11n), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for email, instant messaging, and\/or Short Message Service (SMS)), or any other suitable communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this document.","The audio circuitry , the speaker , and the microphone  provide an audio interface between a user and the device . The audio circuitry  receives audio data from the peripherals interface , converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the electrical signal to the speaker . The speaker  converts the electrical signal to human-audible sound waves. The audio circuitry  also receives electrical signals converted by the microphone  from audible signals (i.e., sound waves). The speaker  and microphone  are two examples of audio transducers that may be employed in the mobile communications device. The audio circuitry  converts the electrical signal to audio data and transmits the audio data to the peripherals interface  for processing. Audio data may be retrieved from and\/or transmitted to memory unit  and\/or the RF circuitry  by the peripherals interface . In some embodiments, the audio circuitry  also includes a headset jack (not shown). The headset jack provides an interface between the audio circuitry  and removable audio input\/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a headset with both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a microphone).","The I\/O subsystem  couples input\/output peripherals on the device , such as the display screen  and other input\/control devices , to the peripherals interface . The I\/O subsystem  may include a display controller  and one or more input controllers  for other input or control devices. The one or more input controllers  receive\/send electrical signals from\/to other input or control devices . The other input\/control devices  may include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some examples input controller(s)  may be coupled to any (or none) of the following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a pointer device such as a mouse.","The display screen  provides an input interface and an output interface between the device and a user. The display controller  receives and\/or sends electrical signals from\/to the display screen . The display screen  displays visual output to the user. The visual output may include graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination thereof (collectively termed \u201cgraphics\u201d).","The display screen  will generally include a suitable display such as an OLED display, PLED display, active matrix liquid crystal display, passive matrix liquid crystal display, electrophoretic display, cholesteric liquid crystal display, polymer dispersed liquid crystal and nematic liquid crystal display. In some implementations the display screen  may be a touch-screen display.","The device  also includes a power system  for powering the various components. The power system  may include a portable power supply (e.g., battery) and components necessary to receive power from an alternating current (AC) source, a power management system, a recharging system, a power failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter and any other components associated with the generation, management and distribution of power in portable devices.","In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory unit  may include an operating system , a communication module (or set of instructions) , a contact\/motion module (or set of instructions) , a graphics module (or set of instructions) , a text input module (or set of instructions) , a Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of instructions) , a sound module  (or set of instructions) and applications (or set of instructions) .","The operating system  (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X, Microsoft WINDOWS\u00ae, Android or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software components and\/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication between various hardware and software components. The communication module  facilitates communication with other devices over one or more external ports  and also includes various software components for handling data received by the RF circuitry  and\/or the external port  (e.g., Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.).","The graphics module  includes various known software components for rendering and displaying graphics on the display screen , including components for changing the intensity of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term \u201cgraphics\u201d includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without limitation text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital images, videos, animations and the like. The text input module , which may be a component of graphics module , provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts , e-mail , IM , blogging , browser , and any other application that needs text input).","The GPS module  determines the location of the device and provides this information for use in various applications (e.g., applications that provide location-based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map\/navigation widgets).","The applications  may include any combination of the following illustrative modules: a contacts module, a telephone module; a video conferencing module; an e-mail client module an instant messaging (IM) module; a blogging module; a camera module; an image management module; a video player module; a music player module; a browser module; a word processing module; a voice recognition module; a calendar module; widget modules, which may include a weather widget, stocks widget, calculator widget, alarm clock widget, dictionary widget, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets.","Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These modules (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory unit  may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory unit  may store additional modules and data structures not described above.","As previously mentioned, a protected mode is a mode that can be activated on a computing device that only allows access to applications, features, or content specified by the device administrator. While in protected mode, specific hardware buttons or on-screen functionality may be disabled or re-mapped to prevent access to features, applications, or content not specified by the device administrator. The administrator can exit from protected mode and restore the device to its normal mode by performing an action that is not easily accomplished or discoverable by other users. For instance, the action may involve entering a password or code, pressing a predetermined sequence of buttons (physical or virtual), performing a special touch gesture, and so on.","By employing the protected mode as described herein, a device administrator is provided with options beyond those available from typical parental controls. Enabling the protected mode on a device that allows the administrator to selectively alter a user's accessibility to software and hardware features effectively creates a secure device that can be given to a user without being concerned that the user can use or otherwise access features specifically designated by the device administrator as being inaccessible to the user. Moreover, if, for instance, the administrator disables the phone or messaging functionality of the device, in some implementations the administrator may also be given the option to allow the device to receive or block incoming calls or messages from being accessed by the user. Accordingly, in one example, the provisioning of a device with a protected mode of operation as described herein provides a worry free and secure means by which a parent can hand a communication device such as a smart phone to a young child so that the child can use it only for entertainment purposes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["202","202","204","204","206","208","206"]},"The user interface  allows a user to select which applications or features are accessible while the device is in the protected mode. The user interface , which is only accessible when the device is not in the protected mode, provides a list or menu of applications or other features from which the device administrator can select or unselect those specific applications or features that are to be accessible in protected mode. Generally, any application or feature installed on the device which is not included in the list or menu cannot be made inaccessible while the device is in the protected mode. In some implementations the user interface may present a default set of applications or features that are to be accessible (or inaccessible) while the device is in the protected mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["206","315","330","320","350","360","370","310","315","330","315","320","320","340","202","315","350","350","310","340","320","360","310","330","370"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","415","420"]},"When the device administrator (e.g., a parent) wants to establish a protected mode for a particular user (e.g., a child) a user interface is presented on the display, as indicated when the device  is in state . In this example while in state  the user interface presents a list of applications resident on the device and a series of radio buttons or like which allow the administrator to select the applications or features that can be accessed in the protected mode that is being established. At step , the administrator activates the protected mode on the device by entering a passcode or by performing another pre-established task that is to remain unknown to the user. In response, the computing device  enters a protected mode state , which for simplicity is depicted in state  of  by the removal of selected icons from the display. The icons  that are removed correspond to the applications or features which the user has indicated as not being accessible to the user while the device was in state . Of course, in practice, the selected icons may or may not be removed from or otherwise altered on the display screen. In some implementations, however, the display may indicate to the user which applications or features are inaccessible. For instance, the selected icons may be grayed-out or otherwise changed in appearance.","When in step  a user other than the device administrator attempts to access or otherwise use an application or feature that the device administrator has allowed access to while in the protected mode, the application opens and behaves as in the normal mode of operation. This state of the device  is represented by state . Likewise, when in step  the user exits the application or feature, the device  remains the protected mode of operation, as indicated once again by state . The device  remains in the protected mode until the device administrator deactivates it in step  after performing the predetermined task (e.g., entering a password) that is required to gain administrative access to the protected mode in step . The device  is shown in state , which shows a user-specifiable field in which a password can be entered to access the protected mode. After deactivating the protected mode the device  returns to state .","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201cengine,\u201d \u201csystem,\u201d \u201capparatus,\u201d \u201cinterface,\u201d or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. For instance, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a computer-readable medium embedded with a computer executable program, which encompasses a computer program accessible from any computer-readable storage device or storage media. For example, computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disk, floppy disk, magnetic strips . . . ), optical disks (e.g., compact disk (CD), digital versatile disk (DVD) . . . ), smart cards, and flash memory devices (e.g., card, stick, key drive . . . ). Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
