---
title: Network information collection and access control system
abstract: An approach is provided for collecting and controlling access to network information. A network information anonymizer receives network information associated with a device, separates the network information into anonymized network information and user identifiable information, and enables access to the anonymized network information independently of the user identifiable information based on a privacy setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08739271&OS=08739271&RS=08739271
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08739271
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. For example, in recent years, wireless networking technologies have offered users the convenience of mobility and ease of connection to a network. In addition, mobile devices have greatly increased with respect to functionality as well as the quantity and quality of information collected. Network information (e.g., location information, radio performance information, network traffic usage, latency, etc.), for instance, can be collected to optimize network performance and\/or improve user experience. However, increased data collection raises privacy concerns, especially from consumers who do not wish to share such data. Accordingly, service providers face significant technical challenges to facilitating collection and access to network information while maintaining user privacy.","An apparatus, method, and system for network information collection and access control are described. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent, however, that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","101","101","103","105","107","109","101","111","103","111","103","101","100","100"],"i":["a","n "]},"In certain embodiments, the network information platform  may include or have access to a permissions database , an anonymized information database , and an identifiable information database . For example, the network information platform  may access the permissions database  to obtain service provider settings, user privacy settings, etc., to determine whether various network information associated with particular users may be shared with third parties and applications. Moreover, the network information platform  may, for instance, access the anonymized information database  and the identifiable information database  to respectively obtain anonymized network information and user identifiable information of associated users.","As discussed, users may benefit from the collecting of network information, for instance, by service providers since such information may be utilized to optimize network performance and\/or to improve user experience. However, traditional means of collecting data have raised potential privacy concerns from consumers. For example, location detection technologies can continuously detect a user's location and transmit the user's identity and location information to third parties. In addition, a user's mobile directory number and contact list containing the mobile directory numbers of a user's contacts may be transmitted to third parties. Moreover, many attempts to limit access often rely merely on the recipient of user information to honor the privacy settings. The inflexibility in privacy settings and lack of a means to ensure privacy often times results in little, or no, collection of network information.","To address this issue, the system  of  introduces the capability to collect and control access to network information. By way of example, the network information platform  may receive network information associated with a device. Upon receipt, the network information platform  may separate the network information into anonymized network information and user identifiable information. The anonymized network information may, for instance, include location history, network usage history, user context information, etc. The user identifiable information may include a username, a Mobile Directory Number (MDN), a Media Access Control (MAC) address, and\/or a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number (MSISDN), a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) serial number, International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI), etc. To vary and control access to these information sets, the network information platform  may, for instance, enable access to the anonymized network information independently of the user identifiable information based on a privacy setting. In this way, the anonymized network information may be used to support any number of applications without exposing potentially sensitive user identifiable information (e.g., mobile device numbers, network addresses, location information, etc.) that are typically collected with unanonymized network information. By way of example, these applications may (1) provide maps or views (e.g., augmented reality views, virtual reality views, etc.) that represent network information in the user's environment, (2) share network information for social interaction and collective intelligence, (3) optimize network performance, and\/or (4) obfuscate and present network resource information based on access rights.","It is noted that the mobile devices  may be any type of mobile terminal including a mobile handset, mobile station, mobile unit, multimedia computer, multimedia tablet, communicator, netbook, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), smartphone, sensor, media receiver, etc. It is also contemplated that the mobile devices  may support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition, mobile devices  may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information, including touch screen capability, keyboard and keypad data entry, voice-based input mechanisms, accelerometer (e.g., shaking the mobile device ), haptics, and the like. Any known and future implementations of mobile devices  are applicable. It is noted that, in certain embodiments, the mobile devices  may be configured to establish peer-to-peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies\u2014i.e., near field communication (NFC), Bluetooth, infrared, etc. Also, connectivity may be provided via a wireless local area network (LAN). By way of example, a group of mobile devices  may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example, the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCP) to dynamically assign \u201cprivate\u201d DHCP internet protocol (IP) addresses to each mobile device , i.e., IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network  as facilitated via a router.","In some embodiments, the network information platform  may generate a correlation key associated with the anonymized network information and the user identifiable information. In one scenario, the correlation key may be generated to help facilitate the separate or independent treatment of anonymized network information (e.g., location, radio network environment, etc.) and user identifiable information (e.g., mobile directory number, media access control number, etc.). As an example, a request for the anonymized network information may be permitted without the correlation key, while a request for the user identifiable information may be denied if the request does not include the correlation key. As such, access to the two information sets may be based, for instance, on the user's privacy and permissions settings, service provider settings, etc. In this way, the anonymized network information can be accessed independently of the user identifiable information.","In certain embodiments, the network information platform  may receive the correlation key from a requester. The network information platform  may then enable access by the requester to the user identifiable information associated with the correlation key. In one scenario, the correlation key may only be provided to those services, applications, requesters, etc., that have access rights to the user identifiable information. For example, the correlation key may be used to enable emergency event network optimization. Emergency event network optimization may include, for instance, quality of service (QoS) treatment for emergency responders, and source identification of emergency communications (e.g., mobile directory number of an emergency call).","In various embodiments, the network information platform  may encrypt user identifiable information. Additionally, or alternatively, network information platform  may transmit the network information such that the user identifiable information and the anonymized network information are separately received. That is, the network information platform  may send the anonymized network information at a different time, or a different channel, than the associated user identifiable information. In one embodiment, the network information platform  limits access to the user identifiable information associated with the correlation key by use of authentication. For instance, a username and password, procedure may be employed to obtain information associated with the correlation key.","In other embodiments, the network information platform  may anonymized all of the network information. As such, access to the network information, the anonymized network information, and\/or the user identifiable information may be enabled to improve a user experience associated with the device. Moreover, access by one or more third parties to the network information, the anonymized network information, and\/or the user identifiable information may be enabled. In one scenario, anonymously shared user history (e.g., location, network usage, etc.) and user context information (e.g., calendar, network preferences, etc.) may be utilized to facilitate the improvement of network coverage (e.g., increase capacity at a location). In another scenario, the information may, for instance, be utilized to facilitate monitoring and reporting of issues, to reduce network congestion (e.g., capacity planning and network resource optimization using data relating to capacity, signal strength, etc.), to leverage network operation information (e.g., cell site availability, cell site signal strength, radio antenna configuration, backhaul network availability capacity, cell site location, network maintenance, etc.) to plan maintenance or cell site locations, etc.","In particular embodiments, the network information platform  may process the anonymized network information to determine a radio antenna configuration, and\/or a handoff configuration for facilitating communications associated with the devices. In one scenario, user-provided anonymized network information may be utilized to facilitate improvements, such as optimizing radio antenna configurations, predicting locomotion for anticipating handoffs, etc. These improvements may enable the user to receive greater signal strength, seamless roaming, and improved handoffs.","In certain embodiments, the network information platform  may receive a query for the network information. Based on the query, the network information platform  may generate a response to the query using the anonymized network information. In further embodiments, the network information platform  may render a user interface for presenting the response to the query. The user interface may, for instance, be an augmented reality display, a virtual reality display, a mapping display, and\/or a signal strength display. By way of example, a user may utilize the mobile device  to query for certain network information, such as network coverage areas, the signal strength of particular areas, the type of network in various areas, etc. In response, the network information platform  may initiate a presentation, on an augmented reality display of the mobile device , of the network coverage areas along with the signal strength and the types of networks associated with particular portions of the network coverage areas.","In some embodiments, the network information platform  may use the anonymized network information to obfuscate contextual information associated with a network resource. The contextual information may, for instance, include at least a location (e.g., physical location) of the network source. In one scenario, the location information associated with the network resource may be obfuscated for some users, while privileged users (e.g., network operators and support personnel) may be provided with accurate network resource locations. Obfuscated location information may, for instance, still be beneficial to users since it may still provide indications for better service (e.g., indications to move closer to a particular area for better reception). Nonetheless, the obfuscation enables certain contextual information associated with a network resource to be protected.","As illustrated in , service provider network  enables mobile devices  to access the features and functionality of network information platform  via one or more of networks -. Networks - may be any suitable wireline and\/or wireless network. For example, telephony network  may include a circuit-switched network, such as the public switched telephone network (PSTN), an integrated services digital network (ISDN), a private branch exchange (PBX), or other like network. Wireless network  may employ various technologies including, for example, code division multiple access (CDMA), Long Term Evolution (LTE), enhanced data rates for global evolution (EDGE), general packet radio service (GPRS), mobile ad hoc network (MANET), global system for mobile communications (GSM), Internet protocol multimedia subsystem (IMS), universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS), etc., as well as any other suitable wireless medium, e.g., microwave access (WiMAX), wireless fidelity (WiFi), satellite, and the like. Meanwhile, data network  may be any local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), the Internet, or any other suitable packet-switched network, such as a commercially owned, proprietary packet-switched network, such as a proprietary cable or fiber-optic network.","Although depicted as separate entities, networks - may be completely or partially contained within one another, or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance, service provider network  may embody circuit-switched and\/or packet-switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit-switched and\/or packet-based communications. It is further contemplated that networks - may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and\/or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner, networks - may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 (SS7) network, or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. As such, the conjunction of networks - may be adapted to facilitate network information collection and access control.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 10"],"b":["103","100","103","201","203","205","207","209","211","103","103","103","101"]},"The transaction module  may be utilized to send and receive information to and from the mobile devices , network elements including home location register (HLR), authentication, authorizing and accounting (AAA) system, home subscriber server (HSS), packet gateway, deep packet inspection systems, and the like. For example, in one embodiment, the transaction module  may receive user identifiable information, anonymized network information, and privacy and permissions settings from mobile device , the service provider network , network elements, or another device connected to the one or more networks -. Additionally, the transaction module  may send anonymized network information as directed by the permissions module . In another embodiment, the transaction module  receives authentication information and a correlation key, and sends the user identifiable information associated with the correlation key. The communication method may be, for instance, over the one or more networks - and may use a variety of communication methods in a single transaction, including code division multiple access (CDMA), wireless fidelity (WiFi), short message service (SMS), multimedia messaging service (MMS), etc. In addition or alternatively, a mobile web portal may be used for setting privacy and permissions, collecting data, and obtaining user identifiable information, for instance, for emergency event network optimization.","According to exemplary embodiments, the collector module  may process anonymized information stored in the anonymized information database  to enhance the functionality of the mobile device . Moreover, the separation module  may be utilized to separate network information into user identifiable information and anonymized network information. For example, a mobile device , and network elements including HLR, AAA system, HSS, packet gateway, deep packet inspection systems and the like, may transmit to the network information platform  a combination of user identifiable information (e.g., mobile directory number) and network information (e.g., signal strength). In such a case, the separation module  may create two sets of data: one set for user identifiable information and one set for anonymized network information. The user identifiable information may, for instance, be stored in the identifiable information database , and the anonymized network information may be stored in the anonymized information database .","The separation module  may also include a detection means for determining whether a particular type of information (e.g., mobile directory number) is user identifiable or anonymized network information. In one embodiment, the detection means is achieved by service provider settings and\/or user privacy and permissions settings stored in the permissions database . It is contemplated that privacy and permissions settings may be stored in various locations, for example, the service provider network . In another embodiment, the detection means may be achieved using markers or semantic tags for each information type.","The key module  may be utilized to generate a key to associated user identifiable information stored in the identifiable information database  with anonymized network information stored in the anonymized information database . In one embodiment, the network information platform  receives user identifiable information and anonymized network information, appends the correlation key to each set of information, and respectively stores the information sets in the identifiable information database  and the anonymized information database . In another embodiment, the key module  stores the user identifiable information in the identifiable information database  and anonymized network information in the anonymized information database  and appends the correlation key to each set of information when the information is requested. It is contemplated that the correlation key may be any sequence of information, for example, numeric, alpha-numeric, etc. The key module  may use various schemes to generate the correlation key, for example, a random number table, a true random number generator, pseudo-random number algorithm such as the linear congruential generator, or a number based on probability density functions. Additionally, the key module  may be enabled to prevent duplicate correlation key values by, for example, use of a central random number table, or use of a unique global identifier.","Moreover, the permissions module  may be used to retain each user's privacy and permissions preference. For example, a user may prefer not to share any information even when such information is anonymized. It is contemplated that multiple privacy and permissions may be available to users. In a first embodiment, for example, a user privacy and permissions preference of anonymizing all network information enables the network information platform  to restrict use of information collected on the user's mobile device  or collected from network elements, and to ensure that all network information is anonymized. In a second embodiment, for example, a user privacy and permissions preference enabling access to the network information, the anonymized network information, the user identifiable information, or a combination thereof is used to improve a user experience associated with the mobile device . In a third embodiment, for example, a user privacy and permissions preference may enable access to the network information, the anonymized network information, the user identifiable information, or a combination thereof to one or more third parties. Additionally, the privacy and permissions preference of each user may be stored and retrieved from a permissions database .","Furthermore, the access manager  may control access to anonymized network information received from mobile devices . In one embodiment, the access manager  may use the permissions database  to determine the privacy setting of the network information requested. User privacy settings may allow access to some network information (e.g., user's location), but not other information (e.g., user's calendar). The determination of privacy setting of network information may be enabled, for example, by appending the privacy setting to the anonymized network information stored in the anonymized information database . Alternatively, the anonymized network information stored in the anonymized information database  may be categorized by privacy setting. Additionally, or alternatively, a log may be configured to contain only information allowed by user privacy settings, such that a requester having access to some information in a particular log has access to all information stored in the particular log.","In another embodiment, the access manager  may be configured to enable emergency event network optimization. For example, in one embodiment the access manager  receives authentication information from a requester, and determines whether the requester is authorized to receive user identifiable information. The determination that a request is authorized enables emergency event network optimization that may include, for example, quality of service (QoS) treatment for emergency responders, and source identification of emergency communications (e.g., mobile directory number of a 911 call, location). It is contemplated that authenticating information may include, for example, a username and password procedure, a code (e.g., personal identification number (PIN), etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, authenticating information may be encrypted, either symmetrically or asymmetrically, such that a hash value can be utilized to authenticate received control signals. As such, communications between a requester and network information platform  may include various identifiers, keys, random numbers, random handshakes, digital signatures, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["301","303","117","301","305","307","309","311","313"]},"The user identifiable information may be determined by, for example, the network information platform . By way of example, the user name  may be information that directly identifies the user of a mobile device. The collection of user name  may raise privacy concerns because it may be used to facilitate the collecting of information on an individual. The mobile directory number  may be a unique identifier used to initiate a call with the mobile device  associated with the dialed mobile directory number . The collection of mobile directory number  may raise privacy concerns because it may be used to generate and\/or update a call list, for example, to facilitate sales calls. The MSISDN  may be a number uniquely identifying a subscription in a mobile network. The collection of MSISDN  may raise privacy concerns because it may be used to facilitate location tracking of the device user. The MAC address  may be a unique identifier assigned to a network interface for communications. The collection of MAC address  may raise privacy concerns because it may be used to facilitate location tracking of the device user.","Likewise, the anonymized information database  may contain information shown in table , for example user history , user context data , user device preferences , remaining service , a correlation key , and the like. The user history  may include, for example, location, and network usage history. The collection of user history  may be used to improve user experience without exposing personal information by collecting only information relating to data use. For example, the information collected may relate only to an anonymous device with a network usage history of low data use connected to a specific access point. This information may be used in capacity planning and network resource optimization. The user context data  may include, for example, a user's calendar, a user's presence state, and a user's network preferences (e.g., WiFi vs. private network access). The collection of user context data  may be used to improve user experience without exposing personal information by collecting only information relating to data use. For example, the information collected may relate only to an anonymous device that typically accesses the network with private network access from 8 A.M. to 7 P.M., Monday through Friday. This information may be used in capacity planning and network resource optimization. The user device preferences  may include, for example, a user's preferred type of connection (e.g., 4G, 3G, or 2G). The collection of user device preferences  may be used to improve user experience without exposing personal information by collecting only information relating to data use. This information may be used in capacity planning and network resource optimization. The remaining service  may include, for example, the remaining minutes of use, and the remaining amount of data use. The collection of remaining service  may be used to improve user experience without exposing personal information by collecting only information relating to data use. This information may be used in capacity planning and network resource optimization.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 10"],"b":["400","101","100","400","401","403","405","407","400"]},"According to exemplary embodiments, user interface  may include one or more displays , keypads , microphones , and\/or speakers . Display  provides a graphical user interface (GUI) that permits a user of mobile device  to view dialed digits, call status, menu options, and other service information. Specifically, the display  may allow viewing of, for example, privacy settings (e.g. anonymize all my network information). The GUI may include icons and menus, as well as other text and symbols. Keypad  includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls, such as one or more button controls, dials, joysticks, touch panels, etc. The user thus can construct user profiles, enter commands, initialize applications, input remote addresses, select options from menu systems, and the like. Specifically, the keypad  may enable the inputting of privacy settings (e.g. anonymize all my network information). Microphone  coverts spoken utterances of a user (or other auditory sounds, e.g., environmental sounds) into electronic audio signals, whereas speaker  converts audio signals into audible sounds. Similar to the displays , the speaker  may enable the mobile device  to alert the user of privacy settings (e.g. anonymize all my network information). Likewise, the microphone  may allow inputting privacy settings (e.g. anonymize all my network information).","A camera  may be used as an input device to, for example, collect data that is overlaid on a map. Additionally, or alternatively the camera  may be used to generate an augmented reality that may viewed on display . The augmented reality may be facilitated by the use of additional hardware such as micro electro-mechanical (MEMS) sensors such as accelerometers, solid state compasses, network-based image recognition and augmentation, etc.","Communications circuitry  may include audio processing circuitry , controller , location module  (such as a GPS receiver) coupled to antenna , memory , messaging module , transceiver  coupled to antenna , and wireless controller  coupled to antenna . Memory  may represent a hierarchy of memory, which may include both random access memory (RAM) and read-only memory (ROM). Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non-volatile memory, such as erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and\/or flash memory. Memory  may be implemented as one or more discrete devices, stacked devices, or integrated with controller . Memory  may store information, such as one or more user profiles, one or more user defined policies, one or more contact lists, personal information, sensitive information, work related information, etc. As previously noted, it is contemplated, that functions performed by the network information platform  may be performed by the mobile device . For example, the separation of user identifiable and network information may be performed by the mobile device , by separately storing user identifiable information from network information. Additionally, user privacy settings may be stored in memory .","Additionally, it is contemplated that mobile device  may also include one or more applications and, thereby, may store (via memory ) data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions, business functions, calendar functions, communication functions, contact managing functions, data editing (e.g., database, word processing, spreadsheets, etc.) functions, financial functions, gaming functions, imaging functions, messaging (e.g., electronic mail, IM, MMS, SMS, etc.) functions, multimedia functions, service functions, storage functions, synchronization functions, task managing functions, querying functions, and the like. As such, signals received by mobile device  from, for example, network information platform  may be utilized by API(s)  and\/or controller  to facilitate the sharing of information, and improving the user experience.","Accordingly, controller  controls the operation of mobile device , such as in response to commands received from API(s)  and\/or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers  may include, for example, both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller  may interface with audio processing circuitry , which provides basic analog output signals to speaker  and receives analog audio inputs from microphone .","It is noted that real time spatial positioning information may be obtained or determined via location module  using, for instance, satellite positioning system technology, such as global positioning system (GPS) technology. In this way, location module  can behave as (or substantially similar to) a GPS receiver. Thus, mobile device  employs location module  to communicate with constellation of satellites. The location module  may facilitate the collection of network information, by allowing the mobile device  to detect the device location to associate with other network information detected by the mobile device  such as, for example, signal strength, capacity, latency, and data rate. These satellites transmit very low power interference and jamming resistant signals received by GPS receivers in the location module  via, for example, antennas . At any point on Earth, GPS receiver in location module  can receive signals from multiple satellites, such as six to eleven. Specifically, GPS receiver in location module  may determine three-dimensional geolocation (or spatial positioning information) from signals obtained from at least four satellites. Measurements from strategically positioned satellite tracking and monitoring stations are incorporated into orbital models for each satellite to compute precise orbital or clock data.","Accordingly, GPS signals may be transmitted over two spread spectrum microwave carrier signals that can be shared by GPS satellites. Thus, if mobile device  is able to identify signals from at least four satellites, the location module  may decode the ephemeris and clock data, determine the pseudo range for each satellite and, thereby, compute the spatial positioning of a receiving antenna . With GPS technology, mobile device  can determine its spatial position with great accuracy and convenience. It is contemplated, however, that location module  may utilize one or more other location determination technologies, such as advanced forward link triangulation (AFLT), angle of arrival (AOA), assisted GPS (A-GPS), cell identification (cell ID), observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA), enhanced observed time of difference (E-OTD), enhanced forward link trilateration (EFLT), network multipath analysis, and the like. As such, a location module  can be utilized to determine the mobile device  location to facilitate enhancing the user's experience, for example, in determining position for augmented reality, optimizing radio antenna configurations, and predicting locomotion for anticipating handoffs.","Mobile device  also includes messaging module  that is configured to receive, transmit, and\/or process messages (e.g., enhanced messaging service (EMS) messages, SMS messages, MMS messages, instant messaging (IM) messages, electronic mail messages, and\/or any other suitable message) received from (or transmitted to) network information platform  or any other suitable component or facility of system . As such, messaging module  may be configured to receive, transmit, and\/or process information shared by the mobile device . For example, network information platform  can send an SMS \u201cask\u201d to a user to request access by an application to user network information.","It is also noted that mobile device  can be equipped with wireless controller  to communicate with a wireless headset (not shown) or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller ; for example, the headset can be Bluetooth enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device  has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of , it is contemplated that mobile device  may embody many forms and include multiple and\/or alternative components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 5A"],"b":["101","103"]},"At step , the network information platform  receives network information associated with a device, for instance, from a mobile device  to be shared. The network information platform  then, at step , separates the network information into anonymized network information and user identifiable information. As discussed, the anonymized network information may be stored in the anonymized information database  and the user identifiable information may be stored in the identifiable information database  for future access. Accordingly, at step , the network information platform  enables access to the anonymized network information independently of the user identifiable information based on a privacy setting.","By way of example, privacy settings may be maintained by associating the network information with particular privacy settings. The privacy settings (e.g., anonymize all my network information) may, for instance, be appended to the network information. Additionally, or alternatively, the privacy settings may be stored in respective logs. In one scenario, one or more logs may store only information related to a first privacy setting (e.g., anonymize all my network information), and a different set of one or more logs may store only information related to a second privacy setting (e.g., enabling access to the network information, the anonymized network information, the user identifiable information, or a combination to thereof to improve a user experience associated with the device). Moreover, in certain embodiments, privacy settings may enable access to network information, the anonymized network information, and\/or the user identifiable information based on groups or categories of requesters (e.g., third party, service provider, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 5B"],"b":["101","103"]},"At step , the network information platform  receives authentication information and a correlation key, for instance, from a requester (e.g., associated with the mobile device ). It is contemplated that the authentication information and correlation key may, for instance, be entered via a web portal by a user. Additionally, or alternatively, the authentication information and the correlation key may be entered into and sent using a mobile device . Additionally, or alternatively, the authentication information and the correlation key may be requested by a service or application by communicating with the network information platform . By way of example, the correlation key may enable the use of emergency event network optimization. Emergency event network optimization may include, for example, quality of service (QoS) treatment for emergency responders, and source identification of emergency communications (e.g., mobile directory number of an emergency call).","Once the network information platform  receives the authentication information and the correlation key, it may, as in step , verify the authentication information. In one scenario, the network information platform  reads an authentication information log containing authentication information and compares the authentication information in the log to the authentication information received.","At step , the network information may then enable access to user identifiable information associated with the received correlation key. For example, the network information platform  may locate the user identifiable information in the identifiable information database  using the received correlation key (e.g., by locating a matching correlation key in the identifiable information database ). The user identifiable information may then be sent to the sender of the authentication information and the correlation key (e.g., the requester). As mentioned, the correlation keys may, for instance, be amended to individual network information sets (e.g., anonymized network information, user identifiable information, etc.) stored in respective databases (e.g., the anonymized information database , the identifiable information database , etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, the correlation keys associated with the respective network information sets may be stored in a separate database (e.g., the permissions database ) and amended to the network information sets when requested.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6C","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C"],"sub":["0","1","2"],"b":["101","101","101","101"]},"The network information platform  enables anonymized network information to be collected and facilitates the use of augmented reality. In one embodiment, the network information platform  may collect network information from the mobile devices , and make anonymized network information available. Additionally, the network information platform  may be accessed by the mobile devices  or a server hosting an augmented reality network information service in service provider network  to enable the mobile devices  access to anonymized network information such as, for example, access point type (e.g., mobile broadband 3G, 4G, WiFi), signal strength, data rate, latency, price, and available capacity which can be overlaid on a map. It is noted that pricing may be dynamically adjusted to reflect market changes, such as capacity, time of day, etc.","As illustrated in , an exemplary use of augmented reality  includes a detectable image  such as a city skyline and a mobile device  (e.g., mobile device ) shown at time t, wherein the mobile device  overlays selectable options on a video stream on the mobile device . The mobile device  contains a touch sensitive display  that can detect a user input and display selectable options ,  and . In an exemplary embodiment, selectable option  displays \u201cShow All Wireless,\u201d selectable option  displays \u201cShow Mobile Broadband,\u201d and selectable option  displays \u201cShow WiFi.\u201d The touch sensitive display  may detect the selection of one of the options ,  and  and cause the screen to display the requested information on the touch sensitive display . It is contemplated that the options displayed may be varied. Additionally, the detectable image  may be displayed as a static image captured by mobile device , or the detectable image  may be detected and displayed in real-time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","sub":["1","0 "],"b":["603","603","607","605","613","615","603","605","613","615","613","605","613","615"]},"As illustrated in , motion sensors built-in mobile device  may detect the shifting from a horizontal position to a vertical position, and at time t, causes the touch sensitive display  to display alternate information, such as a map  representing the geographical area previously displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","701","703","705","707","709","711","707","709","711"]},"The network information platform  enables a mobile device (e.g., mobile device ) to facilitate the collection of anonymized network information by initiating the input of network information. For example, if the touch sensitive display  detects selection of selectable option , it may allow the user to verify or update the accuracy of the detected location . Additionally or alternatively, the touch sensitive display  may detect a selection of selectable option  indicating the user granting permission to send anonymized network information using the network information platform . In another example, the touch sensitive display  detects a selection of selectable option  to enable the user to input comments on service. It is contemplated, that comments on service may be collected by various means, for example, an unrestricted text file, multi-selectable list boxes, or a combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"],"sub":["0 ","1 "]},"As illustrated in , an exemplary use of anonymized network information  includes an antenna  that transmits a signal with a signal strength  in the shape of a lobe with a lobe axis  shown at time t, wherein the lobe axis  is moved along a direction of rotation  to enable improvement of the user experience at target  (e.g., mobile device ). By way of example, the collection of network information may facilitate the identification of the target . The target location may, for instance, represent a larger number of mobile devices , as compared with other targets, within the range of the lobe axis .","As illustrated in , an exemplary use of anonymized network information  includes an antenna  that transmits the signal with the signal strength  in the shape of a lobe with a lobe axis  shown at time t, wherein the lobe axis  is located to enable an improved user experience at the target . In this case, the collection of network information have facilitated the directing of an antenna beam to provide for an improved user experience at target  (e.g., by providing a stronger signal to the target ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["101","101","101"]},"As illustrated in , area  includes a mobile device  (e.g., mobile device ) with a touch sensitive display  that can detect a user input such as a destination point and displays an anticipated locomotion . The touch sensitive display  may display a location  of the mobile device . The network information platform  may collect anonymized network information relating to, for example, the anticipated locomotion  of the mobile device .","As illustrated in , area  includes the detected location , the anticipated locomotion , and radio network transmitters and . Additionally, area  includes a radio network transmitter range of radio network transmitter and a radio network transmitter range of radio network transmitter . The network information platform  enables access to the anticipated locomotion  of the mobile device , and facilitates the selection of a radio network transmitter  that provides improved seamless roaming and handoffs. For example, the selection of connecting to radio network transmitter may become disrupted because the anticipated locomotion  of the mobile device  moves the mobile device  outside of the radio network transmitter range of radio network transmitter . Moreover, since the radio transmitter range of radio network transmitter encompasses a larger portion of the anticipated locomotion  of the mobile device , as compared with the radio transmitter range of the radio network transmitter , the radio network transmitter may offer improved seamless roaming and handoffs. That is, the network information platform  enables the mobile device  to be connected to the radio network transmitter  (e.g., the radio network transmitter ) which will offer better seamless roaming and handoffs for the anticipated locomotion .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1001","1003","1001","1000","1005","1001","1003","1005","1003","1000","1007","1001","1003","1009","1001"]},"The computer system  may be coupled via the bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display, active matrix display, or plasma display, for displaying information to a computer user. Additional output mechanisms may include haptics, audio, video, etc. An input device , such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, touch screen, or cursor direction keys, for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor  and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .","According to an embodiment of the invention, the processes described herein are performed by the computer system , in response to the processor  executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory  causes the processor  to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  connected to a local network . For example, the communication interface  may be a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or modem, an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, a cable modem, a telephone modem, or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card (e.g. for Ethernet\u2122 or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) network) to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further, the communication interface  can include peripheral interface devices, such as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, a PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) interface, etc. Although a single communication interface  is depicted in , multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.","The network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, the network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer , which has connectivity to a network  (e.g. a wide area network (WAN) or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d) or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network  and the network  both use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link  and through the communication interface , which communicate digital data with the computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.","The computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), the network link , and the communication interface . In the Internet example, a server (not shown) might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network , the local network  and the communication interface . The processor  may execute the transmitted code while being received and\/or store the code in the storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, the computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to computer-readable storage medium ((or non-transitory)\u2014i.e., non-volatile media and volatile media), and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic, optical, or electromagnetic waves, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer-readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example, the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario, the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA) or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory, from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1100","1100","1100","1100","1100"]},"In one embodiment, the chip set or chip  includes a communication mechanism such as a bus  for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor  has connectivity to the bus  to execute instructions and process information stored in, for example, a memory . The processor  may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi-core processor include two, four, eight, or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition, the processor  may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus  to enable independent execution of instructions, pipelining, and multithreading. The processor  may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors (DSP) , or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) . A DSP  typically is configured to process real-world signals (e.g., sound) in real time independently of the processor . Similarly, an ASIC  can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. For example, a graphics processing unit (GPU) may be included to facilitate the rendering of augmented reality. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) (not shown), one or more controllers (not shown), or one or more other special-purpose computer chips.","In one embodiment, the chip set or chip  includes merely one or more processors and some software and\/or firmware supporting and\/or relating to and\/or for the one or more processors.","The processor  and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory  via the bus . The memory  includes both dynamic memory (e.g., RAM, magnetic disk, writable optical disk, etc.) and static memory (e.g., ROM, CD-ROM, etc.) for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable network information collection and access control. The memory  also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.","While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein, other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly, the invention is not limited to such embodiments, but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
