---
title: Method and apparatus for M2M device subscription
abstract: An apparatus may include a processor circuit and a machine type communication (MTC) device setup module operable on the processor circuit to determine when the apparatus is provisioned with a subscription to a local network, and to provide a device setup interface to automatically connect the apparatus to a machine type communication (MTC) subscriber independently of an operator of the local network. Other embodiments are disclosed and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491673&OS=09491673&RS=09491673
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09491673
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111221
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61\/514,010 Aug. 1, 2011 and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","Machine to Machine (M2M) communications, also termed \u201cmachine type communications\u201d (MTC), is emerging as a dynamic technology, which enables the \u201cInternet of things\u201d that can exchange information without human interaction. In some cases MTC communication entails wireless information exchange between a subscriber station (MTC device) and a server in the core network of an operator, with the aid of a base station in the radio access network of the operator. Another example involves the wireless exchange of information between two different subscriber stations linked to a base station. In each of these MTC communications, no human interaction need take place.","MTC devices also typically differ from traditional mobile station (MS) (also termed User Equipment (UE) devices) that require human-to-human communication in that groups of MTC devices may have a larger geographic spread of devices that are attached to a single subscription. In one example, smart metering devices attached to a utility company that constitutes an MTC Subscriber can be operationally dispersed nationwide or even internationally. This geographical dispersion differs from conventional arrangements for human-operated devices in which multiple UEs associated with a mobile subscriber may be operational proximate a subscriber's location, which may be geographically limited. Hence operational locations of MTC devices may be independent of the MTC subscriber location, which is generally very different from UEs, which typically operate in the same area as a given subscriber.","The need for MTC devices to potentially operate at locations remote to a geographic location of the MTC subscriber places special requirements on the network architecture for deploying MTC devices. For example, an MTC device that is not deployed proximate the location of the MTC subscriber for the MTC device may require a different home public land mobile network (HPLMN) than the HPLMN associated with the MTC subscriber. Providing roaming operation for MTC devices is one method to address this requirement. The MTC subscriber thus may have to ensure that a roaming arrangement is available at the location in which a given (remote) MTC device is to operate. Given a large number of MTC devices that the MTC subscriber may employ, and a large number of different geographically dispersed locations in which the MTC devices may operate, an MTC subscriber may need to establish a large number of roaming arrangements before the time of deployment of the MTC devices at the different locations. Moreover, since the roaming arrangements are based on traffic commitment, the establishing and maintaining of such multiple MTC roaming agreements may be exceedingly complex.","It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present improvements have been needed.","Various embodiments are related to improving machine to machine (M2M) communications in a wireless network. In various embodiments, the M2M may communications may be carried by an operator that manages a radio access network and core network to transmit data from an M2M device. Some embodiments of a communications system may be implemented with a radio technology such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 (WiMAX), IEEE 802-20, evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), etc. IEEE 802.16m and 802.16p are an evolution of IEEE 802.16e, and provide backward compatibility with an IEEE 802.16-based system. The UTRA is a part of a universal mobile telecommunication system (UMTS). 3rd generation partnership project (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE) is a part of an evolved UMTS (E-UMTS) using the E-UTRA. LTE-advance (LTE-A) is an evolution of the 3GPP LTE.","Various embodiments are related to provisioning mobile devices, such as MTC devices with subscriptions in locations remote to a subscriber. In many scenarios, a subscriber may wish to deploy MTC devices in multiple locations that are each serviced by a different HPLMN. It may therefore be desirable for MTC devices to be distributed from a point of manufacture or storage without a subscription, since the home location of a subscriber's server and HPLMN may not correspond to the HPLMN where the subscriber's MTC devices are to be deployed. Because scalability of operations may best be served if the MTC subscriber can obtain a subscription local to the operational location of its MTC devices, the subscriber may therefore benefit if an MTC device can be provisioned with a local subscription after the location of operation for the MTC device is determined, which may in general not be known.","To clarify the operation of embodiments for provisioning MTC devices,  depicts a potential subscription arrangement  for UEs. The arrangement  illustrates a case in which a user  may have a subscription with a Home Public Land Mobile Network (HPLMN) , and in which roaming association may be provided for multiple UEs -that are associated with respective Visitor Public Land Mobile Network (VPLMNs) -. This arrangement may be difficult to sustain for a large number of UEs that are all potentially connected over a roaming association with the HPLMN . In order for such a scheme to work for a multitude of geographically dispersed UEs, the subscriber HPLMN may need to support roaming arrangements with all the different regions in which the UEs might be deployed that are economically viable to the subscriber. Another consideration for the use of arrangement  is that the roaming agreements need to be sustainable over time and be able to scale as a business of the subscriber grows.","In the sphere of MTC devices, the role of the user and the subscriber is separated to allow for scalability of a business model that supports a large number of geographically dispersed and remote devices. Accordingly, present day standards have been developed to distinguish the different entities involved in managing MTC devices. The 3GPP standard (see 3GPP Technical Specification TS 22.368 V11.3.0, \u00a73.1; 3Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service requirements for Machine-Type Communications (MTC); September 2011) defines the following entities: MTC Server\u2014An entity that communicates to an MTC device through the PLMN; MTC User\u2014One that uses the services of the MTC Server; and MTC Subscriber\u2014The entity having contractual relationship with a Network (NW) operator to provide service to one-to-many MTC devices. Thus, the MTC User can be the MTC Subscriber if the MTC User has a contractual relationship with the Network Operator. In the discussion to follow, the terms \u201cMTC subscriber\u201d and \u201cMTC user\u201d are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted.","At present, however, no technical architecture exists that defines the subscription of the MTC devices to the network. In particular, there is no scheme that defines if a subscription is to be local to each HPLMN through which the device attaches to the network or remote through the VPLMN that the device would attach from. Additionally, unlike the case for UEs, the point of activation of MTC devices may not generally be known at the time of shipment. In an ideal case MTC devices could be dispatched directly from a local warehouse to the operational site. However, in practice, MTC devices may be shipped to any geographic location including those that may be remote from their point of origin. It is therefore difficult to pre-provision such devices with a subscription to a local HPLMN whose identity may not have been determined at the time the devices are manufactured and deployed to a location for shipment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","204","202","202","202","204","204"],"i":["a","n","a","n. "]},"The MTC subscriber  may deploy multiple sets of MTC devices  in different geographic regions, which may include smart meters to measure and manage local use of utility services, such as energy services. It may therefore be convenient for the MTC subscriber  to establish contractual relationships with each of multiple HPLMNs -where MTC devices managed by the MTC subscriber  may be located. As illustrated in , multiple MTC devices - may be deployed in a region of HPLMN . Similarly, multiple MTC devices - may be situated in a region of HPLMN . A similar arrangement of MTC devices  managed by MTC subscriber  may exist for additional HPLMNs up to HPLMN . As illustrated, the MTC devices  may include different types of devices, which may be different types of metering devices for different entities that are all managed or owned by the MTC subscriber .","Consistent with the present embodiments, the MTC devices  may be deployed in the different respective HPLMNs  before being provisioned with a respective subscription to the respective HPLMNs , sometime referred to as a \u201clocal subscription\u201d and \u201clocal network,\u201d respectively. This allows each MTC device  to be provisioned with a local subscription at the point of operation of that MTC device , that is, within an area serviced by an HPLMN  local to the MTC device . In this manner, each MTC device  can communicate with the MTC subscriber  without having to establish a roaming agreement with a HPLMN  when the MTC device  is deployed in a region where the HPLMN  is not local to the MTC subscriber . The subscription arrangement  also facilitates the ability to scale to systems where a large number of MTC devices  are dispersed across a large number of operator networks (HPLMNs ).","In order to provision a local subscription to the MTC devices  in HPLMNs  that are not local to the MTC subscriber , in various embodiments, the MTC subscriber  may provide a mechanism to identify and authenticate an MTC device  to the MTC subscriber  when initially deployed in the field using the radio network of the HPLMN  even though the MTC device  does not currently have a local subscription with the HPLMN . After authentication, the MTC subscriber  may establish a connection to an authenticated MTC device  outside of the local HPLMN  (e.g., without a local subscription) to actually provision the MTC device  with a local subscription to the HPLMN . Subsequently, when the authenticated MTC device  is provisioned with a local subscription, the HPLMN  local to the authenticated MTC device  may function as the HPLMN  for that MTC device .","In accordance with various embodiments, device identification can entail a device ID (such as a media access control (MAC) ID or International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI)) provided within the MTC device  at the time of manufacture. In addition, authentication to an MTC device  may be performed via a certificate or shared secret installed in the MTC device  during manufacture.","Once authenticated and provisioned with a subscription to an HPLMN , each MTC device may communicate with the MTC subscriber  via its respective HPMN . Thus, for example, a provisioned MTC device  may communicate during its operational lifetime via its local HPLMN with the MTC subscriber . As provided for in additional embodiments, subscriptions for MTC devices  thus deployed in the field may also be managed through the life-cycle of an MTC device . For example, during the course of operation, an MTC device  may become defective and need replacing. In other instances, the MTC subscriber  may decide to terminate services to the region provided by an MTC device . For example, the MTC subscriber  may terminate smart metering services in HPLMN that are provided by MTC devices  and . In cases where an MTC device  becomes defective during operation, the present embodiments provide for reprovisioning the subscription held by the defective MTC device . Thus, as illustrated in , when an MTC device  becomes defective while deployed in the field and coupled to the HPLMN , the MTC device  may be taken out of operation. In addition, the subscription originally provisioned to MTC device  may be reprovisioned to a new MTC device , which may involve identification of MTC device  to MTC subscriber  and authentication, as described above. Subsequently, MTC device  may perform the function of the decommissioned MTC device , and may operate with HPMN as its home network without MTC subscriber  having to add or subtract a subscription.","Consistent with further embodiments, in cases in which one or more MTC devices  are to be taken out of operation in an HPLMN  because their service is no longer to be provided, their original subscriptions may be inactivated. In addition, if the MTC devices are to be redeployed for operation elsewhere, the MTC devices  may be provisioned with new subscriptions to a new HPLMN. Thus, MTC devices arranged according to the present embodiments may be conveniently deployed and redeployed between different geographic locations, while subscriptions to an HPLMN may be independently ported between MTC devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","206","206","204","304","206","202","204","206","206","202","206","206","206","202","204","306","204","206","202","308","202","206","204","310","202","204","206","206","206","206","202","204","312","206","202","202","204"]},"Once an MTC  device is provisioned with a local subscription, the MTC device  may operate according to its specified application, such as to provide information to its MTC subscriber  on a regular or intermittent basis. Consistent with the present embodiments, as noted above, the subscription arrangements of the present embodiments provide flexibility in managing the life cycles of an individual MTC device  and individual subscription, which may in general have independent life cycles. For example, the lifetime of an MTC device  may in general be different than the duration of a local subscription that is applied to that MTC device . Moreover, the MTC device  may be deployed in the different regions in which its local subscription may change. In addition, as noted previously, an individual local subscription may be applied to more than one MTC device  in cases where a first MTC device  is taken out of commission or fails and is replaced by a second MTC device  that assumes the local subscription of the first MTC device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["402","206","302","402","206","206","404","206","406","206","204","204","206","204","202"]},"At a future instance, an event may take place that precipitates the decoupling of the first MTC device  and its local subscription to the local HPLMN . For example, the first MTC device  may fail or be taken off-line to be replaced with a new MTC device, or the local subscription may be canceled. The operation  of  involves a scenario in which a device change request is sent from the MTC device  to the MTC subscriber . This request may be precipitated by the failure of the first MTC device, or by another condition that requires the first MTC device to relinquish its current operation with its local subscription. Subsequently, at operation , the MTC subscriber  may, in response to the operation , send a message that terminates or suspends the local subscription on the first MTC device .","In additional embodiments, the operation  may be performed without the operation . In other words, the MTC subscriber  may terminate the local subscription on a first MTC device  without receiving any change request message. As noted, the MTC user may determine that the first MTC device  is to be replaced or its subscription removed for various reasons. At the operation , the MTC subscriber  sends a message to reprovision the local subscription to a second MTC device , which may be deployed in the area of the local HPLMN . In some cases, the MTC user may perform an additional operation  in which a new MTC device  is shipped to the region of the local HPLMN to replace the first MTC device  and assume the local subscription. The same or a similar set of procedures as outlined in - may be applied to the new MTC device .","It is to be noted that the above operations outlined in  to support MTC device subscription and life cycle management cannot be accomplished with the conventional subscription schemes that have been deployed to support devices such as UEs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","500","502","504","502","502","504","506","508","504","502","504","502","510","512","514","504","502","500","504","516","502","504","504","502","518","502","504","518","504","514","518","504","502","504","514","518","504","516","504","502","514","518","514","502","502","504","518","518","514","504","518","504","514","504"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["504","508","602","604","608","504","514","504","514","508","502","502","506","504","502"]},"Details of an embodiment of the MTC device setup module  are provided in . As illustrated, MTC device setup module  includes a status determining module , an authentication module , a feature provisioning module , a subscription database  and MTCp interface . The status determining module  may act to verify the status of the MTC device , such as whether the device  is provisioned with a local subscription to a local HPLMN, whether the MTC device  requires a given MTC feature, or whether the MTC device is to relinquish a local subscription, for example. The authentication module  may act to provide authentication\/identification information and procedures for communication between the MTC device  and MTC server , when a local subscription is to be provided to the MTC device . The MTC feature provisioning module  may facilitate communicating with the MTC server  as to what MTC features are to be provisioned to the MTC device , which provisioning may, but need not, take place when the local subscription is provisioned to the MTC device . Details of one embodiment of the feature provisioning module are provided in . As depicted therein, various MTC features  may be provisioned to the MTC device , as set forth in more detail, for example, in 3GPP TS22.368.","The subscription database  may include information related to one or more subscriptions that may be provisioned to the MTC device , which subscriptions may take place at different intervals of time. Thus, at different points in time, more than one local subscription may be provisioned to the MTC device , which may use the information in subscription database  in setting up or releasing a local subscription. For example, a first subscription may be active at a first interval of time when the MTC device  is deployed in a first location proximate a first HLPMN, while a second subscription may apply when the MTC device  is deployed in a second location proximate a second HLPM over a second interval of time. Consistent with various embodiments, the operations performed by one or more of components - may be performed via the MTCp .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","914"]},"In particular, the dashed lines provide exemplary control plane connections that include new interfaces consistent with the present embodiments. As illustrated, the MTCp interface  is defined between the MTC application  of UE  and the MTC server . Additional interfaces (reference points) in the architecture  are defined in TS 23.682, as illustrated. However, the reference point names are merely exemplary and the same reference point may be referred to by different names.","The architecture includes a radio access network (RAN)  that is coupled to a serving GPRS support node (SGSN)\/mobility management entity (MME)  of the core network. MTC interworking function (MTC-IWF) , the home subscriber server (HSS) , SMS SC\/IP-SM-GW function , and CDF\/CGF function  are also included in the core network. In addition, the RAN  may be linked to a gateway G-GW . Consistent with the present embodiments, the local subscription and various MTC device features as specified in 3GPP TS 22.368 may be provisioned over the MTCp interface  without reconfiguring the basic 3GPP MTC architecture.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000"]},"As detailed in , M2M devices may couple to an M2M application , which may be located at a remote subscriber location, via the mIdsub interface . For example, the M2M device  is coupled to the mIdsub interface  via an M2M area network  and M2M gateway (GW) , while the M2M device  is connected directly to the mIdsub interface , which may be included within the M2M device . In particular, the mIdsub interface  provides an interface between the Network Service Capability Layer (NSCL)  and the D\/GW \/. Consistent with various embodiments, the mIDsub interface  may act in a similar fashion as the MTCp interface  of the 3GPP-based architecture depicted in  to provision the M2M devices  () with subscriptions to services and applications registered with the D\/GW Service Capability Layer (M2M DSCL \/M2MGSCL ).","Subsequently, after being provisioned with a local subscription, the M2M device \/ may communicate via respective conventional interfaces mId \/ with the (remote) M2M applications , via a (local) access network  and core network  of the operator to which the local subscription is provisioned.","In various embodiments, the aforementioned 3GPP-based MTCp interface and the ETSI-based mIDsub interface may be implemented over existing device management protocols, such as OMA-DM (open mobile alliance device management) specified by the Open Mobile Alliance, or the Wireless M2M Protocol-Transport (WMMPT) specified by the China communications standard association (CCSA).","In additional embodiments, a subscription management interface may be deployed in a wired communications network. For example, such an interface may be deployed to support customer premises equipment wide area network (CPEWAN) Management Protocol (CWMP) specified by the TR-069 defined by the broadband forum (BBF).","In summary, the present embodiments provide management of MTC\/M2M devices that is not achievable through conventional schemes. For one, MTC devices  may be shipped without any network subscription into the \u201cfield\u201d where the MTC device  is to be operated. This avoids the need for a single home operator to establish multiple roaming agreements with multiple network partners at the various locations where MTC devices  are to be deployed. In addition, the MTC device  and subscription to a local network may be managed separately, such that a local subscription can be ported between different MTC devices , an MTC device  may assume different local subscriptions over its lifetime, and therefore may potentially have multiple subscriptions to be activated according to the appropriate location and operational state of the MTC device .","Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed system and architecture. While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the one or more methodologies shown herein, for example, in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram, are shown and described as a series of acts, it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by \u03c4he order of acts, as some acts may, in accordance therewith, occur in a different order and\/or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram. Moreover, not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["900","1102","206","1104","1106","206","206"]},"If, at block , a local subscription is determined to exist, the flow moves to block , where the MTC device  connects to the MTC subscriber via the local HPLMN that provides the local subscription. If, at block , the local subscription has not been provisioned to the MTC device , the flow moves to block .","At block  a connection is established from the MTC device  to the MTC subscriber independently of the operator of the local HPLMN.","At block , the MTC device  is identified\/authenticated to the MTC subscriber. At block , a local subscription for the local HPLMN is received\/provisioned to the MTC device . Continuing to block , the MTC device  is activated for operation on the local HPLMN. At block , the MTC device  establishes a connection to the MTC subscriber via the local HPLMN.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1202","1204","1206","1208","1210","1212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1300","1310","1302","1304","1306","1308","1310","1320","1322","1314","1300","1316","1318"]},"As shown in , I\/O device , RAM , and ROM  are coupled to processor  by way of chipset . Chipset  may be coupled to processor  by a bus . Accordingly, bus  may include multiple lines.","Processor  may be a central processing unit comprising one or more processor cores and may include any number of processors having any number of processor cores. The processor  may include any type of processing unit, such as, for example, CPU, multi-processing unit, a reduced instruction set computer (RISC), a processor that have a pipeline, a complex instruction set computer (CISC), digital signal processor (DSP), and so forth. In some embodiments, processor  may be multiple separate processors located on separate integrated circuit chips. In some embodiments processor  may be a processor having integrated graphics, while in other embodiments processor  may be a graphics core or cores.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1400"]},"In one embodiment, the computing architecture  may comprise or be implemented as part of an electronic device. Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation a mobile device, a personal digital assistant, a mobile computing device, a smart phone, a cellular telephone, a handset, a one-way pager, a two-way pager, a messaging device, a computer, a personal computer (PC), a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a notebook computer, a handheld computer, a tablet computer, a server, a server array or server farm, a web server, a network server, an Internet server, a work station, a mini-computer, a main frame computer, a supercomputer, a network appliance, a web appliance, a distributed computing system, multiprocessor systems, processor-based systems, consumer electronics, programmable consumer electronics, television, digital television, set top box, wireless access point, base station, subscriber station, mobile subscriber center, radio network controller, router, hub, gateway, bridge, switch, machine, or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.","The computing architecture  includes various common computing elements, such as one or more processors, co-processors, memory units, chipsets, controllers, peripherals, interfaces, oscillators, timing devices, video cards, audio cards, multimedia input\/output (I\/O) components, and so forth. The embodiments, however, are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .","As shown in , the computing architecture  comprises a processing unit , a system memory  and a system bus . The processing unit  can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit . The system bus  provides an interface for system components including, but not limited to, the system memory  to the processing unit . The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus (with or without a memory controller), a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures.","The computing architecture  may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer-readable storage medium to store various forms of programming logic. Examples of a computer-readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data, including volatile memory or non-volatile memory, removable or non-removable memory, erasable or non-erasable memory, writeable or re-writeable memory, and so forth. Examples of programming logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code, such as source code, compiled code, interpreted code, executable code, static code, dynamic code, object-oriented code, visual code, and the like.","The system memory  may include various types of computer-readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units, such as read-only memory (ROM), random-access memory (RAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), Double-Data-Rate DRAM (DDRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), static RAM (SRAM), programmable ROM (PROM), erasable programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), flash memory, polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory, ovonic memory, phase change or ferroelectric memory, silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS) memory, magnetic or optical cards, or any other type of media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in , the system memory  can include non-volatile memory  and\/or volatile memory . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) can be stored in the non-volatile memory .","The computer  may include various types of computer-readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units, including an internal hard disk drive (HDD) , a magnetic floppy disk drive (FDD)  to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  to read from or write to a removable optical disk  (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD). The HDD , FDD  and optical disk drive  can be connected to the system bus  by a HDD interface , an FDD interface  and an optical drive interface , respectively. The HDD interface  for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus (USB) and IEEE 1294 interface technologies.","The drives and associated computer-readable media provide volatile and\/or nonvolatile storage of data, data structures, computer-executable instructions, and so forth. For example, a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units , , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data .","A user can enter commands and information into the computer  through one or more wire\/wireless input devices, for example, a keyboard  and a pointing device, such as a mouse . Other input devices may include a microphone, an infra-red (IR) remote control, a joystick, a game pad, a stylus pen, touch screen, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through an input device interface  that is coupled to the system bus , but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port, IEEE 1294 serial port, a game port, a USB port, an IR interface, and so forth.","A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adaptor . In addition to the monitor , a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices, such as speakers, printers, and so forth.","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and\/or wireless communications to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  can be a workstation, a server computer, a router, a personal computer, portable computer, microprocessor-based entertainment appliance, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer , although, for purposes of brevity, only a memory\/storage device  is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire\/wireless connectivity to a local area network (LAN)  and\/or larger networks, for example, a wide area network (WAN) . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies, and facilitate enterprise-wide computer networks, such as intranets, all of which may connect to a global communications network, for example, the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a wire and\/or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor  can facilitate wire and\/or wireless communications to the LAN , which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .","When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  can include a modem , or is connected to a communications server on the WAN , or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as by way of the Internet. The modem , which can be internal or external and a wire and\/or wireless device, connects to the system bus  via the input device interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, can be stored in the remote memory\/storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.","The computer  is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards, such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication (e.g., IEEE 802.11 over-the-air modulation techniques) with, for example, a printer, scanner, desktop and\/or portable computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), communications satellite, any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag (e.g., a kiosk, news stand, restroom), and telephone. This includes at least Wi-Fi (or Wireless Fidelity), WiMax, and Bluetooth\u2122 wireless technologies. Thus, the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi-Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x (a, b, g, n, etc.) to provide secure, reliable, fast wireless connectivity. A Wi-Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other, to the Internet, and to wire networks (which use IEEE 802.3-related media and functions).","Some embodiments may be described using the expression \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further, some embodiments may be described using the expression \u201ccoupled\u201d and \u201cconnected\u201d along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example, some embodiments may be described using the terms \u201cconnected\u201d and\/or \u201ccoupled\u201d to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term \u201ccoupled,\u201d however, may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other, but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.","Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non-transitory computer-readable medium, which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.\u201d","It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing Detailed Description, it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims, the terms \u201cincluding\u201d and \u201cin which\u201d are used as the plain-English equivalents of the respective terms \u201ccomprising\u201d and \u201cwherein,\u201d respectively. Moreover, the terms \u201cfirst,\u201d \u201csecond,\u201d \u201cthird,\u201d and so forth, are used merely as labels, and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.","What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and\/or methodologies, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly, the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
