---
title: Annotating contextual workspaces
abstract: In some implementations, a method for providing user-based context to a virtual workspace includes generating a first virtual workspace viewable by a user on a graphical user interface. The virtual workspace comprises a plurality of workspace modules comprising first data aggregated from one or more data objects. The aggregated data is determined to be semantically proximate aggregated data in a second virtual workspace. User annotations assigned to the semantically-proximate aggregated data are identified. The user annotations are presented in the first virtual workplace viewable by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09164990&OS=09164990&RS=09164990
owner: SAP Portals Israel Ltd
number: 09164990
owner_city: Ra'anana
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20111220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL BACKGROUND","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates to using a contextual workspace to view, modify, and\/or manage business data for a business enterprise.","Business users of software in a business enterprise may utilize a virtual workspace to browse, view, modify, and\/or otherwise manipulate data related to the business enterprise. Such data may include a variety of information in many different forms, such as sales data, revenue data, human resources information, business hierarchy information, and otherwise. Graphs, tables, charts, electronic communications, web services, reports, and other forms of data, may be viewable in the user's workspace. The workspace may allow or facilitate the resolution of business issues and\/or problems by the user. In some situations, however, the workspace itself has no semantic knowledge of the content being viewed and\/or manipulated by the user. Thus, the workspace may not able to provide services to the user that rely on a semantic context of data (active or passive) in the workspace, i.e., one or more workspace modules that are on viewable and\/or modifiable on the workspace at a given moment. Contextual information, however, may enable the user to identify relationships between existing modules active in the workspace, relationships between active modules and additional data related to the business enterprise, and, generally, enrich the workspace context.","In some instances, there may be relevant data that is unknown to the business user, such as, for example, additional applications, reports, data feeds, or simply raw data from different content providers. For instance, to react to some business event or to proceed with a business process, the user may need to add relevant content to the workspace to have additional insights or perform further actions. Finding the relevant content is a complex task as each content source offers a lot of content in different formats and protocols, which are not necessarily understood or exposed to the user. Moreover, searching each content provider or other sources of business data for the relevant content is not trivial, as search terms are often complex and content providers might not offer usable search mechanisms.","In some cases, relevant content that may assist the business user in a business event or business process may include content previously generated, viewed, and\/or used by a business colleague (e.g., another business user in the same business unit, a different business unit, and\/or with a similar role in the business enterprise). The business user, however, may have no way to leverage this internal knowledge about what other colleagues did in similar business situations.","Should such relevant content become available to the business user through the workspace, it can often be disjointed and unmanageable. For instance, certain relevant information may be more critical to the business user compared to other relevant information. For instance, relevant information that a colleague with a similar business role found to be important may be more critical than other information. Thus, as data is collected from various content providers, it may be culled and\/or prioritized according to different criteria.","In some implementations, a method for providing user-based context to a virtual workspace includes generating a first virtual workspace viewable by a user on a graphical user interface. The virtual workspace comprises a plurality of workspace modules comprising first data aggregated from one or more data objects. The aggregated data is determined to be semantically proximate aggregated data in a second virtual workspace. User annotations assigned to the semantically-proximate aggregated data are identified. The user annotations are presented in the first virtual workplace viewable by the user.","Various embodiments of a contextual virtual workspace according to the present disclosure may have one or more of the following features. For example, the contextual workspace may add data content sources (e.g., workspace modules containing data from the content sources) to the workspace, thereby enabling a business user of the workspace to consume data from various sources. The contextual workspace may also apply the relevant workspace module on the workspace at runtime. Further, the contextual workspace may also provide for and\/or add a semantic context to the workspace. The semantic context may be aware of all the modules on the workspace (e.g., which module was lately interacted with, which module is active, and otherwise) and enable collection of semantic information on each module (e.g., type, title, and content attributes as well as what operations were done by the user on each module). The contextual virtual workspace may be, therefore, \u2018smart\u201d in that it may expose semantic content and enable contextual services (e.g., suggestions) based on the content. The contextual workspace may also identify context by combining known information on the contents of the workspace and the user interaction with this content to create a meaningful semantic context. The contextual workspace may thus focus on using content and\/or user-related metadata (e.g., collected explicitly or implicitly in the user working environment) to find other relevant content. For example, the contextual workspace may search for content in concrete data and\/or data relationships in different content providers (e.g., searching for a metric extracted from a report used by the user in his workspace and looking for data, such as OLAP data cubes or reports, that use the same metric in the some content provider). As another example, the contextual workspace may suggest workspace modules to add to the workspace according to, for instance, a user's last action, one or more combinations of the workspace similarity and other users behavior patterns, user similarity with other users, time proximity, and other factors. Thus, the contextual workspace may utilize social connections (e.g., role of a user in an enterprise, position of the user, organization unit of the user) to formulate a weight coefficient to apply to more data and\/or suggestions","Various embodiments of a contextual virtual workspace according to the present disclosure may also include one or more of the following features. For example, the contextual workspace may reflect and\/or provide business data in real-time through one or more workspace modules that may be updated dynamically. In the present disclosure, the term \u201creal-time\u201d refers to a substantially instantaneous or near instantaneous event. In other words, \u201creal-time\u201d may refer to the concept of user-interaction time, i.e., the amount of processing time by or with the contextual virtual workspace is less than the user's reaction time (e.g., less than 0.5 seconds). The contextual workspace may also search and\/or manipulate well modeled tables and cubes for semantic services (e.g., suggestions, simplified data acquisition); semantic services in our solutions occurs in time of user interaction (real time). For example, the contextual workspace may include and\/or be coupled with a highly parallelized computational engine with computationally intensive UI patterns (e.g., real time alerts, suggestions). In some aspects, the contextual virtual workspace may be communicably coupled with an in-memory database that allows the user, through the workspace, to instantly (or near instantly) explore and analyze transactional and analytical data from virtually any data source in real-time. Operational data is captured in memory as business happens, and flexible views expose analytic information at the speed of thought. External data can be added to analytic models to expand analysis across an entire business enterprise. In other words, business logic may be closely coupled next to data.","Various embodiments of a contextual virtual workspace according to the present disclosure may also include one or more of the following features. For example, the contextual workspace may collect information about one or more active workspace modules and then recognize relevant content data according to, e.g., metadata, user-interface (UI or workspace module) content, such as headers of a table, activeness of the module, and other metrics. Thus the workspace may push suggestions to the user based on the recent tasks, such as a recent action taken that changes the content of his\/her workspace. As another example, the contextual workspace may identify relevant content as the basis of suggestions in the form of a title of a module (e.g., a snapshot of business explorer description); metadata (e.g., names of columns or descriptions of columns of a table); a cube (e.g., measures and\/or dimensions of an OLAP cube or other data structure allowing fast access of arrayed data, facet-filtering the cube by measure and\/or dimension); reports (e.g., prompts\/input fields); location of user's input device in workspace; and\/or user selection of text in a particular workspace module.","These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a device, system or method, or any combinations of devices, systems, or methods. The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","The present disclosure is directed to a system and method of dynamically annotating aggregated data presented though virtual workspaces. For example, a virtual workspace may present annotations assigned to aggregated data in response to the user selecting the same or similar measure and filter or dimension and filter as the annotators. The annotation may be a text note, a document, a picture, a voice note, and\/or other digital file. The measure may include or otherwise identify the data that is aggregated and\/or calculations executed on the aggregated data (e.g., sum, average, a statistical operation). The dimension may include, for example, time, product, location, term of business intelligence analysis, or other types of dimensions. In some implementations, the dimensions may be hierarchal with sub-dimensions and members. A filter may include a set of parameters or conditions on the dimensions (e.g., date range). By using filters, measures, and dimensions, the annotations may be assigned to dynamic business content. Most business decision makers work on aggregations of data not just individual items, which is the difference between looking at data from one sale vs. thousands of sales. Thus, insights are assigned to dynamic contexts, so insights can be presented in different virtual workplaces presenting the annotated data. In some implementations, notes may be generated from existing metadata. For example, a west-coast manager may annotate data stating that sales are down 10 percent in New York because of weather in the first quarter. When the manager of the east coast division looks at all sales, the annotation may be presented and may assist in explaining the problem with decrease sales. In these instances, different configurations of virtual workplaces may present annotated data and the assigned annotation, so individuals analyzing or otherwise presenting different granularities of aggregated data may view annotations to the relevant data. In other words, different users may configure or otherwise have their individualized virtual workplace and each may be presented with the annotation regardless of the source virtual workplace configuration. In some implementations, the annotation may not have a linear relationship with what the user is executing since the annotations are assigned to aggregated data.","In some implementations, followed data may have sets of measures, dimensions, and\/or filter. In these instances, another user may set an annotation by pointing at, referring to, or otherwise identifying particular data and adding an annotation (e.g., text). The annotation may be written in the context of the particular measure and filter (including visible and invisible filters, a particular dimension and filter, or just filter). As previously mentioned, the first user may be following the same data but in a different view\/artifact such as a graph not a table or bar chart and with some different but overlapping measures, dimensions, and\/or filters. The semantic proximity may be close enough between data viewed by two users that the first user gets a \u201cfeed\u201d with the annotation set by the second user. In some implementations, the semantic proximity can be identified as followed: (1) no overlap at all between data; (2) the exact same data; (3) data of the first is wholly within the data of second (where annotation is set); (4) data of second (where annotation is set) is wholly within the data of the first data; and (5) there is some intersection between the data. As for some intersection between data, the overlap can be ranked based on one or more ratios based on three data sets: (1) data that is in annotated data and other data or the total amount of data; (2) data that is in other data but not in annotated data or solely the amount of non-annotated data; and (3) data that is in annotated data but not other data or solely the amount of annotated data. The first ratio may include second set of data\/first set of data, and the second ratio may include third set of data\/first set of data. A threshold may be set based on one or both of these ratios such that if the second ratio is under threshold, then the note is not present to the other user. In some implementations, these calculations may only be computed if the data has the same measure and filter or the same dimension and filter, i.e., the data has the same measure and filter or the same dimension and filter as the annotated data. In some implementations, the filters just the most important dimensions are compared. In some implementations, particular members of those dimensions are taken and assigned annotations are identified for those members. In some implementations, actual queries on the real data, as opposed to metadata, may be executed to figure out the ratios and determine if the threshold is met. A function of the two ratios may be used to calculate a ranking and compare it to the threshold in order to determine if the annotations are shown or not. In some implementations, the user can just generally browse\/search annotations that are relevant to the data followed such as drilling down to annotations that are relevant to them and\/or performing operations on that subset of annotations. For annotations for data not followed by a user, the user may execute a search or execute a search with context, i.e., with the data you are following. Personal annotations may be configured to display in different views with different granularities, which is more personal than collaborative. While the annotations are typically public, the annotations may be configured to private annotations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"In some implementations, a \u201cuser role\u201d may be a role of a user within his\/her business enterprise as determined in the enterprise's corporate human resource (HR) system(s) and its affinity to groups and departments, and a role that may be a dynamically calculated business network relationship within the enterprise based on business solutions developed through one or more enterprise applications. It may include, but not be limited to, participation in particular projects, having particular expertise, participation in the same (e.g., ad hoc) working groups, and otherwise.","The illustrated computing environment  includes a server system , a client system , and a remote computing system  communicably coupled through a network . Although illustrated as single systems, each of the systems , , and  may include more than one system and\/or more than one computing device (e.g., computer, laptop, server, mobile device, and otherwise) within a distributed computing environment. In general, computing environment  depicts an example configuration of a system capable of providing stateful execution of stateless applications in a substantially transparent way, as well as dynamically determining the particular application's mode of operation in response to requests from its clients (e.g., client appliances ).","The illustrated server system  includes one or more server appliances  having corresponding graphical user interfaces (GUIs) . In general, the server appliance  is a server that stores one or more applications, where at least a portion of the applications are executed via requests and responses sent to users or clients within and communicably coupled to the illustrated environment  of . In some instances, the server appliance  may store a plurality of various hosted applications, while in other instances, the server appliance  may be a dedicated server meant to store and execute only a single hosted application (e.g., the contextual workspace (server) ). In some instances, the server appliance  may comprise a web server, where the applications, such as the contextual workspace (server)  represent one or more web-based applications accessed and executed via network  by the client appliances  of the environment  to perform the programmed tasks or operations of the hosted applications.","At a high level, the server appliance  comprises an electronic computing device operable to receive, transmit, process, store, or manage data and information associated with the environment . Specifically, the server appliance  illustrated in  is responsible for receiving application requests from one or more applications (e.g., associated with clients  of environment  and responding to the received requests by processing said requests in the associated hosted application , and sending the appropriate response from the hosted application  back to the requesting client application . In addition to requests from the external clients  illustrated in , requests associated with the hosted applications  may also be sent from internal users, external or third-party customers, other automated applications, as well as any other appropriate entities, individuals, systems, or computers.","As used in the present disclosure, the term \u201ccomputer\u201d is intended to encompass any suitable processing device. For example, although  illustrates a single server appliance , environment  can be implemented using two or more server appliances , as well as computers other than servers, including a server pool. Indeed, server appliance  may be any computer or processing device such as, for example, a blade server, general-purpose personal computer (PC), Macintosh, workstation, UNIX-based workstation, or any other suitable device (e.g., smartphones, PDAs, tablets). In other words, the present disclosure contemplates computers other than general purpose computers, as well as computers without conventional operating systems. Further, illustrated server appliance  may be adapted to execute any operating system, including Linux, UNIX, Windows, Mac OS, or any other suitable operating system.","The illustrated server appliance  is communicably coupled with in-memory database  in the server system . In some implementations, server  and\/or certain of its components may be integrated with database  so that, for instance, processing (e.g., all or partial) may be performed directly on in-memory data with processing results passed (e.g., via a communication channel) directly to a client. In alternative implementations, the in-memory database  may be located external to the server system  and communicably coupled to one or more of the server system  and\/or client system  through the network . The illustrated in-memory database  may include integrated processing, i.e., all business and\/or analytic operations done in processing memory. Moreover, content from business content sources (described more fully below) may be replicated from one or more transactional systems (e.g., coupled to the network ) to the in-memory database  immediately. Thus, the in-memory database , in some aspects, may handle the analytical systems for all business data in real-time, as opposed to, for instance, computational processing systems that have separate transactional and analytical systems that connect through relational databases (i.e., relational databases stored on magnetic memory that require a process, e.g., ETL, to transfer data from one system to another not in real time but with a delay of an hour, day, week, or longer).","In some implementations, the in-memory database  may expose business data and capabilities to improve an end-solution for end users (e.g., the client appliances ). The in-memory database  may reside on top of a computational engine (e.g., in the server appliance  or otherwise) that facilitates fast manipulations on large amounts of business data and\/or replication of entire business suite information. Thus, in some implementations, the in-memory database may provide for the following design principles\/concepts: business data in real-time (e.g., GUI patterns for constantly updated business data); well modeled tables and data cubes (e.g., in order to provide semantic services); a highly parallelized computational engine (e.g., for computationally intensive GUI patterns such as real time alerts and\/or suggestions); close coupling of business logic and business data (e.g., eliminating indexing and caching).","The illustrated in-memory database  stores one or more data objects . The data objects  may include and\/or reference a variety of objects that store and\/or include business data. For instance, the data objects  may be data cubes, such as OLAP (online analytical processing) cubes. The data cubes may consist of a data structure that allows for columnar data storage rather than, e.g., row data storage; different types of indices compared to relational databases; and in-memory technology as compared to data stored in relational databases. The data cube may also allow manipulation and\/or analysis of the data stored in the cube from multiple perspectives, e.g., by dimensions, measures, and\/or elements of the cube. A cube dimension defines a category of data stored in the cube, for example, a time duration of certain business data, a product or service, business user roles, and a variety of other categories. In other words, a cube dimension may be one way to slice business data stored in the cube according to some business logic (e.g., logic within and\/or associated with the contextual workspace modules). In some instances, the data cube may have three-dimensions, but any number of dimensions may be designed into the cube (e.g., a hypercube).","A cube measure may be a fact, such as a numeric fact, that is categorized into one or more dimensions. Measures may include, for example, specific product sales data according to a set period of time. Measures may also include, for example, manufacturing efficiency data for a particular organizational unit of a business enterprise. In short, measures may include any appropriate business data that may be manipulated according to business logic to assist or support the business enterprise.","One or more functions may be performed on a data cube. For instance, the data cube may be pivoted, in various ways. Each pivot provides the business user with a distinct view of particular business data stored in the cube. For instance, in one view, a business user may be presented with sales data of a specific data within a particular geographic region across a particular time period with a particular focus on the sales vs. geography relationship. In another view, the same data (e.g., the same measures and elements) may be presented with a different focus, e.g., the sales vs. time period relationship. In some aspects, pivoting a data cube in real-time may allow the business user to more efficiently analyze the business data.","Other functions performable on data cubes may be, for instance, slice, dice, drill down\/up, and roll-up. A slice operation identifies a subset of a multi-dimensional array corresponding to a single value for one or more members of the cube dimensions not in the subset. A dice operation is a slice operation on more than two dimensions of a data cube (or more than two consecutive slices). A drill down\/up operation allows the business user to navigate the data cube's levels of data to reveal levels containing the most summarized (up) data to the most detailed (down) data. A roll-up operation involves computing all of the data relationships for one or more dimensions of the data cube.","The data objects  may include and\/or store other forms of data along with or in place of data cubes. For example, the data objects  may represent, store, and\/or reference data from one or more content sources, such as web content, feeds, REST services, business data repositories, reports, status updates, discussions, wikis, blogs, and other content sources. Of course, while illustrated as contained in the in-memory database , the data objects  may also be stored, for example, in one or both of the memories , in the remote computing system , and\/or a separate repository communicably coupled to the network . In some implementations, the data objects  may be stored in a raw, compiled, or compressed form or combination thereof.","The illustrated client system  includes one or more client appliances  having corresponding GUIs . Each client appliance  may be any computing device operable to connect to or communicate with at least the server system  and\/or via the network  using a wireline or wireless connection. Further, as illustrated, each client appliance  includes a processor , an interface , and a memory . In general, each client appliance  comprises an electronic computer device operable to receive, transmit, process, and store any appropriate data associated with the environment  of . It will be understood that there may be any number of client appliances  associated with, or external to, environment . For example, while illustrated environment  illustrates three client appliances, alternative implementations of environment  may include a single client appliance  communicably coupled to the server system , or any other number suitable to the purposes of the environment .","Additionally, there may also be one or more additional client appliances  external to the illustrated portion of environment  that are capable of interacting with the environment  via the network . Further, the term \u201cclient\u201d and \u201cuser\u201d may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover, while each client appliance  is described in terms of being used by a single user, this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer, or that one user may use multiple computers. As used in this disclosure, client appliance  is intended to encompass a tablet computing device, personal computer, touch screen terminal, workstation, network computer, kiosk, wireless data port, smart phone, personal data assistant (PDA), one or more processors within these or other devices, or any other suitable processing device. For example, each client appliance  may comprise a computer that includes an input device, such as a keypad, touch screen, mouse, or other device that can accept user information, and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of the server system  or the client appliance  itself, including digital data, visual information, any application, or the GUI . Both the input and output device may include fixed or removable storage media such as a magnetic storage media, CD-ROM, or other suitable media to both receive input from and provide output to users of the client appliances  through the display, namely, the GUI .","The illustrated network  facilitates wireless or wireline communications between the components of the environment  (i.e., between the server system  and the client system ), as well as with any other local or remote computer (e.g., remote computing system ), such as additional clients, servers, or other devices communicably coupled to network  but not illustrated in . The network  is illustrated as a single network in , but may be a continuous or discontinuous network without departing from the scope of this disclosure, so long as at least a portion of the network  may facilitate communications between senders and recipients. The network  may be all or a portion of an enterprise or secured network, while in another instance at least a portion of the network  may represent a connection to the Internet. In some instances, a portion of the network  may be a virtual private network (VPN), such as, for example, the connection between the client system  and the server system .","Further, all or a portion of the network  can comprise either a wireline or wireless link. Example wireless links may include 802.11a\/b\/g\/n, 802.20, WiMax, and\/or any other appropriate wireless link. In other words, the network  encompasses any internal or external network, networks, sub-network, or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components inside and outside the illustrated environment . The network  may communicate, for example, Internet Protocol (IP) packets, Frame Relay frames, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) cells, voice, video, data, and other suitable information between network addresses. The network  may also include one or more local area networks (LANs), radio access networks (RANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), wide area networks (WANs), cellular networks, all or a portion of the Internet, and\/or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations.","The illustrated remote computing system  is communicably coupled to one or both of the server system  and client system  through the network . In some instances, as illustrated, the remote computing system  stores and\/or references third party content , such as, for example, data objects, web content, electronic communications, content feeds, and other data sources. Although illustrated as a single appliance, the remote computing system  may include any number of appliances (e.g., servers, clients, mobile devices, and otherwise) coupled to the network  individually and\/or in groups. For instance, in some implementations, the remote computing system  may be a web content server delivering web content to one or more of the client appliances  in response to a request. In some implementations, the remote computing system  may be a repository storing one or more data objects, such as data cubes or other form of database storing business data.","The illustrated communication interfaces  (shown as part of the server appliance  and the client appliance ) facilitate communication among appliances in, for example, the client system , the remote computing system , and the server system . The interfaces  may also facilitate communication among the illustrated systems and other systems in a client-server or other distributed environment (including within environment ) connected to the network. Generally, the interfaces  include logic encoded in software and\/or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically, the interfaces  may include software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network  or interface's hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated environment .","The illustrated processors  (shown as part of the server appliance  and the client appliance ) may be a central processing unit (CPU), a blade, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or another suitable component. Generally, the processors  execute instructions and manipulate data to perform the operations of the respective server appliance  and client appliance  and, specifically, the contextual workspace module (server)  and contextual workspace module (client) ), as well as any other applications. Specifically, the server appliance's processor  executes the functionality required to receive and respond to requests from the client appliances  and their respective applications (e.g., contextual workspace (client) ), as well as the functionality required to perform the other operations of the contextual workspace module (server) .","Regardless of the particular implementation, \u201csoftware\u201d may include computer-readable instructions, firmware, wired or programmed hardware, or any combination thereof on a tangible medium operable when executed to perform at least the processes and operations described herein. Indeed, each software component may be fully or partially written or described in any appropriate computer language including C, C++, Java, Visual Basic, assembler, Perl, any suitable version of 4GL, as well as others. It will be understood that while portions of the software illustrated in  are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects, methods, or other processes, the software may instead include a number of sub-modules, third party services, components, libraries, and such, as appropriate. Conversely, the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate. Although illustrated as a single processor  for each of the respective server appliance  and client appliance  in , two or more processors may be used according to particular needs, desires, or particular implementations of environment .","The illustrated memories  (shown as part of the server appliance  and the client appliance ) may include any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non-volatile memory including, without limitation, magnetic media, optical media, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), removable media, or any other suitable local or remote memory component. Each memory  may store various objects or data, including classes, frameworks, applications, backup data, business objects, jobs, web pages, web page templates, database tables, repositories storing business and\/or dynamic information, and any other appropriate information including any parameters, variables, algorithms, instructions, rules, constraints, or references thereto associated with the purposes of the respective server appliance  and client appliance . Additionally, each memory  may include any other appropriate data, such as VPN applications, firmware logs and policies, firewall policies, a security or access log, print or other reporting files, as well as others.","As illustrated, memory  of the server appliance  includes and\/or stores one or more server content objects . Memory  of the client appliance  includes and\/or stores one or more client content objects . In some implementations, the server content objects  and\/or the client content objects  may be similar to the data objects  stored in the in-memory database . For example, the content objects  and  may be data cubes, tables, reports, or other content sources, such as web content, electronic communications, feeds, and otherwise. Regardless of the form of the content objects  and , these objects may contain and\/or reference business data on which business logic may be applied, e.g., by the contextual workspace module (server)  and\/or contextual workspace module (client) , in order to realize and\/or accomplish a task in a business environment.","The illustrated computing system  includes a contextual workspace module (server)  and a contextual workspace module (client) . At a high level, each of the contextual workspace module (server)  and a contextual workspace module (client)  (referred to collectively as the contextual workspace modules) is any application, program, module, process, or other software that may execute, change, delete, generate, or otherwise manage information according to the present disclosure, particularly in response to and in connection with one or more requests received from the illustrated client appliances  and their associated applications. In certain cases, only one contextual workspace module (server)  may be located at a particular server appliance . In others, a plurality of related and\/or unrelated contextual workspace module (server)  may be stored at a single server appliance , or located across a plurality of other server appliances  in the server system , as well.","In certain cases, the contextual workspace modules may be implemented as composite applications. For example, portions of the composite application may be implemented as Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) or design-time components may have the ability to generate run-time implementations into different platforms, such as J2EE (Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition), ABAP (Advanced Business Application Programming) objects, or Microsoft's .NET, among others. Additionally, the contextual workspace modules may represent web-based applications accessed and executed by remote client appliances  or client applications via the network  (e.g., through the Internet).","Further, while illustrated as internal to server appliance , one or more processes associated with the contextual workspace module (server)  may be stored, referenced, or executed remotely. For example, a portion of the contextual workspace module (server)  may be a web service associated with the application that is remotely called, while another portion of the contextual workspace module (server)  may be an interface object or agent bundled for processing at a remote client appliance  via the contextual workspace module (client) . Moreover, any or all of the contextual workspace modules may be a child or sub-module of another software module or enterprise application (not illustrated) without departing from the scope of this disclosure.","As explained more fully below, one or both of the contextual workspace modules  and  may present or facilitate presentation of a user interface, e.g., through GUI  and\/or GUI , to a business user to perform a variety of tasks. For instance, the contextual workspace modules  and  may present one or more workspace modules containing business data relevant to the business user in a variety of forms, e.g., tables, graphs, notes, and otherwise. The relevant business data may be sourced from, for example, the data objects  or other content sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2B","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","250","200","250","200","250","100"]},"Turning to , the illustrated distributed computing system  includes a web portal  communicably coupled to a virtual appliance  and an in memory database . In some implementations, the web portal  provides an authentication portal allowing a single point of access to applications, business data, and services both within and external to a business enterprise. For instance, an employee or user of the business enterprise may access the virtual appliance  and\/or the in-memory database  via the web portal . In other words, the web portal  may provide a front end accessible through a client appliance located at the business enterprise.","The illustrated web portal  includes a client enterprise workspace . In some aspects, the client enterprise workspace  may be substantially similar to the contextual workspace module (client)  shown in . For instance, the client enterprise workspace  may present or facilitate presentation of a user interface (e.g., one or more workspace modules described more fully below) to the business user to perform a variety of tasks.","The illustrated virtual appliance  may be substantially similar to the server appliance  illustrated in  and include a server enterprise workspace , a business intelligence module , and an open source module . The server enterprise workspace , in some implementations, may be substantially similar to the contextual workspace module (server)  shown in . For instance, the server enterprise workspace  may provide for a customizable and dynamic virtual workspace accessible to a client and\/or user via a GUI, e.g., through the web portal . In some aspects, as explained more fully below, such a virtual contextual workspace may provide for a number of functional features and advantages, such as, for instance, providing semantic context to relevant business data, providing suggestions to the user to add semantic and\/or social data, and generating a number of ranked suggestions to add semantic data to the workspace according to social criteria.","The illustrated business intelligence module , at a high level, provides software and\/or middleware services for performance analytics (e.g., supports organizational efforts to develop sophisticated visual representations of processes and performance, providing organizations with new insights that can help them make more informed decisions, assess and plan a business intelligence strategy, deploy dashboard tools, generate management and operational reports, and build an IT infrastructure that provides high scalability for users and data); services for analytic applications (e.g., provides guidance and deployment expertise in implementing analytic applications, offering pre-built analytics and data models to help a customer with a specific business problem in various industries, helping organizations to efficiently deploy applications); and introductory business intelligence services (e.g., introduces organizations to the dynamics of using business intelligence, providing the ability to leverage the functionality of business intelligence\u2014such as executive dashboards and operational reports\u2014without initiating a full-scale implementation).","The illustrated open source module , in some implementations, may be an open source web application framework, such as, for example, a Rails (or RoR) for the Ruby programming language. In some implementations, the module  may provide generic services like authentication, authorization, repository, logging, and otherwise.","The illustrated virtual appliance  is communicably coupled to a business object repository  in order to consume (e.g., retrieve, modify, manipulate or otherwise) business objects relevant to the business enterprise. Each business object stored on the repository , for example, a capsule with an internal hierarchical structure, behavior offered by its operations, and integrity constraints. In general, the overall structure of the business object model ensures the consistency of the interfaces that are derived from the business object model. The derivation helps ensure that the same business-related subject matter or concept can be represented and structured in the same way in various interfaces. The business object model defines the business-related concepts at a central location for a number of business transactions. In other words, it reflects the decisions made about modeling the business entities of the real world acting in business transactions across industries and business areas. The business object model is defined by the business objects and their relationship to each other (the overall net structure).","Business objects are generally semantically disjointed, i.e., the same business information is represented once. In some implementations, the business objects are arranged in an ordering framework such that they can be arranged according to their existence dependency to each other. For example, in a modeling environment, the customizing elements might be arranged on the left side of the business object model, the strategic elements might be arranged in the center of the business object model, and the operative elements might be arranged on the right side of the business object model. Similarly, the business objects can be arranged in this model from the top to the bottom based on defined order of the business areas, e.g., finance could be arranged at the top of the business object model with customer relationship management (CRM) below finance and supplier relationship management (SRM) below CRM. To help ensure the consistency of interfaces, the business object model may be built using standardized data types as well as packages to group related elements together, and package templates and entity templates to specify the arrangement of packages and entities within the structure.","A business object may be defined such that it contains multiple layers. Typical business object may contains four layers: a kernel layer, an integrity layer, an interface layer, and an access layer. The innermost layer of the example business object is the kernel layer. The kernel layer represents the business object's inherent data, containing various attributes of the defined business object. The second layer represents the integrity layer. The integrity layer contains the business logic of the object. Such logic may include business rules for consistent embedding in a computing environment and the constraints regarding the values and domains that apply to the business object. Business logic may comprise statements that define or constrain some aspect of the business, such that they are intended to assert business structure or to control or influence the behavior of the business entity. It may pertain to the facts recorded on data and constraints on changes to that data. In effect, business logic may determine what data may, or may not, be recorded in business object. The third layer, the interface layer, may supply the valid options for accessing the business object and describe the implementation, structure, and interface of the business object to the outside world. To do so, the interface layer may contain methods, input event controls, and output events. The fourth and outermost layer of the business object is the access layer. The access layer defines the technologies that may be used for external access to the business object's data. Some examples of allowed technologies may include COM\/DCOM (Component Object Model\/Distributed Component Object Model), CORBA (Common Object Request Broker Architecture), RFC (Remote Function Call), Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Java, among others. Additionally, business objects of this implementation may implement standard object-oriented technologies such as encapsulation, inheritance, and\/or polymorphism.","The illustrated system  includes the in-memory database  communicably coupled to the web portal  and the virtual appliance . For example, as illustrated, the in-memory database  may be invoked by either or both of the web portal  and the virtual appliance . The in-memory database  may be substantially similar to the in-memory database  described in . Further, the in-memory database  includes in-memory business logic  (which, as illustrated, may be invoked by either or both of the web portal  and the virtual appliance ). The in-memory business logic  may include a combination of one or more of software, middleware, and hardware (or other logic) operable to manipulate one or more data objects (e.g., stored in-memory on the database ). For instance, the in-memory business logic  may perform functionality associated with and\/or used by the enterprise workspace (client)  and\/or enterprise workspace (server) , as well as other functionality disclosed herein.","The illustrated in-memory database  is communicably coupled to a business suite . In some implementations, as described above, complete or partial processing may be done directly on a database, thus rendering making components like the \u201cdatabase,\u201d \u201cserver,\u201d and\/or \u201csuite\u201d substantially similar or identical. At a high level, the business suite  may consist of one or more integrated enterprise applications enabling, e.g., business enterprises, to execute and optimize business and IT strategies, such as performing industry-specific, and business-support processes. In some implementations, the business suite  may be built on an open, service-oriented architecture (SOA). Such integrated business applications may be replicated, for example, via the web portal  through the in-memory database , such as via the enterprise workspace (client) .","The illustrated in-memory database  is also communicably coupled to third party content . The third party content , for example, may be substantially similar to data stored and\/or referenced by the remote computing system  described with reference to , such as, for example, the third party content . In some aspects, the third party content  may be stored and\/or accessed through relational databases (i.e., relational databases stored on magnetic memory that require a process, e.g., ETL, to transfer data from one system to another not in real time but with a delay of an hour, day, week, or longer). For instance, while some business data may be stored on the in memory database  and therefore, be accessible in real-time, some business data may be available to and\/or exposed by the in-memory business logic , such as the third party content .","The illustrated system  also includes one or more clients . For instance, as illustrates, the clients  may include a mobile client , and a web workspace . One or more of the clients  may invoke, for example, the enterprise workspace (server) , on the virtual appliance  in order to access and\/or expose the functionality of the in-memory business logic . For example, the mobile client  may facilitate invocation of the enterprise workspace (server)  from a mobile device (e.g., cell phone, smart phone, email mobile device, PDA, or other mobile device). The web workspace  may, for instance, facilitate invocation of the enterprise workspace (server)  through a network connection, such as the global network known as the world wide web.","Turning to , the illustrated distributed computing system  includes the web portal  communicably coupled to an in-memory application server , which, in turn, is communicably coupled to the clients , the business object repository , and a business financial management module . Accordingly, as illustrated, the distributed computing system  may provide for an alternative deployment configuration of a system operable to generate, view, modify, and\/or otherwise manipulate a contextual workspace, as compared to the system , but with similar (or identical) components in some respect. For example, as illustrated, the in-memory application server  in system  may replace the virtual appliance \/in-memory database  shown in . The in-memory application server , as illustrated, includes the in-memory database  (including, for example, the in-memory business logic , not shown here). The in-memory application server , as illustrated, also includes the server enterprise workspace , the business intelligence module , and the open source module .","The illustrated business financial management module , generally, supports IT services costing, customer value analysis, cost to serve, bill of material costing, and activity based costing, among other financial metrics. In some implementations, for example, the business financial management module  may provide for user-friendly, rapid, and efficient model building; accurate calculation and cross-charge for IT and other shared services; monitoring and manage costs, pricing, and true profitability; accurate assignment of overheads and indirect costs to customers, products, and channels; access to cost and profitability data by customer, product, or business channel; accurate assignment, monitoring, and analysis of overhead costs tied to bill of materials, among other functions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","340","356","370","372","374","376","302","340","356","370","372","374","376"]},"The illustrated web client  includes a UI module , a connectivity module , and a context module . The illustrated UI module , in some implementations, may generate, modify, and\/or maintain a virtual contextual workspace and present the workspace to a user through a GUI. The UI module  includes a workspace manager , a module gallery , a layout manager , a data orchestrator , a contextual assistance module , a global filtering module , a data streaming module , and a timeline module . The illustrated workspace manager , in some implementations, may include functionality that manages operation and use of the contextual workspace by the user.","The illustrated module gallery , in some implementations, may keep track of one or more workspace modules (such as the workspace modules shown in ) viewable on and\/or available to a contextual workspace presented to the user. For example, the module gallery  may include an index (e.g., stored in a repository) of the current workspace modules being viewed by the user in the contextual workspace.","The illustrated layout manager , in some implementations, may determine how one or more selected and\/or requested workspace modules may be arranged on the contextual workspace. For example, the layout manager  may determine a size and\/or placement of each module on the contextual workspace in order to, for instance, better manage the contextual workspace in the GUI presented to the user.","The illustrated data orchestrator , in some implementations, may determine, for example, one or more available views and\/or functionality available to the user with respect to a data cube (e.g., an OLAP cube storing business data exposable to the user). For example, the data orchestrator  may determine how to present or show any data model, including a data cube, to the user (e.g., icon, full screen, or something in between).","The illustrated contextual assistance module , in some implementations, may include functionality that provides the user of the contextual workspace generated by the architecture  with additional business data contextually relevant with business data being currently viewed in the workspace. For instance, as described below with respect to , the contextual assistance module  (or other modules included in the illustrated architecture ) may identify semantically related information to that currently viewed on the contextual workspace by the user. The semantically related information may be suggested to the user, for example, to add to the contextual workspace through one or more workspace modules.","The illustrated global filtering module , in some implementations, may provide for functionality that, for example, ranks and\/or filters various suggestions for content (e.g., semantically related content or socially related content) to be added to the user's contextual workspace through architecture . For instance, as described below with respect to , the global filtering module  (or other modules included in the illustrated architecture ) may rank suggestions to add semantically related data to the user's contextual workspace according to one or more social metrics.","The illustrated data annotations module , in some implementations, may provide for functionality that, for example, allows a user to generate notes (or other annotations) that provide specific context to data within one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace. For instance the data annotations module  may, in some aspects, allow the user to dynamically create and\/or view insights (e.g., notes or other annotations) on contexts of data within the contextual workspace. The insights could be for the user or other users (e.g., a collaboration).","The illustrated data streaming module , in some implementations, may manage, direct, and\/or control the transfer of data (e.g., from data objects, data cubes, documents, reports, feeds, and other data sources) to, for example, the web client . For instance, the data streaming module  may manage the speed at which data is transferred to the web client  to, for example, expose on one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace generated and presented to the user.","The illustrated timeline module , in some implementations, may provide for functionality that allows a user to \u201ctime travel\u201d through one or more previous views of a contextual workspace. For instance, in some implementations, each distinct contextual workspace (i.e., each view with a distinct set, combination, and\/or number of workspace modules included within the contextual workspace) may be time stamped with a particular time (e.g., hour\/minute\/day, date, week, month, or other granularity). The time stamp may be part of the metadata of the contextual workspace generated by and presented to the user. In some aspects, the user may \u201ctime travel\u201d back in time to view previous versions of the contextual workspace according to the time stamp. Thus, not only the data contained in the contextual workspace, but the user's subjective view on the data (e.g., which workspace modules were selected) can be retrieved. The user may filter the contextual workspace versions by the time stamp, data exposed in the contextual workspaces, keywords, and\/or other metrics.","The illustrated connectivity module  includes, in some implementations, context sources module  and a content fetching module , and, in some aspects, may provide connection functionality for the web client  to communicate with, for example, the web server , the in-memory computing engine , the data sources , and\/or other content repositories or sources. The illustrated context sources module , in some implementations, may provide for functionality to the web client  to connect to various sources of contextually relevant (e.g., semantically relevant) data related to one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace. For example, semantically relevant data may be exposed from, for example, data objects, data cubes, documents, search functions, social data (e.g., people), and other sources. In some implementations, for example, the context sources module  may function along with other components of the illustrated architecture (e.g., the contextual services manager , the social suggestions module , and other components) to perform the functionality described in , as well as other processes and methods described herein.","The illustrated content fetching module , in some implementations, may provide functionality to retrieve and\/or gather data content from one or more data sources, such as, for example, data objects, data cubes, documents, search functions, social data (e.g., people), and other sources.","The illustrated context module  includes, in some implementations, a context discovery module , a suggestions and rankings module , an events and alerts module , and a context model . In some aspects, the context module  may provide functionality related to discovering and\/or suggesting semantically relevant data (e.g., from data objects, data cubes, and otherwise) related to data being viewed by the user on the contextual workspace. The illustrated context discovery module , in some implementations, may provide functionality related to searching for and\/or exposing semantically relevant content related to data on the contextual workspace, e.g., in one or more workspace modules. For example, semantically relevant data may include information related to data that the user works with or views in the contextual workspace and\/or arranges (according to his\/her expertise) within the contextual workspace. For instance, the arrangement of data (e.g., which workspace modules are selected and\/or viewed) may provide at least a portion of the overall context of the workspace apart from the data (numerical or otherwise). The semantically relevant data may be related, e.g., according to keywords, metadata, cube dimensions, cube measures, cube views, table headings, etc., which may be unknown to the user (due to, for instance, the vast amount of data available to the user).","The illustrated suggestions and rankings module , in some implementations, may include functionality that provides suggestions of semantically relevant data to the user to add to the contextual workspace. The suggestions and rankings module  may also include functionality that ranks a number of suggestions of semantically relevant data according to, for example, matching keywords, matching metadata, social metrics, and\/or other criteria. For instance, in some aspects, the suggestions and rankings module  may include functionality illustrated in one or more of the methods shown in .","The illustrated events and alerts module , in some implementations, may include functionality that allows the user set an alert, e.g., at a given point of time when a particular event is occurring. The user, therefore, may be reminded (at a later time) of how that particular problem was resolved. In some aspects, the events and alerts module  may also provide a user with notification (via one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace) of events and\/or alerts based on, for instance, actions of other users with similar roles within the business enterprise (e.g., within the same organization unit, or having the same title).","The illustrated context model , in some implementations, may build and\/or generate a model (e.g., a context bag) containing the discovered semantically relevant data related to the contextual workspace data exposed in one or more workspace modules.","The illustrated web server  includes a workspace services module . The illustrated workspace services module  includes a content provider manager , a workspace data manager , a context data manager , a contextual services manager , and a data acquisition and modeling module . The illustrated content provider manager  and the illustrated workspace data manager , in some implementations, may direct, control, and\/or otherwise manage the content and data exposed on the one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace.","The illustrated context data manager , in some implementations, may direct, control, and\/or otherwise manage semantically relevant content (e.g., determined according to, for example, metadata contained in the workspace modules on the contextual workspace). For example, the context data manager , either alone or along with one or more other components of the architecture  (e.g., the semantic suggestions module , the suggestions and rankings module , and\/or other components) may provide functionality illustrated in one or more of the methods shown in . In some implementations, the illustrated contextual services manager  may include functionality that assists (at least partially) the context data manager  in directing, controlling, and\/or otherwise managing semantically relevant.","The illustrated data acquisition and modeling module , in some implementations, may perform modeling functionality on business data to be exposed in one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace. For instance, the data acquisition and modeling module  may model data objects, such as data cubes, as three-dimensional workspace modules in the contextual workspace.","The illustrated in-memory computing engine  includes a social suggestions module , a semantic suggestions module , an alert engine , a data annotations module , a context database , and a business suite database . In some implementations, the social suggestions module  may, in some implementations, include functionality that provides suggestions of socially relevant data to the user to add to the contextual workspace. For instance, the suggestions may include business data that other users (e.g., other business users in the same organizational unit of the enterprise, same team of the user, or same role of the user, to name a few) found relevant and\/or useful. The suggested business data may also be contextually relevant to one or more workspace modules active in the user's contextual workspace. The social suggestions module  may, in some aspects, include functionality illustrated in one or more of the methods shown in .","The illustrated semantic suggestions module , in some implementations, include functionality that provides suggestions of semantically relevant data to the user to add to the contextual workspace. For instance, the suggestions may include business data that has some related contextual similarity with data exposed in one or more workspace modules in the user's contextual workspace. For example, the semantically relevant data may be business data from a data cube having one or more similar dimensions and\/or measures as compared to a data cube currently being viewed and\/or analyzed in the contextual workspace. As another example, the semantically relevant data may be business data from a table having a similar heading to a table currently being viewed in the contextual workspace. Thus, the suggested semantically relevant data may be business data that provides insight to the user that the business user would not have known about otherwise. The semantic suggestions module  may, in some aspects, include functionality illustrated in one or more of the methods shown in .","The illustrated alert engine , in some implementations, in some implementations, may include functionality that allows the user set an alert, e.g., at a given point of time when a particular event is occurring. The user, therefore, may be reminded (at a later time) of how that particular problem was resolved. In some aspects, the alert engine  may also provide a user with notification (via one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace) of alerts based on, for instance, actions of other users with similar roles within the business enterprise (e.g., within the same organization unit, or having the same title).","The illustrated data annotations module , in some implementations, may provide for functionality that, for example, allows a user to generate notes (or other annotations) that provide specific context to data within one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace. For instance the data annotations module  may, in some aspects, allow the user to dynamically create and\/or view insights (e.g., notes or other annotations) on contexts of data within the contextual workspace. The insights could be for the user or other users (e.g., a collaboration).","The illustrated context database , in some implementations, may store and\/or reference one or more contextually relevant data objects, such as data objects that have been determined (e.g., by one or more components of the architecture  such as the social suggestions module , the semantic suggestions module , or other component) to be socially and\/or semantically relevant based on one or more workspace modules in the contextual workspace. For example, the context database  may store and\/or reference one or more data cubes, reports, documents, business objects, or other data objects. In some implementations, the context database  may also store and\/or reference one or more suggestions (e.g., social, semantic, or otherwise) generated by the architecture .","The illustrated business suite database , in some implementations, may store and\/or reference business data, such as business data utilized by the business suite app ","The illustrated external services  include an event insight , social intelligence , text analysis , and feed services . Generally, the illustrated external services  may provide business data (e.g., semantically and\/or socially relevant business data) to at least one of the web client , the web server , and\/or in-memory computing engine . For instance, the illustrated event insight , in some implementations, may provide alerts to the web client  and\/or web server  to present to the business user through one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace. The illustrated social intelligence , in some implementations, may provide social business data (e.g., social connections between one or more business users in a business enterprise) to the web client  and\/or web server  to present to the business user through one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace. For example, the social business data may be a graph and\/or chart showing business connections between employees, such as, for instance, a degree of connection between the employees (e.g., through one or more known business contacts). The illustrated text analysis , in some implementations, may identify business data located in documents or other data objects through, for instance, a keyword search or metadata search of the text in the documents. The illustrated feed services , in some implementations, may provide business data through one or more web feeds to the web client  and\/or web server  (e.g., RSS feeds).","The illustrated consumption channels  include a mobile channel and one or more feed clients . Typically, the consumption channels  may also provide business data (e.g., semantically and\/or socially relevant business data) to at least one of the web client , the web server , and\/or in-memory computing engine . For instance, the illustrated mobile channel , in some implementations, may provide business to the web client  and\/or web server  from one or more mobile channels to present to the business user through one or more workspace modules of the contextual workspace.","The illustrated feed clients , in some implementations, may include, for example, a mail client, which may provide business data to at least one of the web client , the web server , and\/or in-memory computing engine  through one or more electronic communications.","The illustrated external content providers  include one or more UI applications, such as a business suite app , a business intelligence app , and a social gadget app . Typically, the external content providers  provide for a number of UI applications that may be interfaced by a user, e.g., through the web client  or otherwise. The business suite app , for example, may be business applications that provide integration of information and processes, collaboration, industry-specific functionality, and scalability. For instance, the business suite app may include one or more constituents, such as CRM (Customer Relationship Management), ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), PLM (Product Lifecycle Management), SCM (Supply Chain Management), and\/or SRM (Supplier Relationship Management). The business intelligence app , for example, may provide for a UI application that may be used in identifying and extracting business data (e.g., ETL) and analyzing such business data. The business data may include, for example, sales revenue, profits, and\/or costs broken down by products and\/or departments. In some aspects, the business intelligence app may provide for historical, current, and\/or predictive views of business operations, such as reporting, online analytical processing, analytics, data mining, process mining, business performance management, benchmarking, text mining, and\/or predictive analytics. In some aspects, the business intelligence app may also provide for layers including an ETL layer (e.g., responsible for extracting data from a specific source, applying transformation rules, and loading it into a data warehouse); the data warehouse (e.g., responsible for storing the information in various types of structures); reporting (e.g., responsible for accessing the information in the data warehouse and presenting it in a user-friendly manner to the business user); and a planning and analysis layer (e.g., provides capabilities for the user to run simulations and perform tasks such as budget calculations). The illustrated social gadget app , for example, may include games, social news feeds and other UI apps.","The illustrated data sources  include an in-memory database , a gateway , one or more feeds , and one or more documents . Typically, the data sources  may provide data, such as business data, to the illustrated web client  and\/or web server  that may be manipulated to, for instance, provide suggestions of additional contextual data, provide suggestions of semantically-related data, and\/or provide other suggestions, alerts, or events. For example, the in-memory database may store and\/or reference one or more data cubes containing business data. The gateway may, for example, be a front-end server to the business suite app  and expose business suite services in an open protocol format. The feeds , for instance, may provide business and\/or social data through social updates, for example, Twitter, Facebook, RSS feed\/channels, and\/or other feed sources or channels. The documents , for instance, may be any number of documents stored in or referenced by a document store (i.e., in a relational database or otherwise).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-C","FIG. 4A","FIGS. 1"],"b":["400","425","450","405","410","415","420","2","2","3"]},"Turning to , the illustrated virtual contextual workspaces  includes workspace modules , , , and . The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a bar graph, e.g., of travel spending by time period. The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a bar graph, e.g., of third party spending finances by time period. The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a list of alert feeds, e.g., of alerts related to travel spending and\/or travel requests of a business enterprise. The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a pie graph, e.g., of development spending of an organizational unit of the enterprise during a specific time duration.","As illustrated, one or more of the workspace modules , , , and  may be semantically related. In other words, one or more of the workspace modules , , , and  may display and\/or expose business data that is related by some specific context. For instance, semantically related data may be arranged in the workspace modules , , , and  according to how the business user works on the contextual workspace  (e.g., how the user puts things together (according to his\/her expertise)). While the user may not know all the available data, there may be a context to the workspace  that he\/she understands. This context, for instance, could be keywords, metadata, dimensions\/slices of data, and otherwise. While other users (even other users within the same business enterprise, same organization unit, or otherwise) may not understand the context of the workspace , the user understands the desired context. The user, however, likely does not know (or is not aware of) all of the data that is available for this context.","Turning to , the illustrated virtual contextual workspaces  includes workspace modules , , , and . The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a table, e.g., of entries for travel spending by employee. The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including insights, e.g., of an enterprise employee and\/or user of the contextual workspace  providing business insights related to the workspace. For example, module  shows insights related to business employee travel spending and financial data. The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a list of links, e.g., of websites (external and internal), contact names, and\/or forms, relevant to the contextual workspace . The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a bar graph, e.g., of spent travel budget for the enterprise during a specific time duration.","Turning to , the illustrated virtual contextual workspaces  includes workspace modules , , , and . The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a pie graph, e.g., of travel spending by vendor, along with a suggestion  to merge different types of documents (here, invoices and purchase orders). The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including insights, e.g., of websites (external and internal) that may provide some contextually relevant data for the workspace . The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a bar graph, e.g., of travel spending by entity (here a third party). The illustrated workspace module , for example, shows a module including a table, e.g., of entries for vendor contact information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","100","100","100"]},"Method  includes two high processes: (1) assigning an annotation to aggregated data from steps  to ; and (2) presenting the annotation to a different user aggregating associated data. At step , a first virtual workplace is generated. At step , a selection for a measure, dimension or filter is received. For example, the user may select a measure and filter or a dimension and filter to apply to data. Next, at step , the first data is aggregated based on the selection of the measure, dimension and\/or filter. The first aggregated is presented through the first virtual workplace at step . In connection with the presented data, a request to annotate the first aggregated data is received at step . At step , the annotation is assigned to the first aggregated data.","As for presenting the annotation, at step , a second virtual workplace is generated. At step , a selection of at least one of a measure, dimension, or filter is received. Next, at step , second data is aggregated in accordance with the measure, dimension, and\/or filter. The second aggregated data is presented in the second virtual workplace at step . If the second aggregated data is semantically proximate the first aggregated data, then, at step , the annotation is presented in the second virtual workplace. If the data is not semantically proximate, execution ends.","A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
