---
title: Methods, apparatuses and computer program products for providing active echo-cancellation for systems combining voice communication and synchronous audio content
abstract: An apparatus for removing an echo(es) from audio content may include a processor and memory storing executable computer code causing the apparatus to at least perform operations including receiving combined audio content including voice data associated with speech of users in a call and information including audio data provided to the users. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to remove a first echo of a first item of voice data associated with a user(s), from the combined audio content, based in part on a prior detection of the first item of voice data. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to remove a second echo of the audio data, from the combined audio content, based in part on a previous detection of the audio data or a previous detection of data corresponding to the audio data. Corresponding methods and computer program products are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873741&OS=08873741&RS=08873741
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08873741
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20110630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["An example embodiment of the present invention relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly, relates to a method, apparatus and computer program product for removing echo from voice and audio communications.","The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks, television networks, and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion, fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands, while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.","Current and future networking technologies continue to facilitate ease of information transfer and convenience to users. Due to the now ubiquitous nature of electronic communication devices, people of all ages and education levels are utilizing electronic devices to communicate with other individuals or contacts, receive services and\/or share information, media and other content. One area in which there is a demand to increase ease of information transfer relates to provision of audio data via communication devices.","At present, echo in voice communications across telephones may exist. Currently, echo cancellation, may be performed to remove echo from a voice communication in order to improve voice (e.g., voices of individuals on a call) quality on a telephone call. In addition to improving subjective quality, echo cancellation may increase the capacity achieved through silence suppression by preventing echo from traveling across a network.","Existing echo cancellation systems generally involve first recognizing the originally transmitted voice signal associated with individuals on a call that typically re-appears, in the transmitted or received signal. Once the echo is recognized, it may be removed by subtracting it from the transmitted or received voice signal associated with the voices of the individuals on a call.","Although conventional systems may remove echo associated with voices of individuals on a call, conventional systems typically may not remove echo caused by other audio sources. For instance, conventional systems may not perform audio echo cancellation for systems that combine voice communication in addition to streamed audio content. At present, undesirable echo may occur, for example, in collaboration systems that may combine video conferencing and online streaming of audio or videos.","For instance, two users who are at different locations may wish to watch a video or listen to an audio track together while they are having a voice or video conference. If the users are using a speakerphone feature, a communication channel may create an echo or feedback loop because a user's microphone may typically sense the audio output of a speaker and typically redirects the audio back to the sender.","In an instance in which two or more users who are having a voice or video chat and are also listening to streaming audio broadcast such as, for example, a web feed of a Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG)-2 Audio Layer III (MP3) file or an audio track (e.g., YouTube\u2122 video) or the like, the users may typically hear the audio broadcast twice, for example, once from their local audio stream and once from the remote voice feed. The resulting \u201cecho\u201d typically may result in poor audio quality and may create an undesirable user experience.","Many existing collaboration systems that combine voice communication and audio sharing typically do not include improved echo cancellation, which may generally lead to echo of the shared audio content.","In view of the foregoing drawbacks, it may be beneficial to provide a mechanism for removing the echo associated with combined voice and audio data in an efficient and reliable manner.","A method, apparatus and computer program product are therefore provided for enabling provision of an efficient and reliable manner of removing echo from voice data and other audio content. In this regard, an example embodiment may perform audio echo cancellation for systems that combine voice communication and streamed audio content. For example, collaboration systems that may combine video conferencing and online streaming audio or videos (e.g., YouTube\u2122, Hulu\u2122, etc.).","As such, an example embodiment may provide an improved echo cancellation system for use in systems which may combine synchronous voice communication and streaming audio. In this regard, an example embodiment may cancel echo of both the voice and audio streams by subtracting or removing both the voice and the audio data (e.g., audio tracks) from a microphone input before the microphone input is transmitted to a remote user.","In one example embodiment, a method for removing one or more echoes from audio content is provided. The method may include receiving combined audio content including items of voice data associated with speech content of one or more users participating in a call. The received combined audio content may also include information including audio data being provided to the users during the call. The method may further include removing a first echo associated with a first item of the voice data associated with one of the users, from the combined audio content. The first echo may be removed based in part on a prior detection of the first item of the voice data. The method may further include removing a second echo associated with the audio data, from the combined audio content. The second echo may be removed based in part on a previous detection of the audio data or a previous detection of data that corresponds to the audio data.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus for removing one or more echoes from audio content is provided. The apparatus may include a processor and memory including computer program code. The memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the processor, cause the apparatus to at least perform operations including receiving combined audio content including items of voice data associated with speech content of one or more users participating in a call. The received combined audio content may also include information including audio data being provided to the users during the call. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to remove a first echo associated with a first item of the voice data associated with one of the users, from the combined audio content. The first echo may be removed based in part on a prior detection of the first item of the voice data. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to remove a second echo associated with the audio data, from the combined audio content. The second echo may be removed based in part on a previous detection of the audio data or a previous detection of data that corresponds to the audio data.","In another example embodiment, a computer program product for removing one or more echoes from audio content is provided. The computer program product includes at least one computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code portions stored therein. The computer-executable program code instructions may include program code instructions configured to facilitate receipt of combined audio content including items of voice data associated with speech content of one or more users participating in a call. The received combined audio content may also include information including audio data being provided to the users during the call. The program code instructions may also be configured to remove a first echo associated with a first item of the voice data associated with one of the users, from the combined audio content. The first echo may be removed based in part on a prior detection of the first item of the voice data. The program code instructions may also be configured to remove a second echo associated with the audio data, from the combined audio content. The second echo may be removed based in part on a previous detection of the audio data or a previous detection of data that corresponds to the audio data.","Some example embodiments may provide a better user experience by combining voice communications and streaming audio to provide a clean non-echoing audio experience via communication devices. As such, device users may enjoy improved capabilities with respect to audio quality.","Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. As used herein, the terms \u201cdata,\u201d \u201ccontent,\u201d \u201cinformation\u201d and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted, received and\/or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus, use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.","Additionally, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 refers to (a) hardware-only circuit implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and\/or digital circuitry); (b) combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and\/or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c) circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of \u2018circuitry\u2019 applies to all uses of this term herein, including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 also includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and\/or portion(s) thereof and accompanying software and\/or firmware. As another example, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 as used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a cellular network device, other network device, and\/or other computing device.","As defined herein a \u201ccomputer-readable storage medium,\u201d which refers to a non-transitory, physical storage medium (e.g., volatile or non-volatile memory device), can be differentiated from a \u201ccomputer-readable transmission medium,\u201d which refers to an electromagnetic signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","20","30","25","10","20","25"]},"The network  may include a collection of various different nodes (of which the second and third communication devices  and  may be examples), devices or functions that may be in communication with each other via corresponding wired and\/or wireless interfaces. As such, the illustration of  should be understood to be an example of a broad view of certain elements of the system and not an all inclusive or detailed view of the system or the network . According to some example embodiments, the network  may be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of First-Generation (1G), Second-Generation (2G), 2.5G, Third-Generation (3G), 3.5G, 3.9G, Fourth-Generation (4G) mobile communication protocols, Long Term Evolution (LTE) or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), Self Optimizing\/Organizing Network (SON) intra-LTE, inter-Radio Access Technology (RAT) Network and\/or the like. According to some example embodiments, the network  may be a point-to-point (P2P) network.","One or more communication terminals such as the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be in communication with each other via the network  and each may include an antenna or antennas for transmitting signals to and for receiving signals from one or more base sites. The base sites could be, for example one or more base stations (BS) that is a part of one or more cellular or mobile networks or one or more access points (APs) that may be coupled to a data network, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), a Wi-Fi Network, a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), and\/or a Wide Area Network (WAN), such as the Internet. In turn, other devices such as processing elements (for example, personal computers, server computers or the like) may be coupled to the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  via the network . By directly or indirectly connecting the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  (and\/or other devices) to the network , the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the other devices or each other. For example, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  as well as other devices may communicate according to numerous communication protocols including Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and\/or the like, to thereby carry out various communication or other functions of the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and , respectively.","Furthermore the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may communicate in accordance with, for example, Radio Frequency (RF), Cellular, Near Field Communication (NFC), Bluetooth (BT), Infrared (IR) or any of a number of different wireline or wireless communication techniques, including Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless LAN (WLAN), Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Ultra-Wide Band (UWB), Wibree techniques and\/or the like. As such, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the network  and each other by any of numerous different access mechanisms. For example, mobile access mechanisms such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA), CDMA2000, Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and\/or the like may be supported as well as wireless access mechanisms such as WLAN, WiMAX, and\/or the like and fixed access mechanisms such as Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), cable modems, Ethernet and\/or the like.","According to some example embodiments, the first communication device (for example, the mobile terminal ) may be a mobile communication device such as, for example, a wireless telephone or other devices such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), mobile computing device, camera, video recorder, audio\/video player, positioning device, game device, television device, radio device, or various other like devices or combinations thereof. The second communication device  and the third communication device  may be mobile or fixed communication devices. However, in one example, the second communication device  and the third communication device  may be servers, remote computers or terminals such as personal computers (PCs) or laptop computers.","According to some example embodiments, the network  may be an ad hoc or distributed network arranged to be a smart space. Thus, devices may enter and\/or leave the network  and the devices of the network  may be capable of adjusting operations based on the entrance and\/or exit of other devices to account for the addition or subtraction of respective devices or nodes and their corresponding capabilities.","According to some example embodiments, the mobile terminal as well as the second and third communication devices  and  may employ an apparatus (for example, apparatus of ) capable of functioning according to example embodiments of the invention. In some example embodiments, the second communication device  may be an electronic device (e.g., electronic device  of ) and the third communication device  may be a network device (e.g., network device  of ), as described more fully below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["50","50","10","20","25","50","30","50","10"]},"Referring now to , the apparatus  may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor , a user interface , a communication interface , a memory device , a display , one or more speakers  (also referred to herein as speaker(s) ), one or more microphones  (also referred to herein as microphone(s) ), and an audio echo cancellation module .","According to some example embodiments, the display  may be a touch screen display. The memory device  may include, for example, volatile and\/or non-volatile memory. For example, the memory device  may be an electronic storage device (for example, a computer readable storage medium) comprising gates configured to store data (for example, bits) that may be retrievable by a machine (for example, a computing device like processor ). In some embodiments, the memory device  may be a tangible memory device that is not transitory. The memory device  may be configured to store information (for example, voice data (e.g., speech data), audio data, video data, etc.), data, files, applications, instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments of the invention. For example, the memory device  could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively, the memory device  could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . As yet another alternative, the memory device  may be one of a plurality of databases that store information and\/or media content (for example, pictures (e.g., images), videos, audio data, etc.).","The apparatus  may, according to some example embodiments, be a mobile terminal (for example, mobile terminal ) or a fixed communication device or computing device configured to employ example embodiments of the invention. According to some example embodiments, the apparatus  may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words, the apparatus  may comprise one or more physical packages (for example, chips) including materials, components and\/or wires on a structural assembly (for example, a baseboard). The structural assembly may provide physical strength, conservation of size, and\/or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. The apparatus  may therefore, in some cases, be configured to implement embodiments of the invention on a single chip or as a single \u201csystem on a chip.\u201d As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein. Additionally or alternatively, the chip or chipset may constitute means for enabling user interface navigation with respect to the functionalities and\/or services described herein.","The processor  may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example, the processor  may be embodied as one or more of various processing means such as a coprocessor, microprocessor, a controller, a digital signal processor (DSP), processing circuitry with or without an accompanying DSP, or various other processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), a microcontroller unit (MCU), a hardware accelerator, a special-purpose computer chip, or the like. In some example embodiments, the processor  may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device  or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may represent an entity (for example, physically embodied in circuitry) capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform the algorithms and operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However, in some cases, the processor  may be a processor of a specific device (for example, a mobile terminal or network device) adapted for employing embodiments of the invention by further configuration of the processor  by instructions for performing the algorithms and operations described herein. The processor  may include, among other things, a clock, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .","In some example embodiments, the processor  may be configured to operate a connectivity program, such as a browser, Web browser or the like. In this regard, the connectivity program may enable the apparatus  to transmit and receive Web content, such as for example location-based content or any other suitable content, according to a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), for example.","The communication interface  may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware, a computer program product, or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and\/or transmit data from\/to a network and\/or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard, the communication interface  may include, for example, an antenna (or multiple antennas) and supporting hardware and\/or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network (for example, network ). In fixed environments, the communication interface  may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such, the communication interface  may include a communication modem and\/or other hardware\/software for supporting communication via cable, digital subscriber line (DSL), universal serial bus (USB), Ethernet or other mechanisms.","The user interface  may be in communication with the processor  to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface  and\/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical or other output to the user. As such, the user interface  may include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, a display, a touch screen, a microphone, a speaker, or other input\/output mechanisms. In some example embodiments in which the apparatus is embodied as a server or some other network devices, the user interface  may be limited, remotely located, or eliminated. The processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface, such as, for example, a speaker, ringer, microphone, display, and\/or the like. The processor  and\/or user interface circuitry comprising the processor  may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (for example, software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor  (for example, memory device , and\/or the like).","In some example embodiments, the processor  may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the audio echo cancellation module . The audio echo cancellation module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the audio echo cancellation module , as described below. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (for example, the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means.","The audio echo cancellation module  may include one or more echo cancellers  (also referred to herein as echo canceller(s) ) and an audio mixer . The echo canceller(s)  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control) configured to perform the corresponding functions of the echo canceller(s) , as described herein. The echo canceller(s)  may be configured to reduce or remove the echo identified on a communication channel. In an example embodiment, the echo canceller(s)  may remove or subtract a known echo from audio data (e.g., voice data (e.g., a voice signal(s)), streamed audio data, etc.). The audio mixer  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control) configured to perform the corresponding functions of the audio mixer , as described herein. In an example embodiment, the audio mixer  may combine a voice communication (e.g., voice signals corresponding to voices of one or more individuals\/users) and streamed or broadcast audio. In addition, the audio mixer  may output the combined audio to a speaker(s) (e.g., speaker(s) ).","The audio echo cancellation module  may perform audio echo cancellation by removing or subtracting one or more known or previously detected audio signals from voice communications as well as from audio content that may be broadcast or streamed (e.g., synchronously), as described more fully below. In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may combine synchronous voice communications and broadcast\/streaming audio data. As such, the audio echo cancellation module  may cancel the echo of both the voice and audio streams by subtracting or removing the echo of both the voice and the audio data (e.g., audio tracks) from an input of the microphone(s)  before the microphone(s)  transmits audio data to a user (e.g., a remote user (e.g., a user receiving the transmitted audio)), as described more fully below. In this manner, the audio echo cancellation module  may combine voice communications and streaming\/broadcast audio data and may provide a non-echoing audio experience for users.","Referring now to , a block diagram of an example embodiment of an electronic device is provided. As shown in , the electronic device  (e.g., a network device (e.g., a server), a personal computer, a laptop computer, a wireless telephone, a mobile phone, etc.) generally includes a processor  and an associated memory . The memory  may comprise volatile and\/or non-volatile memory, and may store content, data and\/or the like. The memory  may store client applications, instructions, and\/or the like for the processor  to perform the various operations of the network entity.","The processor  may also be connected to at least one communication interface  or other means for displaying, transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like. The user input interface  may comprise any of a number of devices allowing the network entity to receive data from a user, such as a keypad, a touch display , a joystick or other input device. In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user input interface. The processor and\/or user interface circuitry of the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor (e.g., volatile memory, non-volatile memory, and\/or the like). The electronic device  may include at least one speaker(s)  and at least one microphone(s) . In an example embodiment, the processor  may facilitate one or more communications with one or more devices. The communications may include, but are not limited, to one or more telephone calls. Additionally, the processor  may facilitate communications with one or more network devices (e.g., network device  of  (e.g., a server). In this regard, the processor  may receive media data (e.g., audio content and\/or video data) from one or more of the network devices.","Referring now to , a block diagram of an example embodiment of a network device is provided. As shown in , the network device  (e.g., a server) may include a processor  and a memory . The memory  may comprise volatile and\/or non-volatile memory, and may store content, data and\/or the like. The memory  may store client applications, instructions, and\/or the like for the processor  to perform the various operations of the network entity.","The processor  may also be connected to at least one communication interface  or other means for displaying, transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like. The user input interface  may comprise any of a number of devices allowing the network entity to receive data from a user, such as a keypad, a touch display, a joystick or other input device. In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user input interface. The processor and\/or user interface circuitry of the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor (e.g., volatile memory, non-volatile memory, and\/or the like). In an example embodiment, the processor  may facilitate provision of media data to one or more devices (e.g., apparatus , electronic device , etc.). In this regard, the processor  may stream or broadcast media data (e.g., audio data, video data, etc.) to the devices (e.g., apparatus , electronic device ).","Referring now to , a system for removing echo from audio data according to an example embodiment is provided. The system  may include communication devices  and  (e.g., apparatuses ) and terminal devices ,  (e.g., electronic devices ). Additionally, the system  may include a network entity  (e.g., network device ). Although two communication devices , , two terminal devices ,  and one network entity  are shown in system  of , it should be pointed out that any suitable number of communication devices , , terminal devices ,  and network entities  may be included in system  of  without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","In the example embodiment of , one or more of the communication devices ,  may be in communication with one or more of the terminal devices ,  via a call (e.g., telephone call, teleconference call, video conference call, etc.). In this regard, the voices of the users participating in the call may be output by the speakers (e.g., speaker(s) , speaker(s) ). Additionally, during the call, the communication devices ,  and the terminal devices ,  participating in the call may request media data (e.g., a YouTube\u2122 video, a Hulu\u2122 video, MP3 data, etc.) from the network entity . In an alternative example embodiment, one or more of the communication devices ,  and\/or the terminal devices ,  may have the media data previously stored in a memory device (e.g., memory device , memory ) instead of being received from the network entity . In response, the network entity  may send the requested media data to the devices. For example, the network entity  may send the communication devices ,  and the terminal devices ,  participating in the call the media data by broadcasting the media data or streaming the media data. In one example embodiment, the media data may include audio data and\/or corresponding video data.","Upon receipt of the media data, the media data may be executed by a processor (e.g., processor , processor ). In this regard, in this example embodiment, the communication devices and terminal devices participating in the call may enable output of the corresponding audio of the media data via a speaker(s). In addition, in an instance in which the media data also includes video data, a processor (e.g., processor , processor ) may enable display of the corresponding video data via a display device (e.g., display , display ).","The audio of the media data that may be output via a speaker and the voice data associated with speech data, for example, of the users participating in the call may cause or create one or more echoes. In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may remove or cancel the echoes, as described more fully below with respect to ,  and , for example. In this regard, the example embodiments may provide a better audio experience for users. In some example embodiment, the devices of the systems of ,  and  may include an application programming interface (API) to enable media data received from a network device to be synchronized when executed or played by a processor (e.g., processor , processor ). In this manner, the audio data of the received media data (and\/or video data) may be played at substantially the same time based in part on execution of the API by a processor.","Referring now to , a system for removing echo according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of , presume that two users are participating in a call (e.g., telephone call, video conference call, etc.) and that each of the users may utilize one of the communications devices ,  to connect the call. Since the users are utilizing the communications devices ,  both devices ,  participating in the call may include audio echo cancellation functionality provided by the audio echo cancellation module . Also, in the example embodiment of , consider that a first user (e.g., user ) of a communication device (e.g., communication device ) corresponds to a remote party at a reception (also referred to herein as RX) side of the system  and a second user  (also referred to herein as local party ) (e.g., user ) of a communication device (e.g., communication device ) is located in front of or nearby a microphone(s) . Presume further that both of the communications devices of users  and  are receiving audio and\/or video from the network entity . For purposes of illustration, and not of limitation, in the example embodiment of  (as well as the example embodiments of ), the audio and\/or video data being received from the network entity  may, but need not, be YouTube\u2122 data. The audio\/video data may be streamed or broadcast from the network entity  (e.g., synchronously) to the communications devices ,  in this example embodiment (for example, via execution by processor  of a synchronization API). The YouTube\u2122 data may relate to the same YouTube\u2122 video being streamed or broadcast to the communication devices , , in this example embodiment.","In the example embodiment of , at the receiving (RX) side of the system , the audio echo cancellation module  may detect a voice (also referred to herein as Voice (Remote)) of the remote party (e.g., user ), on a communication channel , participating in the call. In this example embodiment, since the communication device  utilized by the remote party may have echo cancellation functionality, the Youtube\u2122 audio data being played (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote)), (for example via processor  of the communication device ) on behalf of the remote party may be canceled out by the audio echo cancellation module . As such, the canceled out\/removed Youtube\u2122 audio data being played on behalf of the remote party is not shown in .","The audio echo cancellation module  may also detect audio of a YouTube\u2122 video (also referred to herein as Youtube\u2122 (Local)), on a communication channel , being played by the local party  (e.g., user ). In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may provide the voice data of the remote party (e.g., Voice (Remote)) and the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data to the audio mixer . The audio mixer  may combine the Voice (Remote) data and the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data and may provide or output the combined audio data such as, for example, the Voice (Remote) data with the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data to a speaker(s) .","The speaker(s)  may output or play the combined audio data which may be captured at the input of microphone(s)  associated with the local party  (e.g., user ). As such, the microphone(s)  may detect the combined audio data (e.g., Voice (Remote) and Youtube\u2122 (Local)) as well as the voice (also referred to herein as Voice (Local)) of the local party  who may be speaking into the microphone(s) . In this example embodiment, the audio echo cancellation module  may determine that at the input of the microphone(s)  that one or more echoes may be present in the audio data. For example, the audio echo cancellation module  may detect that there is echo associated with the voice of the remote party (e.g., Voice (Remote)) and the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data (for example, since the local party  may already hear the YouTube\u2122 audio data being played locally). As such, the audio echo cancellation module  may utilize the previous detections of the known Voice (Remote) data via communication channel  and the known Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data previously detected via communication channel  to cancel this corresponding audio content from the audio data at the input of the microphone(s) .","For instance, based on the previous detection of the known voice data of the remote party such as, for example, Voice (Remote) data, the audio echo cancellation module  may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to subtract the known Voice (Remote) data from the Voice (Remote) data of the audio data at the microphone(s) . As such, the local party's voice (e.g., Voice (Local)) and Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data may remain at the microphone(s) . However, in response to removing the Voice (Remote) data from the audio data at the microphone(s) , the audio echo cancellation module  may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to subtract the known Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data previously detected via communication channel . In this manner, the audio echo cancellation module  may determine that the local party's  voice remains at the microphone(s)  and the microphone(s)  may transmit (also referred to herein as TX) the local party's  voice (e.g., Voice (Local) to the remote party at the receiving (RX) side of the system . In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may enable cancellation of an echo associated with known voice data of a remote party and known Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data.","Referring now to , a system for removing echo according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of , presume that two users are participating in a call (e.g., telephone call, video conference call, etc.) and that each of the users may utilize one of the communications devices ,  to connect the call. By utilizing the communications devices ,  both communication devices ,  participating in the call may include audio echo cancellation functionality provided by the audio echo cancellation module . In addition, in the example embodiment of , consider that a first user (e.g., user ) of a communication device (e.g., communication device ) relates to a remote party at a reception (RX) side of the system  and a second user  (e.g., local party ) (e.g., user ) of a communication device (e.g., communication device ) is located in front of or nearby a microphone(s) . Consider further that both of the communications devices of users  and  may be receiving audio and\/or video such as, for example, Youtube\u2122 data from the network entity . The audio\/video data may be streamed or broadcast from the network entity  (e.g., synchronously) to the communications devices ,  in this example embodiment (for example, via execution by processor  of a synchronization API). The YouTube\u2122 data may relate to the same YouTube\u2122 video being streamed or broadcast to the communication devices , , in this example embodiment.","At the receiving (RX) side of the system , the audio echo cancellation module  may detect a voice (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party (e.g., user ), on a communication channel , participating in the call. Additionally, the audio echo cancellation module  may detect, via communication channel , audio of a YouTube\u2122 video (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data (also referred to herein as Youtube\u2122 (Remote)) being played on behalf of the remote party. As such, in the example of , voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party and Youtube\u2122 audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 Remote) being played remotely on behalf of the remote party are detected via the communication channel , by the audio cancellation module . Additionally, the audio echo cancellation module  may detect Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data played on behalf of the local party  based on a detection of the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data on communication channel . The audio echo cancellation module  may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to subtract the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data from the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data. As such, the echo cancel device  may remove the echo associated with the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data and may output voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote) data) of the remote party who may be speaking during the call to the audio mixer .","The audio mixer  may also receive the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data via communication channel . In this regard, the audio mixer  may combine the Voice (Remote) data with the Youtube\u2122 (Local) data. In response to combining the Voice (Remote) data with the Youtube\u2122 (Local) data, the audio mixer  may output combined data to the speaker(s)  which may play the combined audio data and may enable an input of the microphones(s)  to capture the combined audio data. In addition, the microphone(s)  may capture voice data of the local party  (e.g., Voice (Local)) who may be speaking during the call. As such, voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party, voice data (e.g., Voice (Local)) of the local party and Youtube\u2122 audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 Local) being played on behalf of the local party , for example, by a communication device , may be detected at the input of the microphone(s) .","As such, the audio echo cancellation module  may determine that there is echo associated with the remote party's voice (e.g., Voice (Remote)) and may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to remove the echo associated with the remote party's voice. In this regard, the echo cancel device  may subtract the known voice data of the remote party based on the previous detection of the remote party's voice (e.g., Voice (Remote)) output from echo cancel device , for example, from the voice data of the remote party detected in the audio data at the microphone(s) . As such, the echo cancel device  and\/or the microphone(s)  may enable output or transmission (TX) of the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data and the voice (e.g., Voice (Local)) of the local party to the remote party at the receiving (RX) side.","Referring now to , a system for removing echo according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of , presume that two users are participating in a call (e.g., telephone call, video conference call, etc.) and that one of the users may utilize one of the communications devices ,  to connect the call and the other user may utilize a terminal device ,  (e.g., electronic device ) to connect the call. As such, one of the users may be utilizing a device (e.g., the user utilizing a communication device ) with audio echo cancellation functionality provided by the audio echo cancellation module . In this regard, in the example embodiment of , the audio echo cancellation module  of the communication device (e.g., communication device ) may account for and remove echo on behalf of both users participating in the call.","In the example embodiment of , consider that the first user (e.g., user ) corresponds to a remote party\/user at a reception (RX) side of the system  which may be utilizing a terminal device  (e.g., electronic device ). The terminal device  may not include an audio echo cancellation module  to provide echo cancellation. Also, in the example embodiment of , presume that a second user  (e.g., local party ) (e.g., user ) may be located in front of or nearby a microphone(s)  and may be utilizing a communication device such as, for example, communication device . Presume further that the terminal device  and the communication device  may be receiving audio and\/or video from the network entity . For purposes of illustration, and not of limitation, the audio and\/or video data being received from the network entity  may, but need not, be YouTube\u2122 data, which may be streamed or broadcast from the network entity  synchronously to the communication device  and the terminal device . The YouTube\u2122 data may relate to the same YouTube\u2122 video being streamed or broadcast to the communication device  and the terminal device . In the example embodiment of , the communication device  and the terminal device  may receive the data (e.g., synchronously) from the network entity  by execution (for example, via a processor  and\/or processor ) of a synchronization API.","At the reception (RX) side, in the example embodiment of , voice data of a remote party (e.g., Voice (Remote)) who may be speaking on the call, and Youtube\u2122 data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data) being played on behalf of the remote party, for example by the terminal device  of the remote party may be detected by the audio echo cancellation module  on communication channel . Additionally, the Youtube\u2122 data detected as being played, via communication device , on behalf of the local party  may be detected, by the audio echo cancellation module , on communication channel . The audio echo cancellation module  may enable or instruct the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to subtract the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data from the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data that was detected on communication channel  to obtain audio data corresponding to voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party. The echo cancel device  may output the voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party to the audio mixer . The Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data detected on communication channel, by the audio echo detection module , may be received by the audio mixer . In this regard, the audio mixer  may combine the voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party with the Youtube\u2122 data (e.g., Youtube (Local)) of the local party  and the audio mixer  may output this combined audio data to the speaker(s) . The speaker(s)  may play or output this combined audio data and the microphone(s)  may capture the combined audio data at its input.","In addition, the microphone(s)  may capture a voice of the local party (e.g., Voice (Local)) who may be speaking on the call (e.g., telephone call, video conference call, etc.). As such, voice data of the remote party (e.g., Voice (Remote)), Youtube\u2122 data played on behalf of the local party  (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)) and voice data of the local party (e.g., Voice (Local)) may be captured at the input of the microphone(s) . In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may detect echo at the input of the microphone(s) . For instance, since the local party , may likely hear the voice of the remote party via a speaker and the Youtube\u2122 audio data being played locally, the Voice (Remote) data and the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data at the input of the microphone(s)  may cause echo. As such, the audio echo cancellation module  may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to utilize the previously detected known voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party to subtract out the voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party from the input of the microphone(s) . In response to subtracting out the voice data of the remote party, the audio echo cancellation module  may instruct or enable the echo cancel device  (e.g., echo canceller(s) ) to utilize the previously detected known Youtube\u2122 audio data, detected on communication channel , played on behalf of the local party  to subtract out the Youtube\u2122 data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)) of the local party detected at the input of the microphone(s) . As such, the echo cancel device  may output the voice data (e.g., Voice (Local)) of the local party , which may enable the microphone(s)  to transmit the voice data (e.g., Voice (Local)) of the local party  to the remote party at the reception (RX) side of the system .","By enabling the echo cancel device  to subtract out the voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the remote party and the echo cancel device  to subtract out the Youtube\u2122 audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)) being played on behalf of the local party , the audio echo cancellation module  may enable the microphone(s)  to output or transmit the voice data (e.g., Voice (Local)) of the local party  to the remote party at the reception side (RX). In this regard, the remote party may receive audio data that does not include (or is free from inclusion of) one or more echoes. This may be beneficial since the terminal device  may not include an audio echo cancellation module , in this example embodiment of .","In some example embodiments of ,  and , the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data may be slightly delayed with respect to the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data in order for the audio echo cancellation module  to perform echo cancellation. In other example embodiments, the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data may be received ahead of the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data (for example, in an instance which a network connection (e.g., Internet connection) of a device (e.g., communication device ) of the local party is slower than the network connection of a device of the remote party).","In some other alternative example embodiments, in instances in which a remote user's audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote)) is received\/played before a local user's (e.g., local party ) audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)), the audio echo cancellation module  may search for the local audio track forward in a buffer and may remove the local audio track from an incoming voice stream with a negative offset, as described more fully below.","For purposes of illustration and not of limitation, in an instance in which Youtube\u2122 (Local) may be received or played later than Youtube\u2122 (Remote) is received or played, some example embodiments may utilize a buffer (e.g., an audio buffer stored in a memory device (e.g., memory device  of ) for storage of audio data. In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may search forward in the buffer and may identify incoming audio data by examining audio data in the buffer, but which may not have been played yet. In this regard, the audio echo cancellation module  may search forward in the buffer for a local audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data) received\/played after receipt\/play of a remote audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote)) and may remove the local audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data) from an incoming audio stream, since in this example embodiment the remote audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote)) may be received or played prior to the local audio track (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)).","In instances in which the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data may be received, by a communication device, ahead of the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data, the audio echo cancellation module  may mute the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data and play the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data. As such, the audio echo cancellation module  may provide a speaker (e.g., speaker(s) ) with voice data of a remote party (e.g., Voice (Remote)) and\/or Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data, instead of Voice (Remote) and\/or Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data. In this regard, in some example embodiments, instances in which the remote (e.g., receiving (RX)) side of a system may be ahead of a local side of a system (e.g., system ), the audio echo cancellation module  may ignore or mute the Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data. This approach may be utilized by the audio echo cancellation module  because the audio echo cancellation module  may be unable to remove or cancel out the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data since the audio echo cancellation module  may not have yet received the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio data. In other words, the audio cancellation module  may need to know the Youtube\u2122 (Remote) audio to subtract from the voice data (e.g., Voice (Remote)) and Youtube\u2122 audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local) audio data).","Referring now to  a flowchart for removing one or more echoes from audio data according to an example embodiment is provided. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., audio echo cancellation module ) may detect receipt of combined audio content including items of voice data (e.g., voice data of one or more users speaking) associated with speech content of one or more users (e.g., a local party, a remote party, etc.) participating in a call (e.g., a telephone call, video conference call, etc.). The combined audio content may also include information including audio data (e.g., YouTube\u2122 data, Hulu\u2122 data, MP3 data, etc.) being provided to the users during the call. The information including the audio data may be provided via a stream or broadcast (for example, from network entity ).","At operation , an apparatus (e.g., audio echo cancellation module ) may remove a first echo associated with a first item (e.g., Voice (Remote) data, etc.) of voice data associated with one of the users, from the combined audio content. The removal of the first echo may be based in part on a prior detection of the first item (e.g., Voice (Remote)) of the voice data. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., audio echo cancellation module ) may remove a second echo (e.g., an echo associated with YouTube\u2122 data, Hulu\u2122 data, MP3 data, etc.) associated with the audio data, from the combined audio content, based in part on a previous detection of the audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)) or a previous detection of data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Remote)) that corresponds to the audio data (e.g., Youtube\u2122 (Local)).","It should be pointed out that  is a flowchart of a system, method and computer program product according to some example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, can be implemented by various means, such as hardware, firmware, and\/or a computer program product including one or more computer program instructions. For example, one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. In this regard, in some example embodiments, the computer program instructions which embody the procedures described above are stored by a memory device (for example, memory device , memory , memory ) and executed by a processor (for example, processor , processor , processor , audio echo cancellation module ). As will be appreciated, any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus (for example, hardware) to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus cause the functions specified in the flowchart blocks to be implemented. In some example embodiments, the computer program instructions are stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function(s) specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus implement the functions specified in the flowchart blocks.","Accordingly, blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","In some example embodiments, an apparatus for performing the method of  above may comprise a processor (for example, the processor , the processor , processor , the audio echo cancellation module ) configured to perform some or each of the operations (-) described above. The processor may, for example, be configured to perform the operations (-) by performing hardware implemented logical functions, executing stored instructions, or executing algorithms for performing each of the operations. Alternatively, the apparatus may comprise means for performing each of the operations described above. In this regard, according to some example embodiments, examples of means for performing operations (-) may comprise, for example, the processor  (for example, as means for performing any of the operations described above), the processor , the processor , the audio echo cancellation module  and\/or a device or circuitry for executing instructions or executing an algorithm for processing information as described above.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and\/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and\/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and\/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
