---
title: Methods and apparatuses for facilitating gesture recognition
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided for facilitating gesture recognition. A method may include constructing a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. The method may further include determining whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix satisfies a predefined threshold. In an instance in which the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may also include eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. In an instance in which the relationship satisfies the predefined threshold, the method may further include determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873841&OS=08873841&RS=08873841
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08873841
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20110421
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Example embodiments of the present invention relate generally to user interface technology and, more particularly, relate to methods and apparatuses for facilitating gesture recognition.","The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands, while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer. Concurrent with the expansion of networking technologies, an expansion in computing power has resulted in development of affordable computing devices capable of taking advantage of services made possible by modern networking technologies. This expansion in computing power has led to a reduction in the size of computing devices and given rise to a new generation of mobile devices that are capable of performing functionality that only a few years ago required processing power that could be provided only by the most advanced desktop computers. Consequently, mobile computing devices having a small form factor have become ubiquitous and are used to access network applications and services by consumers of all socioeconomic backgrounds.","The evolution in the power and affordability of mobile computing devices has included the release of computing devices including enhanced user interface technologies. One such user interface technology is control of a device by making a motion gesture. In this regard, some devices include an accelerometer sensor, gyroscope, or the like that can sense vibrations, orientations, and other motion movement of a mobile device. Some applications use this motion movement as a source of user input in addition to or in lieu of traditional keyboard, touch screen, and voice input. For example, gestures have been proposed for use in remotely controlling a television or media player, navigating user interfaces, launching favorite applications, and playing mobile games. However, to date, implementation of gesture recognition technology and use of gestures as a form of user input has been somewhat limited due to difficulties in recognizing gesture inputs.","Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are herein provided for facilitating gesture recognition. Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products in accordance with various embodiments may provide several advantages to computing devices, computing device users, hardware developers, and application developers. Some example embodiments advantageously improve gesture recognition by reducing the dependence on a device's orientation when the gesture was input. In this regard, some example embodiments determine a rotation matrix between an input gesture and a template gesture and rotate the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture to facilitate recognition of the input gesture. Further, some example embodiments apply one or more filters to eliminate template gestures from further consideration for recognition of an input gesture prior to applying a gesture recognition classifier to determine whether the input gesture matches a respective template gesture. Application of these filters may reduce the rate of false gesture recognition. Further, application of such filters may reduce computational complexity and power consumption required for gesture recognition, as the number of calculations performed may be reduced by filtering out one or more template gestures prior to applying a gesture recognition classifier to determine whether the input gesture matches a respective template gesture. Accordingly, some example embodiments may improve user experience through reduction of false gesture recognition without requiring extensive power consumption or onerous hardware requirements that would be impractical on mobile devices.","In a first example embodiment, a method is provided, which may comprise constructing a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. The method of this example embodiment may further comprise determining whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix satisfies a predefined threshold. In an instance in which the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method of this example embodiment may also comprise eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. In an instance in which the relationship satisfies the predefined threshold, the method of this example embodiment may further comprise determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory storing computer program code is provided. The at least one memory and stored computer program code may be configured, with the at least one processor, to cause the apparatus of this example embodiment to at least construct a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. The at least one memory and stored computer program code may be configured, with the at least one processor, to further cause the apparatus of this example embodiment to determine whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix satisfies a predefined threshold. The at least one memory and stored computer program code may be configured, with the at least one processor, to also cause the apparatus of this example embodiment, in an instance in which the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, to eliminate the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. The at least one memory and stored computer program code may be configured, with the at least one processor, to further cause the apparatus of this example embodiment, in an instance in which the relationship satisfies the predefined threshold, to determine a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix.","In another example embodiment, a computer program product is provided. The computer program product of this example embodiment includes at least one computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program instructions stored therein. The program instructions of this example embodiment may comprise program instructions configured to cause an apparatus to perform a method. The method of this example embodiment may comprise constructing a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. The method of this example embodiment may further comprise determining whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix satisfies a predefined threshold. In an instance in which the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method of this example embodiment may also comprise eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. In an instance in which the relationship satisfies the predefined threshold, the method of this example embodiment may further comprise determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus is provided that may comprise means for constructing a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. The apparatus of this example embodiment may further comprise means for determining whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix satisfies a predefined threshold. The apparatus of this example embodiment may also comprise means for, in an instance in which the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. The apparatus of this example embodiment may further comprise means for, in an instance in which the relationship satisfies the predefined threshold, determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix.","The above summary is provided merely for purposes of summarizing some example embodiments of the invention so as to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the above described example embodiments are merely examples and should not be construed to narrow the scope or spirit of the invention in any way. It will be appreciated that the scope of the invention encompasses many potential embodiments, some of which will be further described below, in addition to those here summarized.","Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.","As used herein, the terms \u201cdata,\u201d \u201ccontent,\u201d \u201cinformation\u201d and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted, received, displayed and\/or stored in accordance with various example embodiments. Thus, use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Further, where a computing device is described herein to receive data from another computing device, it will be appreciated that the data may be received directly from the another computing device or may be received indirectly via one or more intermediary computing devices, such as, for example, one or more servers, relays, routers, network access points, base stations, and\/or the like.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium configured to participate in providing information to a processor, including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium (e.g., non-volatile media, volatile media), and transmission media. Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. Examples of non-transitory computer-readable media include a floppy disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other non-transitory magnetic medium, a compact disc read only memory (CD-ROM), compact disc compact disc-rewritable (CD-RW), digital versatile disc (DVD), Blu-Ray, any other non-transitory optical medium, a random access memory (RAM), a programmable read only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM), a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other non-transitory medium from which a computer can read. The term computer-readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer-readable medium except transmission media. However, it will be appreciated that where embodiments are described to use a computer-readable readable storage medium, other types of computer-readable mediums may be substituted for or used in addition to the computer-readable storage medium in alternative embodiments.","Additionally, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 refers to (a) hardware-only circuit implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and\/or digital circuitry); (b) combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and\/or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c) circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of \u2018circuitry\u2019 applies to all uses of this term herein, including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 also includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and\/or portion(s) thereof and accompanying software and\/or firmware. As another example, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 as used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a cellular network device, other network device, and\/or other computing device.","Currently, there are several technical issues that may hinder the recognition of gesture inputs, which are delaying development and implementation of hardware and software applications utilizing gesture inputs. One such technical issue is that accelerometer signals are dependent on a device's current orientation. This means that if a user or developer trains a gesture (e.g. creates a gesture template) when the device is held facing forward, the user will have to ensure that all the following input gestures must be performed with the same orientation (facing forward). However, when a user repeats a gesture at different times in different places, the user may not perform the gesture in the exact same orientation as the template. This technical barrier greatly reduces the user-friendliness of implementation of motion gestures on computing devices.","A second technical issue is the need for high recognition rates with low false alarm conditions to provide an acceptable user experience. Since many proposed simple and socially acceptable motion gestures are not always distinguishable from everyday movement of handheld mobile devices, gestures performed and recognized using existing technologies will inherently trigger larger number of false alarms in daily usage of the mobile device. Accordingly, the scope of usage and device control using motion gestures is currently limited.","A third technical issue is the computing power limitation of mobile devices. The recognition algorithm has to be low in computational complexity and light weight in memory usage. Otherwise, the motion recognition engine can occupy the majority of processor resources and consume large power of the device's battery. Accordingly, the regular operations of mobile devices may be negatively impacted.","Some example embodiments facilitate gesture recognition while addressing one or more of these technical issues. For example, some example embodiments address the first technical issue by using a method of absolute orientation to find a specific rotation matrix between an input gesture and a template gesture. The template gesture may then be rotated in its Cartesian coordinate system to the input gesture's Cartesian coordinate system resulting in the creation of a new template gesture. A gesture recognition classifier, such as a Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) algorithm, may be applied to determine whether the new template gesture matches the input gesture. Accordingly, some example embodiments enable a user to hold a device in any orientation and perform gestures arbitrarily in a line (1D gestures), a plane (2D gestures) or space (3D gestures). As long as a gesture is repeated in a similar manner to a template gesture, the gesture recognition classifier combined with absolute orientation based rotation in accordance with some example embodiments may find a good template gesture match and perform device orientation independent motion gesture recognition.","Further, some example embodiments address the second technical issue by implementing one or more filtering techniques during the gesture recognition process to filter out one or more template gestures from a set of template gestures prior to applying the gesture recognition classifier to the filtered template gestures. Accordingly, the filters may act as admission control to reject background hand motions and thus greatly reduce the false recognition rate. Implementation of such filtering techniques may additionally address the third technical issue. In this regard, application of one or more filtering techniques during the rotation procedure may eliminate one or more template gestures from further consideration prior to completion of the rotation procedure for a given template gesture. Since absolute orientation based rotation involves some amount of computation on these filters may reduce the computational complexity to achieve orientation independency. Further, filtering out unmatched template gestures prior to application of a gesture recognition classifier may result in a significant conservation of computing power.","Referring now to ,  illustrates a block diagram of a gesture recognition apparatus  for facilitating gesture recognition according to some example embodiments. It will be appreciated that the gesture recognition apparatus  is provided as an example of some embodiments and should not be construed to narrow the scope or spirit of the invention in any way. In this regard, the scope of the disclosure encompasses many potential embodiments in addition to those illustrated and described herein. As such, while  illustrates one example of a configuration of a gesture recognition apparatus, other configurations may also be used to implement embodiments of the present invention.","The gesture recognition apparatus  may be embodied as a desktop computer, laptop computer, mobile terminal, mobile computer, mobile phone, mobile communication device, game device, digital camera\/camcorder, audio\/video player, television device, digital video recorder, positioning device, game controller, television controller, electronic device controller, chipset, a computing device comprising a chipset, any combination thereof, and\/or the like. In this regard, the gesture recognition apparatus  may comprise any computing device or other apparatus that is configured to facilitate gesture recognition in accordance with one or more example embodiments disclosed herein. In some example embodiments, the gesture recognition apparatus  is embodied as a mobile computing device, such as the mobile terminal illustrated in .","In this regard,  illustrates a block diagram of a mobile terminal  representative of some example embodiments of a gesture recognition apparatus . It should be understood, however, that the mobile terminal  illustrated and hereinafter described is merely illustrative of one type of gesture recognition apparatus  that may implement and\/or benefit from various embodiments of the invention and, therefore, should not be taken to limit the scope of the disclosure. While several embodiments of the electronic device are illustrated and will be hereinafter described for purposes of example, other types of electronic devices, such as mobile telephones, mobile computers, portable digital assistants (PDAs), pagers, laptop computers, desktop computers, gaming devices, televisions, and other types of electronic systems, may employ various embodiments of the invention.","As shown, the mobile terminal  may include an antenna  (or multiple antennas ) in communication with a transmitter  and a receiver . The mobile terminal  may also include a processor  configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver, respectively. The processor  may, for example, be embodied as various means including circuitry, one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor(s), one or more processor(s) without an accompanying digital signal processor, one or more coprocessors, one or more multi-core processors, one or more controllers, processing circuitry, one or more computers, various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) or FPGA (field programmable gate array), or some combination thereof. Accordingly, although illustrated in  as a single processor, in some embodiments the processor  comprises a plurality of processors. These signals sent and received by the processor  may include signaling information in accordance with an air interface standard of an applicable cellular system, and\/or any number of different wireline or wireless networking techniques, comprising but not limited to Wi-Fi, wireless local access network (WLAN) techniques such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11, 802.16, and\/or the like. In addition, these signals may include speech data, user generated data, user requested data, and\/or the like. In this regard, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards, communication protocols, modulation types, access types, and\/or the like. More particularly, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with various first generation (1G), second generation (2G), 2.5G, third-generation (3G) communication protocols, fourth-generation (4G) communication protocols, Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) communication protocols (e.g., session initiation protocol (SIP)), future communication, and\/or the like. For example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2G wireless communication protocols IS-136 (Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA)), Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), IS-95 (Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)), and\/or the like. Also, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2.5G wireless communication protocols General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), and\/or the like. Further, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), Code Division Multiple Access 2000 (CDMA2000), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA), Time Division-Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access (TD-SCDMA), and\/or the like. The mobile terminal may be additionally capable of operating in accordance with 3.9G wireless communication protocols such as Long Term Evolution (LTE) or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and\/or the like. Additionally, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with fourth-generation (4G) wireless communication protocols and\/or the like as well as similar wireless communication protocols that may be developed in the future.","Some Narrow-band Advanced Mobile Phone System (NAMPS), as well as Total Access Communication System (TACS), mobile terminals may also benefit from embodiments of this invention, as should dual or higher mode phones (e.g., digital\/analog or TDMA\/CDMA\/analog phones). Additionally, the mobile terminal  may be capable of operating according to Wi-Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) protocols.","It is understood that the processor  may comprise circuitry for implementing audio\/video and logic functions of the mobile terminal . For example, the processor  may comprise a digital signal processor device, a microprocessor device, an analog-to-digital converter, a digital-to-analog converter, and\/or the like. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile terminal may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor may additionally comprise an internal voice coder (VC) , an internal data modem (DM) , and\/or the like. Further, the processor may comprise functionality to operate one or more software programs, which may be stored in memory. For example, the processor  may be capable of operating a connectivity program, such as a web browser. The connectivity program may allow the mobile terminal  to transmit and receive web content, such as location-based content, according to a protocol, such as Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP), and\/or the like. The mobile terminal  may be capable of using a Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) to transmit and receive web content across the internet or other networks.","The mobile terminal  may also comprise a user interface including, for example, an earphone or speaker , a ringer , a microphone , a display , a user input interface, and\/or the like, which may be operationally coupled to the processor . In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface, such as, for example, the speaker , the ringer , the microphone , the display , and\/or the like. The processor  and\/or user interface circuitry comprising the processor  may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor  (e.g., volatile memory , non-volatile memory , and\/or the like). Although not shown, the mobile terminal may comprise a battery for powering various circuits related to the mobile terminal, for example, a circuit to provide mechanical vibration as a detectable output. The display  of the mobile terminal may be of any type appropriate for the electronic device in question with some examples including a plasma display panel (PDP), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a light-emitting diode (LED), an organic light-emitting diode display (OLED), a projector, a holographic display or the like. The user input interface may comprise devices allowing the mobile terminal to receive data, such as a keypad , a touch display (not shown), a joystick (not shown), and\/or other input device. In embodiments including a keypad, the keypad may comprise numeric (0-9) and related keys (#, *), and\/or other keys for operating the mobile terminal.","In some example embodiments, the mobile terminal  may include a gesture sensor . The gesture sensor  may comprise an accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, pedometer, some combination thereof, or the like. In this regard, the gesture sensor  may comprise an entity configured to determine a state of motion of the mobile terminal  and\/or a property of a state of motion of the mobile terminal . For example, the gesture sensor  may be configured to detect and output data about a length in time, length in distance, rate, acceleration, direction, gravity, and\/or other property of a gesture or other movement of the mobile terminal .","As shown in , the mobile terminal  may also include one or more means for sharing and\/or obtaining data. For example, the mobile terminal may comprise a short-range radio frequency (RF) transceiver and\/or interrogator  so data may be shared with and\/or obtained from electronic devices in accordance with RF techniques. The mobile terminal may comprise other short-range transceivers, such as, for example, an infrared (IR) transceiver , a Bluetooth\u2122 (BT) transceiver  operating using Bluetooth\u2122 brand wireless technology developed by the Bluetooth\u2122 Special Interest Group, a wireless universal serial bus (USB) transceiver  and\/or the like. The Bluetooth\u2122 transceiver  may be capable of operating according to ultra-low power Bluetooth\u2122 technology (e.g., Wibree\u2122) radio standards. In this regard, the mobile terminal  and, in particular, the short-range transceiver may be capable of transmitting data to and\/or receiving data from electronic devices within a proximity of the mobile terminal, such as within 10 meters, for example. Although not shown, the mobile terminal may be capable of transmitting and\/or receiving data from electronic devices according to various wireless networking techniques, including Wi-Fi, WLAN techniques such as IEEE 802.11 techniques, IEEE 802.15 techniques, IEEE 802.16 techniques, and\/or the like.","The mobile terminal  may comprise memory, such as a subscriber identity module (SIM) , a removable user identity module (R-UIM), and\/or the like, which may store information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the SIM, the mobile terminal may comprise other removable and\/or fixed memory. The mobile terminal  may include volatile memory  and\/or non-volatile memory . For example, volatile memory  may include Random Access Memory (RAM) including dynamic and\/or static RAM, on-chip or off-chip cache memory, and\/or the like. Non-volatile memory , which may be embedded and\/or removable, may include, for example, read-only memory, flash memory, magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disks, floppy disk drives, magnetic tape, etc.), optical disc drives and\/or media, non-volatile random access memory (NVRAM), and\/or the like. Like volatile memory  non-volatile memory  may include a cache area for temporary storage of data. One or more of the volatile memory  or non-volatile memory  may be embodied as a tangible, non-transitory memory. The memories may store one or more software programs, instructions, pieces of information, data, and\/or the like which may be used by the mobile terminal for performing functions of the mobile terminal. For example, the memories may comprise an identifier, such as an international mobile equipment identification (IMEI) code, capable of uniquely identifying the mobile terminal .","Returning to , in some example embodiments, the gesture recognition apparatus  includes various means for performing the various functions herein described. These means may comprise one or more of a processor , memory , communication interface , user interface , gesture sensor , or gesture recognizer . The means of the gesture recognition apparatus  as described herein may be embodied as, for example, circuitry, hardware elements (e.g., a suitably programmed processor, combinational logic circuit, and\/or the like), a computer program product comprising computer-readable program instructions (e.g., software or firmware) stored on a computer-readable medium (e.g. memory ) that is executable by a suitably configured processing device (e.g., the processor ), or some combination thereof.","In some example embodiments, one or more of the means illustrated in  may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words, the gesture recognition apparatus  may comprise one or more physical packages (e.g., chips) including materials, components and\/or wires on a structural assembly (e.g., a baseboard). The structural assembly may provide physical strength, conservation of size, and\/or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. In this regard, the processor , memory , communication interface , user interface , gesture sensor , and\/or gesture recognizer  may be at least partially embodied as a chip or chip set. The gesture recognition apparatus  may therefore, in some cases, be configured to or may comprise component(s) configured to implement embodiments of the present invention on a single chip or as a single \u201csystem on a chip.\u201d As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein and\/or for enabling user interface navigation with respect to the functionalities and\/or services described herein.","The processor  may, for example, be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor(s), one or more processor(s) without an accompanying digital signal processor, one or more coprocessors, one or more multi-core processors, one or more controllers, processing circuitry, one or more computers, various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) or FPGA (field programmable gate array), one or more other types of hardware processors, or some combination thereof. Accordingly, although illustrated in  as a single processor, in some embodiments the processor  comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the gesture recognition apparatus  as described herein. The plurality of processors may be embodied on a single computing device or distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the gesture recognition apparatus . In embodiments wherein the gesture recognition apparatus  is embodied as a mobile terminal , the processor  may be embodied as or comprise the processor . In some example embodiments, the processor  is configured to execute instructions stored in the memory  or otherwise accessible to the processor . These instructions, when executed by the processor , may cause the gesture recognition apparatus  to perform one or more of the functionalities of the gesture recognition apparatus  as described herein. As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may comprise an entity capable of performing operations according to one or more example embodiments while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may comprise specifically configured hardware for conducting one or more operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of instructions, such as may be stored in the memory , the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform one or more algorithms and operations described herein.","The memory  may comprise, for example, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, or some combination thereof. In this regard, the memory  may comprise a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium. Although illustrated in  as a single memory, the memory  may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the gesture recognition apparatus . In various example embodiments, the memory  may comprise a hard disk, random access memory, cache memory, flash memory, a compact disc read only memory (CD-ROM), digital versatile disc read only memory (DVD-ROM), an optical disc, circuitry configured to store information, or some combination thereof. In embodiments wherein the gesture recognition apparatus  is embodied as a mobile terminal , the memory  may comprise the volatile memory  and\/or the non-volatile memory . The memory  may be configured to store information, data, applications, instructions, or the like for enabling the gesture recognition apparatus  to carry out various functions in accordance with various example embodiments. For example, in some example embodiments, the memory  is configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively, the memory  may be configured to store program instructions for execution by the processor . The memory  may store information in the form of static and\/or dynamic information. The stored information may include, for example, a pre-stored set of template gestures. This stored information may be stored and\/or used by the gesture sensor  and\/or gesture recognizer  during the course of performing their functionalities.","The communication interface  may be embodied as any device or means embodied in circuitry, hardware, a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., the memory ) and executed by a processing device (e.g., the processor ), or a combination thereof that is configured to receive and\/or transmit data from\/to another computing device. In an example embodiment, the communication interface  is at least partially embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In this regard, the communication interface  may be in communication with the processor , such as via a bus. The communication interface  may include, for example, an antenna, a transmitter, a receiver, a transceiver and\/or supporting hardware or software for enabling communications with one or more remote computing devices. The communication interface  may be configured to receive and\/or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for communications between computing devices. In this regard, the communication interface  may be configured to receive and\/or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for transmission of data over a wireless network, wireline network, some combination thereof, or the like by which the gesture recognition apparatus  and one or more computing devices may be in communication. By way of example, the communication interface  may be configured to receive data from and\/or transmit data to a gesture detection apparatus  over a network , as illustrated in . The communication interface  may additionally be in communication with the memory , user interface , gesture sensor , and\/or gesture recognizer , such as via a bus.","The user interface  may be in communication with the processor  to receive an indication of a user input and\/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical, or other output to a user. As such, the user interface  may include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, a display, a touch screen display, a microphone, a speaker, and\/or other input\/output mechanisms. In embodiments wherein the user interface  comprises or is in communication with a display, the display may comprise, for example, a cathode ray tube (CRT) display, a plasma display panel (PDP), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a light-emitting diode (LED), an organic light-emitting diode display (OLED), a projector (e.g., a projector configured to project a display on a projection screen, wall, and\/or other object), a holographic display, or the like. In embodiments wherein the user interface  comprises a touch screen display, the user interface  may additionally be configured to detect and\/or receive an indication of a touch gesture or other input to the touch screen display. The user interface  may be in communication with the memory , communication interface , gesture sensor , and\/or gesture recognizer , such as via a bus.","The gesture sensor  may be embodied as various means, such as circuitry, hardware, a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., the memory ) and executed by a processing device (e.g., the processor ), or some combination thereof and, in some embodiments, is embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In embodiments wherein the gesture sensor  is embodied separately from the processor , the gesture sensor  may be in communication with the processor . The gesture sensor  may further be in communication with one or more of the memory , communication interface , user interface , or gesture recognizer , such as via a bus.","In some example embodiments, the gesture sensor  may comprise an accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, pedometer, some combination thereof, or the like. In this regard, the gesture sensor  may comprise an entity configured to determine a state of motion and\/or a property of a state of motion of an apparatus, such as the gesture recognition apparatus . For example, the gesture sensor  may be configured to detect and output data about a length in time, length in distance, rate, acceleration, direction, gravity, and\/or other property of a gesture or other movement of an apparatus. In embodiments wherein the gesture recognition apparatus  comprises a mobile terminal , the gesture sensor  may comprise the gesture sensor .","The gesture recognizer  may be embodied as various means, such as circuitry, hardware, a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., the memory ) and executed by a processing device (e.g., the processor ), or some combination thereof and, in some embodiments, is embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In embodiments wherein the gesture recognizer  is embodied separately from the processor , the gesture recognizer  may be in communication with the processor . The gesture recognizer  may further be in communication with one or more of the memory , communication interface , user interface , or gesture sensor , such as via a bus. In some example embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may comprise an image signal processor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","102","300","302","304","306"]},"The network  may comprise one or more wireless networks (for example, a cellular network, wireless local area network, wireless personal area network, wireless metropolitan area network, wireless personal area network), one or more wireline networks, a wireless link (e.g., a radio link, Bluetooth link, ZigBee link, wireless universal serial bus link, Infrared data link, and\/or the like or other wireless link or interface), or some combination thereof, and in some embodiments may comprise at least a portion of the internet.","The gesture detection apparatus  and gesture recognition apparatus  may each be embodied as any computing device. By way of non-limiting example, the gesture detection apparatus  and\/or gesture recognition apparatus  may be embodied as a desktop computer, laptop computer, mobile terminal, mobile computer, mobile phone, mobile communication device, one or more servers, one or more network nodes, game device, digital camera\/camcorder, audio\/video player, television device, radio receiver, digital video recorder, positioning device, game controller, television controller, electronic device controller, chipset, a computing device comprising a chipset, any combination thereof, and\/or the like.","In some example embodiments, an entity implemented on the gesture detection apparatus  may be configured to detect motion of the gesture detection apparatus  (e.g., a gesture made with the gesture detection apparatus ), and may collect information about the detected motion and convey that information to the gesture recognition apparatus  via the network . In this regard, in some example embodiments, the gesture sensor  may be at least partially embodied on a gesture detection apparatus .","The gesture recognition apparatus  may process the received information about the motion of the gesture detection apparatus  in order to recognize a gesture made with the gesture detection apparatus  in accordance with any of the various example embodiments disclosed herein. Accordingly, the gesture recognition apparatus  may comprise an embodiment of the gesture recognition apparatus .","As an example, the system  may comprise a system where a mobile control apparatus is used to control or otherwise provide user input remotely to another apparatus. For example, in one implementation of the system , the gesture detection apparatus  may comprise a motion-sensitive video game controller, and the gesture recognition apparatus  may comprise a video game console that may provide for game control based on gesture information received from the gesture detection apparatus . As another example, the gesture detection apparatus  may comprise a controller for a television, media player, or other consumer electronic device, and the gesture recognition apparatus  may comprise a respective consumer electronic device controlled by the controller, which may be configured to recognize a control gesture based on information received from the gesture recognition apparatus  and perform an operation based on the recognized control gesture.","As such, it will be appreciated that where a gesture, input gesture, information about a motion\/gesture, data describing a gesture captured by a gesture sensor, and\/or the like is discussed as being processed, segmented, recognized, and\/or the like by the gesture recognizer  or other entity of the gesture recognition apparatus , the gesture or motion may comprise a gesture made with the gesture recognition apparatus , or may comprise a gesture made with a device that may be in communication with the gesture recognition apparatus , such as a gesture detection apparatus .","In some example embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may be configured to provide gesture recognition services for applications within an application framework. The application framework of some example embodiments may comprise an open application framework that may allow developers to harness gesture recognition services that may be provided by the gesture recognizer  to enable application-specific gesture controls. Referring now to ,  illustrates a software layer implementation of an application framework for facilitating gesture recognition according to some example embodiments.","The layers may include an operating system layer . The operating system layer  may comprise and\/or may serve as a base layer for implementation of one or more sensor drivers . The sensor drivers  may provide drivers for operation of the gesture sensor . In this regard, the sensor drivers  may provide drivers for a 3-axis accelerometer sensor, 3-axis gyroscope, 3-axis magnetometer and\/or other sensors that may be configured to facilitate motion gesture recognition. The motion gesture software development kit (SDK) library  may be at least partially implemented and\/or controlled by the gesture recognizer , and may receive motion gesture data collected by sensors under the control of the sensor drivers . The motion gesture SDK  may enable an application developer to utilize a gesture recognition application programming interface (API) to train and test motion gestures directly to their application. In addition, the application framework  may provide a higher abstraction layer for developer application creation. The application framework  may allow for higher level APIs to be created for different gesture categories while utilizing the motion gesture SDK library . The different gesture control categories can include categories such as mobile device user interface control (e.g. gesture shortcuts to applications or menu control), gaming, health & wellness, younger generation educational experiences, sports training assistance, and\/or other applications in which motion gesture recognition can be utilized.","The gesture recognizer  may be configured to receive data describing an input gesture. In this regard, an input gesture may be described by motion data captured by the gesture sensor . The input gesture may comprise any gesture made that may impart motion to a device, such as the apparatus , gesture detection apparatus , or the like. In some example embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may receive a raw stream of data captured by the gesture sensor , which may comprise data describing multiple gestures and\/or other movement of a device. In such embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may be configured to implement a delimiter that may be configured to segment the data stream into individual gestures. As an example, there may be a slight pause in motion at the start and\/or at the end of a gesture, which may be used by the delimiter to facilitate segmentation. As another example, a user may press a button, make a touch gesture to a touch screen, or provide other input to denote the start and\/or completion of a gesture. This input may be used by the delimiter to facilitate gesture segmentation. In other example embodiments, data captured by the gesture sensor  may be segmented into individual input gestures (e.g., by the gesture sensor ) prior to being passed to the gesture recognizer . In this regard, it will be appreciated that a delimiter may be implemented by another entity, such as the gesture sensor ) in addition to or in lieu of implementation of a delimiter by the gesture recognizer .","The gesture recognizer  may be configured to compare an input gesture to each of a plurality of predefined template gestures to attempt to find a template gesture matching the input gesture in order to facilitate recognition of the input gesture. The template gestures may, for example, be stored in the memory , and may have been defined by a user, application developer, device manufacturer, and\/or the like. In comparing the input gesture to a template gesture, the gesture recognizer  may be configured to determine a rotation matrix between the input gesture and the template gesture. The gesture recognizer  may use the rotation matrix to rotate the template gesture to the input gesture's Cartesian coordinate system, resulting in the creation of a new rotated template gesture. The gesture recognizer  may apply a gesture recognition classifier to the rotated template gesture and the input gesture to determine whether the template gesture matches the input gesture. The gesture recognition classifier may comprise any appropriate classifier, such as DTW, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM), Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), or the like.","In some example embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may be configured to apply one or more filtering techniques such that some of the template gestures may be eliminated from further consideration prior to rotation of the template gesture and\/or prior to application of the gesture recognition classifier. Accordingly, computational complexity and power consumption for gesture recognition may be reduced.","Referring now to ,  illustrates an example process flow for facilitating gesture recognition using filtering according to some example embodiments. As illustrated by , a gesture sensor, such as the gesture sensor , may capture data describing motion of an apparatus. In the example of , the gesture sensor is illustrated by way of example as being embodied as an accelerometer, and may provide accelerometer data. However, it will be appreciated that gesture sensors other than an accelerometer may be used in addition to or in lieu of an accelerometer within the context of the example embodiment illustrated in . A delimiter  may segment the accelerometer data to determine an input gesture, denoted by the symbol s. The input gesture may be compared to a set of template gestures . The set of template gestures may be denoted as g, {i=1, 2, . . . , N}. In this regard, as illustrated by the operations , filtering may be applied by the gesture recognizer  to each respective template gesture in the set of template gestures in the process of rotating a template gesture to the coordinate system of the input gesture.","If a template gesture is eliminated from further consideration by filtering, the gesture recognizer  may determine a distance between the eliminated template gesture and the input gesture to be \u201cDist_max,\u201d as illustrated by reference . In this regard, \u201cDist_max\u201d may comprise a value that is of significant enough magnitude that the eliminated template gesture will not be determined as matching the input gesture, or may comprise a flag or other value denoting the template gesture as being eliminated. Accordingly, the gesture recognizer  may apply one or more filters during and\/or prior to performing calculations for rotating a template gesture to a coordinate system of an input gesture. In this regard, filters may be used to eliminate some template gestures from further consideration prior to rotation of the eliminated template gestures and\/or prior to application of a gesture recognition classifier to the eliminated template gestures.","If, however, a template gesture satisfies the threshold(s) of the applied filter(s), the gesture recognizer  may apply a gesture recognition classifier, such as a DTW algorithm, to the template gesture to calculate a distance between the input gesture and the template gesture, as illustrated by references . After each template gesture in the set of template gestures has been processed (e.g., either eliminated by filtering or rotated and compared to the input gesture using a gesture recognition classifier), the gesture recognizer  may determine the template gesture having the minimum distance to the input gesture. If the minimum distance is less than (or equal to) a threshold Th_dtw, the gesture recognizer  may determine that the template gesture having the minimum distance is a match to the input gesture. If, however, the minimum distance exceeds the threshold, the gesture recognizer  may determine that there is not a template gesture that matches the input gesture.","Having now generally described filtering and gesture recognition in accordance with some example embodiments, various filtering techniques that may be implemented in accordance with some example embodiments will now be described in more detail. In some example embodiments, the gesture recognizer  may compare one or more properties of a template gesture to one or more corresponding properties of the input gesture prior to rotation of the template gesture. If the comparison of the respective properties satisfies a predefined threshold(s), the gesture recognizer  may proceed to perform calculations for rotating the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture. If, however, the comparison does not satisfy the predefined threshold(s), the gesture recognizer  may eliminate the template gesture from further consideration before performing further calculations for rotating the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture.","Accordingly, determining whether a comparison of the properties satisfies a predefined threshold(s) may serve as a filter. The properties that may be compared may, for example, include lengths of the input gesture and the template gesture, rates of the template gesture and input gesture, acceleration of the input gesture and the template gesture, some combination thereof, or the like. The predefined threshold may, for example, comprise a value, magnitude, ratio, degree of deviation, or the like that may define an acceptable relationship between a property of the template gesture and the input gesture. In this regard, the predefined threshold may comprise a metric to ensure that a property of the template gesture does not deviate too significantly (e.g., more than an acceptable amount) from a respective property of the input gesture. If a property of the template gesture does deviate significantly from the respective property of the input gesture, the template gesture may be considered to not be a match to the input gesture, and may be eliminated from further consideration. The predefined threshold may be defined by a user, application developer, hardware developer, or the like. The predefined threshold may be defined to any appropriate value to account for a desired error tolerance range, filter sensitivity, and\/or other factor.","As an example, the gesture recognizer  may perform the following operations to compare the length of the template gesture g to the length of the input gesture s to ensure that the difference in lengths does not exceed a predefined threshold length.\n\n","In order to rotate a template gesture to the coordinate system of the input gesture, the gesture recognizer  may calculate a rotation matrix. These calculations may include the following operations:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["M(1, 1) = C(1, 1) + C(2, 2) +","M(1, 2) = C(2, 3) \u2212 C(3, 2)","M(1, 3) = C(3, 1) \u2212 C(1, 3)","M(1, 4) = C(1, 2) \u2212 C(2, 1)"]},{"entry":["C(3, 3)",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["M(2, 1) = C(2, 3) \u2212 C(3, 2)","M(2, 2) = C(1, 1) \u2212 C(2, 2) \u2212","M(2, 3) = C(1, 2) + C(2, 1)","M(2, 4) = C(3, 1) + C(1, 3)"]},{"entry":[{},"C(3, 3)",{},{}]},{"entry":["M(3, 1) = C(3, 1) \u2212 C(1, 3)","M(3, 2) = C(1, 2) + C(2, 1)","M(3, 3) = \u2212C(1, 1) + C(2, 2) \u2212","M(3, 4) = C(2, 3) + C(3, 2)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"C(3, 3)",{}]},{"entry":["M(4, 1) = C(1, 2) \u2212 C(2, 1)","M(4, 2) = C(3, 1) + C(1, 3)","M(4, 3) = C(2, 3) + C(3, 2)","M(4, 4) = \u2212C(1, 1) \u2212 C(2, 2) +"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"C(3, 3)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The gesture recognizer  may implement a filtering operation by determining whether a relationship determined based at least in part on the constructed matrix M satisfies a predefined threshold. If the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the template gesture gmay be eliminated from further consideration. If, however, the relationship does satisfy the predefined threshold, the gesture recognizer  may continue calculations for rotating the template gesture gto the coordinate system of the input gesture s. Accordingly, determining whether the relationship satisfies a predefined threshold may serve as a filter for eliminating template gestures that may not be considered a potential match based on the determined relationship. The predefined threshold may, for example, comprise a value, magnitude, ratio, degree of deviation, or the like that may define an acceptable relationship. In this regard, the predefined threshold may comprise a metric to ensure that the template gesture does not deviate too significantly (e.g., more than an acceptable amount) from a respective property of the input gesture. The predefined threshold may be defined by a user, application developer, hardware developer, or the like. The predefined threshold may be defined to any appropriate value to account for a desired error tolerance range, filter sensitivity, and\/or other factor.","As an example, the gesture recognizer  may determine whether a relationship between the largest positive eigenvalue of M and the other eigenvalues of M satisfies a predefined threshold. For example, the gesture recognizer  may determine whether a ratio between the largest positive eigenvalue of M and the other eigenvalues of M exceeds a predefined threshold, such as 1.5, as used by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the following example operations that may be performed by the gesture recognizer :\n\n","Assuming that the template gesture ghas not been eliminated from further consideration, the gesture recognizer  may perform the following operations to determine the rotation matrix for gand s:\n\n","After calculating the rotation matrix, the gesture recognizer  may optionally perform a further filtering operation prior to rotating the template gesture to the coordinate system of the input gesture. In this regard, the gesture recognizer  may use the rotation matrix to rotate a gravity vector associated with the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture. The gesture recognizer  may compare the rotated gravity vector to a gravity vector associated with the input gesture to determine whether an angle between the rotated gravity vector associated with the template gesture and the gravity vector associated with the input gesture satisfies a predefined threshold. If the angle satisfies the predefined threshold, the gesture recognizer  may proceed with calculations for rotating the template gesture to the coordinate system of the input gesture. If, however, the angle does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the template gesture may be eliminated from further consideration. In this regard, a template gesture may, for example, be recorded as a (gesture, gravity vector) tuple during a training and testing phase. During recognition, the gravity vector may be used as a watermark for filtering when performing recognition of an input gesture.","The predefined threshold may, for example, comprise a predefined angle, cosine value, value, or other metric that may define an acceptable angle between the rotated gravity vector associated with the template gesture and the gravity vector associated with the input gesture. In this regard, for example, if the angle between the rotated gravity vector associated with the template gesture and the gravity vector associated with the input gesture exceeds the predefined threshold value, the template gesture may be regarded as not being an acceptable candidate for a match to the input gesture, and may be eliminated from further consideration. As another example, if the predefine threshold is a cosine value, the cosine of the angle between the rotated gravity vector associated with the template gesture and the gravity vector associated with the input gesture may be calculated and compared with the threshold cosine value. If the calculated cosine value exceeds the threshold cosine value, the template gesture may be regarded as not being an acceptable candidate for a match to the input gesture, and may be eliminated from further consideration. The predefined threshold may be defined by a user, application developer, hardware developer, or the like. The predefined threshold may be defined to any appropriate value to account for a desired error tolerance range, filter sensitivity, and\/or other factor.","As an example, the gesture recognizer  may perform the following operations to compare the gravity vector of the template gesture to the gravity vector of the input gesture:\n\n","Assuming that the template gesture g, has not been eliminated from further consideration, the gesture recognizer  may rotate the template gesture to the coordinate system of the input gesture, as follows:\n\n","The gesture recognizer  may perform a further filtering operation prior to using a gesture recognition classifier to compare the rotated template gesture and the input gesture. In this regard, gesture recognizer  may calculate a pairwise distance between the rotated template gesture and the test gesture. If the distance is less than a predefined threshold, the gesture recognizer may apply the gesture recognition classifier to the rotated template gesture and the input gesture. Otherwise, the template gesture may be eliminated from further consideration. The predefined threshold may, for example, comprise a predefined distance or other metric that may be used to ensure that the pairwise distance does not exceed an acceptable tolerance range. In this regard, if the pairwise distance is greater than the threshold, the template gesture may be considered to not be a candidate to match the input gesture, and may be eliminated from further consideration. The predefined threshold may be defined by a user, application developer, hardware developer, or the like. The predefined threshold may be defined to any appropriate value to account for a desired error tolerance range, filter sensitivity, and\/or other factor. In some example embodiments, the predefined threshold may be learned from an empirical distribution of test experiments for gesture recognition.","The gesture recognizer  may, for example, perform the following operations to determine the pairwise distance between the rotated template gesture and the input gesture and determine whether the pairwise distance satisfies (e.g., is less than) a predefined threshold:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIGS. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"i":["a","c ","a ","b ","c ","a ","b "],"b":["6","225","165"]},"Referring now to ,  illustrates a flowchart according to an example method for facilitating gesture recognition according to some example embodiments. The operations illustrated in and described with respect to  may, for example, be performed by, with the assistance of, and\/or under the control of one or more of the processor , memory , communication interface , user interface , gesture sensor , or gesture recognizer . Operation  may comprise constructing a matrix based at least in part on an input gesture and a template gesture. For example, operation  may comprise calculating the matrix C and\/or the matrix M, as described above in Operation 2.2 and Operation 2.3. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining a relationship based at least in part on the constructed matrix. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining whether the relationship satisfies a predefined threshold. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If it is determined at operation  that the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, operation  may comprise eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If, however, it is determined at operation  that the relationship does satisfy the predefined threshold, operation  may comprise determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["110","112","114","116","118","120","800","800","110","112","120","800","810","110","112","120","810","820","810","110","112","120","820","820","830","110","112","120","830","820","840","110","112","120","840"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["110","112","114","116","118","120","900","110","112","120","900","910","110","112","120","910","910","990","110","112","120","990"]},"If, however, it is determined in operation  that the comparison does satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise constructing a matrix based at least in part on the input gesture and the template gesture. For example, operation  may comprise calculating the matrix C and\/or the matrix M, as described above in Operation 2.2 and Operation 2.3. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining a relationship based at least in part on the constructed matrix. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining whether the relationship satisfies a predefined threshold. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If it is determined at operation  that the relationship does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , in which the template gesture may be eliminated from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture.","If, however, it is determined at operation  that the relationship does satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise determining a rotation matrix based at least in part on the constructed matrix. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise using the rotation matrix to rotate the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining whether a pairwise distance between the rotated template gesture and the input gesture satisfies a predefined threshold. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If, it is determined at operation  that the pairwise distance does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , in which the template gesture may be eliminated from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. If, however, it is determined at operation  that the pairwise distance does satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise using a gesture recognition classifier to determine whether the input gesture matches the template gesture based at least in part on a comparison between the rotated template gesture and the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation .","Referring now to ,  illustrates a flowchart according to yet another example method for facilitating gesture recognition according to some example embodiments. In this regard,  illustrates operations -, one or more of which may be performed following operation  as illustrated in  and described above in lieu of one or more of operations -. The operations illustrated in and described with respect to  may, for example, be performed by, with the assistance of, and\/or under the control of one or more of the processor , memory , communication interface , user interface , gesture sensor , or gesture recognizer . Operation  may comprise using the rotation matrix (e.g., the rotation matrix determined in operation ) to rotate a gravity vector associated with the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining whether an angle between the rotated gravity vector and a gravity vector associated with the input gesture satisfies a predefined threshold. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If it is determined at operation  that the angle does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise eliminating the template gesture from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation .","If, however, it is determined at operation  that the angle does satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise using the rotation matrix to rotate the template gesture to a coordinate system of the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . Operation  may comprise determining whether a pairwise distance between the rotated template gesture and the input gesture satisfies a predefined threshold. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation . If, it is determined at operation  that the pairwise distance does not satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , in which the template gesture may be eliminated from further consideration for recognition of the input gesture. If, however, it is determined at operation  that the pairwise distance does satisfy the predefined threshold, the method may proceed to operation , which may comprise using a gesture recognition classifier to determine whether the input gesture matches the template gesture based at least in part on a comparison between the rotated template gesture and the input gesture. The processor , memory , and\/or gesture recognizer  may, for example, provide means for performing operation .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIGS. 7-10","b":["112","110","102","102"]},"Accordingly, blocks of the flowcharts support combinations of means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowcharts, and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts, may be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer program product(s).","The above described functions may be carried out in many ways. For example, any suitable means for carrying out each of the functions described above may be employed to carry out embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment, a suitably configured processor (for example, the processor ) may provide all or a portion of the elements. In another embodiment, all or a portion of the elements may be configured by and operate under control of a computer program product. The computer program product for performing the methods of an example embodiment of the invention includes a computer-readable storage medium (for example, the memory ), such as the non-volatile storage medium, and computer-readable program code portions, such as a series of computer instructions, embodied in the computer-readable storage medium.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the invention. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and\/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and\/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and\/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated within the scope of the invention. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Having thus described embodiments of the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 6","i":["a","c "],"b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
