---
title: Proxy communications on a social network
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides a system and/or method for establishing proxy communications between users on a social network. An exemplary method includes creating an alias on a primary social network when a user logs in to the primary social network, wherein the alias comprises the user's identity on a secondary social network. The method further includes creating a cache comprising a map relating a second user's identity on the primary social network to the second user's identity on a secondary social network, wherein the creation of the map is based, at least in part, on the user and the second user being identified as friends in the secondary social network. Communications from the user to the second user are directed through the primary social network based, at least in part, on the map. The communications are formatted to appear as if they were sent from the user's account on the secondary social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489695&OS=08489695&RS=08489695
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08489695
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110309
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Social networks often allow advanced communications between users, including, for example, the posting of pictures and video to a user's page, presence information, instant messaging, video communications, and the like. Further, the social network may allow a user on another social network to perform certain functions, such as communicating with friends on the first social network. However, the externally accessible functionality may be limited to functions and uses that the social networks have in common, such as presence detection and instant messaging. This may limit advanced communications between users.","The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key nor critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","The subject innovation relates to methods and systems for establishing proxy communications between two users on a primary social network based on their identification as friends, on a secondary social network. The proxy communication takes place directly between accounts in the primary social network, using cached maps to identify the primary social network account that corresponds to a user's account on the secondary social network. Each message sent between the accounts on the primary social network is modified to appear as if it came from a sender's corresponding account on the secondary social network. As a result, more complex communications, including audio files, video files, picture files, and the like, may be sent between the accounts than may be allowed by communication connections between the primary social network and the secondary social network.","An exemplary method can be used to establish proxy communications between users on a social network. The method includes creating an alias on a primary social network when a user logs in to the primary social network, wherein the alias includes the user's identity on a secondary social network. A cache can be created that includes a map relating a second user's identity on the primary social network to the second user's identity on a secondary social network, wherein the creation of the map is based, at least in part, on the user and the second user being identified as friends in the secondary social network. Communications from the user to the second user can be directed through the primary social network based, at least in part, on the map, wherein the communications appear to have been sent from a sender's account on the secondary social network.","An exemplary system provides for establishing proxy communications between users on a primary social network. The system includes a processing unit in the primary social network and a system memory, wherein the system memory includes code configured to direct the processing unit to create an alias for a user on a primary social network when the user logs in to the primary social network, and wherein the alias includes the user's identity on a secondary social network. The code can direct the processor to create a cache configured to hold maps that relate other users' identities on the primary social network to their corresponding identities on a secondary social network, wherein the other users are friends of the user in the secondary social network. Communications can be directed between the user and the other users through the primary social network based, at least in part, on the maps, wherein the communications are configured to appear to have been sent from the secondary social network.","Another exemplary embodiment of the subject innovation provides one or more computer-readable storage media that include code configured to direct a processing unit to create an alias on a primary social network when a user logs in to the primary social network, and wherein the alias comprises the user's identity on a secondary social network. The code can be configured to direct the processor to create a cache including a map relating a second user's identity on the primary social network to the second user's identity on a secondary social network, wherein the creation of the map is based, at least in part, on the user and the second user being identified as friends in the secondary social network. The code can be configured to direct the processor to direct communications from the user to the second user through the primary social network based, at least in part, on the map, wherein the communications appear to have been sent from the user's account on the secondary social network.","The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed, and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.","As utilized herein, terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201csystem,\u201d and the like are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, software (e.g., in execution), and\/or firmware. For example, a component can be a process running on a processor, an object, an executable, a program, a function, a library, a subroutine, and\/or a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers. The term \u201cprocessor\u201d is generally understood to refer to a hardware component, such as a processing unit of a computer system.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any non-transitory computer-readable device, or media, such as a computer-readable storage media.","Non-transitory computer-readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disk, floppy disk, and magnetic strips, among others), optical disks (e.g., compact disk (CD), and digital versatile disk (DVD), among others), smart cards, and flash memory devices (e.g., card, stick, and key drive, among others). In contrast, computer-readable media generally (i.e., not necessarily storage media) may additionally include communication media such as transmission media for electrical or electronic signals and the like.","Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter. Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.","The subject innovation relates to establishing proxy communications between two users on a primary social network based on their status, such as a friendship designation, on a secondary social network. Although two users and two social networks are used to simplify the explanation herein, it will be clear that the techniques described herein are not limited to two users or two social networks, but may be expanded to any number of users and social networks. As used herein, a social network is a system that facilitates communications between user accounts, wherein the communications are along links created by accepting requests, e.g., friendship requests, between users. The social networks described herein include all associated websites and hardware, software, locations, mirror sites, and the like. Each user has an identity, or id, on each social network, which may include the name of the social network and the account name under which the user accesses the social network.","The proxy communications can be performed by modules associated with each of the user accounts in the primary social network that create proxy entities, termed \u201caliases,\u201d in the primary social network for the corresponding identities in the secondary social network. The aliases are created when a user having multiple linked identities on various social networks logs into the primary social network. The alias may be queried for a primary network identification. In response, the mapping of the caller's identity in the secondary social network to the caller's identity in the primary social network is recorded and a corresponding mapping is returned. Thus, both parties can build a temporary map of currently present (logged on) users correlating their secondary social network identities to their primary network identity.","The maps can be used for proxy communications, such as message translation and routing, without having to route messages through the secondary social network. Accordingly, as routing messages through a secondary network may limit the complexity of the communications, the proxy communications may allow more advanced technologies to be used for communications between the users, such as allowing video files to be sent between the users. Further, since the mapping is dynamically constructed and deleted upon logging off the primary social network, persistent maps of the identities on the primary social network to the corresponding identities on the secondary social network may not be retained. Thus, communication channels are established in a scalable manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","100","106","108","1","102","106","1","1","110","108","2","1","112","114","1","102","2","104","106","1","2","116","108","2","2","118","120","2","104"]},"A communications link  may be set up between accounts SU  and SU  on the secondary social network , for example, by sending an invitation from SU  to SU . If the user of SU  accepts the invitation, the two accounts SU  and SU  may then communicate with each other over the secondary social network . Further, if each user  and  is logged in to the primary social network , they can communication with each other over the secondary social network  through the links  and  to their respective accounts  and  on the secondary social network , using the communications link . The communications appear to a user  or  to have originated from the respective senders account on the secondary social network . However, the communications may be limited by the application programming interface (API) used to establish the links  and , which may limit the complexity of the communications between the users  and .","In an exemplary embodiment, a module creates an alias  on the primary social network  corresponding to a user's account SU  on the secondary social network . A cache  is also created on the primary social network , which can hold a map of the corresponding identities on the primary social network  and the secondary social network  for another user, such as the map phrase \u201cSU==SU,\u201d shown in the diagram . Similarly, another alias  can be created for a second user's account SU  on the primary social network , corresponding to the second user's identity, \u201cSU,\u201d on the secondary social network . As for SU , a cache  can be created for the second user's account, SU , that holds a map of a first user's corresponding identities on the primary social network  and the secondary social network , such as the map phrase \u201cSU ==SU,\u201d shown in the diagram .","The maps  and  can then be used to establish a proxy communication link  between the user accounts SU and SU on the primary social network . This link may then be used to send communications between the user accounts  and  that appear to have originated from the sending user's account on the secondary social network . Further, the communications technologies on the proxy communication link  may not be as limited as over the links  and  to the secondary social network , allowing more complex communications to take place. The methods for setting up the proxy communication link are discussed in greater detail with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","1","1","204","2","1","206"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","2","304","2","2","306"]},"At block , the secondary social network account, SU receives an initial presence notifier for linked users who are already logged on to their accounts on the secondary social network. For example, the notifiers may include a notification that the first user, U, is logged on to SU. The notifications are passed on to the user's account, SU, on the primary social network, for example, through link  discussed with respect to .","In addition to displaying the notifications for the user, U, at block , an alias module in the primary social network  may query for each of the linked accounts (friends) to determine if any of the linked accounts have an alias on the primary social network . For example, referring also to , account SU  on the primary social network  can query in the primary social network  to determine if the alias SU  exists. If the alias exists, at block , the alias SU  forwards the query information to SU  so that the cache  can be updated with the information S U ==SU.","At block , the alias SU  replies with SU==SU. If the alias does not exist, no value is returned to SU  and, hence, SU  knows that there is no alias for the account SU  on the secondary social network .","If the alias SU  replies with SU==SU, at block , SU  stores the mapping information SU==SU in the corresponding cache . Once the caches  and  have stored the mapped relationships between the users' accounts on the primary and secondary social networks, they may be used to facilitate direct communication between the users' accounts on the primary social network, as discussed with respect to . For example, the proxy may compare outgoing messages to the maps stored in the cache, and, if a corresponding account exists on the primary social network, the message may be sent directly to that account. The \u201cfrom\u201d entry can be modified to show the account name of the corresponding account on the secondary network, thus, making the mapping invisible to the users.","In an embodiment, a similar approach may be used to create alias objects for users upon logging in to the primary social network, but wherein the details for routing notifications and signals can be stored in a distributed cache for fetching by modules on the primary social network. However, this may lead to a high volume of network calls. In an embodiment, a full list of maps of secondary social network identities to primary social network details of a user's friends in the secondary social network may be stored on the primary social network. However, this can lead to wasted storage space as much of the time friends in the secondary social network may not be available for communication. It also requires the primary network to have a permanent store of details of friends in secondary social networks and their mapping to the corresponding primary social network id.","In the example that follows, the primary social network is Windows Live\u2122 and the secondary social network is Facebook\u00a9. However, the techniques described herein are not limited to these networks, or, indeed, to only two networks. Social networks that may be used in exemplary embodiments include, for example, Windows Live\u2122, Facebook\u00a9, MySpace\u00a9, and many others.","Windows Live\u2122 messenger provides its users the ability to communicate with their Facebook\u00a9 friends over links to the Facebook\u00a9 system, for example, as described with respect to links  and  in . This applies to two users who are friends only in Facebook\u00a9 and are using Windows Live\u2122 messenger for connecting to Facebook\u00a9. Currently, the only supported functionality is basic instant messaging (IM) and presence, because that is the only functionality that Facebook\u00a9 supports for parties accessing their account through external social networks. When both users make their connection to Facebook\u00a9 via the Windows Live\u2122 services, the techniques described herein may be used to support richer communications, including, for example, games, file transfers, audio, and video. For such communications a proxy communications channel can be established within the Windows Live\u2122 network as both users are available in the Windows Live\u2122 network.","As described herein, when a user logs in to Windows Live\u2122, an identity object is created that represents that user in the Windows Live\u2122 network. In an embodiment, in addition to the identity object, an alias object will be created on the Windows Live\u2122 network for each secondary social network account, such as Facebook\u00a9, to which the user's primary account on the Windows Live\u2122 network is linked. The alias object is identified by the user's account name in Facebook\u00a9 and the secondary social network name, \u201cFACEBOOK.\u201d Both may be used to avoid an identity conflict between two networks, such as Facebook\u00a9 and MySpace\u00a9, if the same account name is used for multiple networks.","The alias object may cache the basic Windows Live\u2122 information for the user, such as the Windows Live\u2122 id, the account capabilities, and the like. Thus, the alias object provides a look up of the user's Facebook\u00a9 identity and capabilities for the identity in the Facebook\u00a9. When the alias object receives a query to get Windows Live\u2122 details, it also notifies the Windows Live\u2122 identity with the details, i.e., both for Windows Live\u2122 and for Facebook\u00a9, of the identity making the query.","The query to fetch the Windows Live\u2122 details is performed when the Windows Live\u2122 identity object receives an initial availability notification of a contact from a Facebook\u00a9 account. Initial availability notifications are notifications that arrive within a short period, for example, within less than about one minute, after Windows Live\u2122 logs the user in to Facebook\u00a9. To prevent multiple look ups, and potentially redundant mapping, the calls may be limited to a small period after the login to Facebook\u00a9 and are not done for every availability notification received.","If the look up succeeds, i.e., if a query response is received by a user's Windows Live\u2122 account from another user's Windows Live\u2122 account providing the alias information about the other user's Facebook\u00a9 account, then the module associated with the user's account on Windows Live\u2122 will perform several functions. First, the module will cache the friend's Windows Live\u2122 and Facebook\u00a9 details, along with the primary identity of the user so that duplicate look ups are not performed. Since the look up succeeded, the friend is connected to Facebook\u00a9 via Windows Live\u2122. Further, the module associated with the friends account on Windows Live\u2122 would have noted the user's Windows Live\u2122 and Facebook\u00a9 details from the query. In this way the friend's identity in Windows Live\u2122 can update its cache with the user's Windows Live\u2122 and Facebook\u00a9 details.","The techniques described herein provide a scalable approach to build up the Windows Live\u2122 users memory cache having details of the friends available for communication in Facebook\u00a9. Once the mapping of friend's Facebook\u00a9 identity to the friend's Windows Live\u2122 identity is available, a dynamic communication channel can be established within Windows Live\u2122, without communicating through Facebook\u00a9.","In order to provide additional context for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter,  and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the subject innovation may be implemented. For example, proxy communications between two users through two social networking sites can be implemented in such a suitable computing environment. While the claimed subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer-executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a local computer and\/or remote computer, those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks and\/or implement particular abstract data types.","Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject innovation may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including single-processor or multi-processor computer systems, minicomputers, mainframe computers, as well as personal computers, hand-held computing devices, microprocessor-based and\/or programmable consumer electronics, and the like, each of which may operatively communicate with one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However, some aspects of the subject innovation may be practiced on stand-alone computers. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in local and\/or remote memory storage devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","410","410","400","420","420"]},"One possible communication between a client  and a server  can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The system  includes a communication framework  that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client(s)  and the server(s) . The client(s)  are operably connected to one or more client data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the client(s) . Information in the data store(s)  may include, for example, aliases associated with accounts and a cache of maps. The client data store(s)  are not limited to the client(s) , but may be located remotely, such as in a cloud server. Similarly, the server(s)  are operably connected to one or more server data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the servers .","As an example, the client(s)  may be modules in user accounts in a primary social network that provide access to a secondary social network over a communication framework  hosted by the Internet. The client(s) may also include local user computers that can provide access to the primary social network over the communication framework . The server(s)  may be secondary social networks accessed by the client(s), which may send presence notifications and forward queries and messages, as explained herein.","With reference to , an exemplary environment  for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer  includes a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus . The system bus  couples system components including, but not limited to, the system memory  to the processing unit . The processing unit  can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .","The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure(s) including the memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus or external bus, and\/or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures known to those of ordinary skill in the art.","The system memory  may include non-transitory computer-readable storage media comprising volatile memory  and nonvolatile memory . The basic input\/output system (BIOS), containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory  can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), or flash memory.","Volatile memory  includes random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), SynchLink\u2122 DRAM (SLDRAM), Rambus\u00ae direct RAM (RDRAM), direct Rambus\u00ae dynamic RAM (DRDRAM), and Rambus\u00ae dynamic RAM (RDRAM).","The computer  also includes other non-transitory computer-readable media, such as removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media.  shows, for example a disk storage . Disk storage  includes, but is not limited to, devices like a magnetic disk drive, floppy disk drive, tape drive, Jaz drive, Zip drive, LS-100 drive, flash memory card, or memory stick.","In addition, disk storage  can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including, but not limited to, an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device (CD-ROM), CD recordable drive (CD-R Drive), CD rewritable drive (CD-RW Drive) or a digital versatile disk ROM drive (DVD-ROM). To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices  to the system bus , a removable or non-removable interface is typically used such as interface .","It is to be appreciated that  describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system , which can be stored on disk storage , acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system .","System applications  take advantage of the management of resources by operating system  through program modules  and program data  stored either in system memory  or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the computing environment may include a server in a primary social network, and the system memory  or disk storage  may hold modules that create aliases and caches of maps, as well as the aliases and caches themselves. In some embodiments, a web interface may be provided to a user over the Internet through a program module .","In some embodiments, the computer  can represent a user computer used to access the social network. In these embodiments, a user enters commands or information into the computer  through input device(s) . Input devices  include, but are not limited to, a pointing device (such as a mouse, trackball, stylus, or the like), a keyboard, a microphone, a joystick, a satellite dish, a scanner, a TV tuner card, a digital camera, a digital video camera, a web camera, and\/or the like. The input devices  connect to the processing unit  through the system bus  via interface port(s) . Interface port(s)  include, for example, a serial port, a parallel port, a game port, and a universal serial bus (USB).","Output device(s)  use some of the same type of ports as input device(s) . Thus, for example, a USB port may be used to provide input to the computer  and to output information from computer  to an output device . Information rendered by the subject innovation may appear on an output device .","Output adapter  is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices  like monitors, speakers, and printers, among other output devices , which are accessible via adapters. The output adapters  include, by way of illustration and not limitation, video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device  and the system bus . It can be noted that other devices and\/or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer(s) .","The computer  can be a server hosting a social network website in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as remote computer(s) . The remote computer(s)  may be client systems configured with web browsers, PC applications, mobile phone applications, and the like, to allow users to browse the Internet, as discussed herein. The remote computer(s)  can be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a workstation, a microprocessor based appliance, a mobile phone, a peer device or other common network node and the like, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer . For purposes of brevity, only a memory storage device  is illustrated with remote computer(s) . Remote computer(s)  is logically connected to the computer  through a network interface  and then physically connected via a communication connection .","Network interface  encompasses wire and\/or wireless communication networks such as local-area networks (LAN) and wide-area networks (WAN). LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI), Copper Distributed Data Interface (CDDI), Ethernet, Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include, but are not limited to, point-to-point links, circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDN) and variations thereon, packet switching networks, and Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL).","Communication connection(s)  refers to the hardware\/software employed to connect the network interface  to the bus . While communication connection  is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer , it can also be external to the computer . The hardware\/software for connection to the network interface  may include, for exemplary purposes only, internal and external technologies such as, mobile phone switches, modems including regular telephone grade modems, cable modems and DSL modems, ISDN adapters, and Ethernet cards.","An exemplary embodiment of the computer  may comprise a server computer in a social network with a web server. An exemplary processing unit  for the client may be a computing cluster comprising Intel\u00ae Xeon CPUs. The disk storage  may comprise an enterprise data storage system, for example, holding thousands of user pages.","What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly, the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.","In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components, devices, circuits, systems and the like, the terms (including a reference to a \u201cmeans\u201d) used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., a functional equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure, which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard, it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions for performing the acts and\/or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.","There are multiple ways of implementing the subject innovation, e.g., an appropriate API, tool kit, driver code, operating system, control, standalone or downloadable software object, etc., which enables applications and services to use the techniques described herein. The claimed subject matter contemplates the use from the standpoint of an API (or other software object), as well as from a software or hardware object that operates according to the techniques set forth herein. Thus, various implementations of the subject innovation described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware, partly in hardware and partly in software, as well as wholly in software.","The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub-components, some of the specified components or sub-components, and\/or additional components, and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub-components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components (hierarchical). Additionally, it can be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub-components, and any one or more middle layers, such as a management layer, may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub-components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.","In addition, while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d \u201chas,\u201d \u201ccontains,\u201d variants thereof, and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims, these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
