---
title: Providing security in a cloud storage environment
abstract: A method of providing security as a service in a cloud storage environment includes storing, through a cloud manager of the cloud storage environment, a security level of access of a storage controller associated with a customer of the security as a service, and receiving a request from the customer to access security information of the storage controller associated therewith. The method also includes providing, through the cloud manager, security information of the storage controller associated with the customer in accordance with the request and the stored security level of access of the storage controller associated with the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676710&OS=08676710&RS=08676710
owner: NetApp, Inc.
number: 08676710
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110411
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY","FIELD OF TECHNOLOGY","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This is a Continuation in Part Application and claims priority from U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12\/951,089 titled: \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING STORAGE SECURITY IN A CLOUD COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT\u201d filed on Nov. 22, 2010.","This disclosure relates generally to cloud storage environments and, more particularly, to a method, an apparatus, and\/or a system of providing security in a cloud storage environment.","In a cloud computing environment, storage requirements of one or more client device(s) may be flexibly met through a corresponding one or more storage controller(s) configured to host one or more virtual server(s) appropriately provisioned thereto. A cloud administrator may have the requisite privileges to configure a virtual server associated with a client device on any storage controller. Also, for example, the cloud administrator may accidentally or maliciously run destructive commands configured to compromise the security of data associated with the client device. An unauthorized outsider\/user may also break into the system and perform the aforementioned act of malice.","Tampering of the hardware and\/or software associated with a storage controller may result in a customer of the cloud service operating at the client device experiencing a compromised quality of service. To address the aforementioned problems, a set of capabilities may be defined in a role and assigned to a customer of the cloud service. Although the role-based model may provide structure, the unauthorized outsider\/user may still possess the requisite means to access data associated with the customer that resides on the storage controllers. The incapability of the customer to remotely verify the integrity and the confidentiality of cloud resources (e.g., storage controller(s)) configured to process and\/or store data associated therewith may imply that the customer possesses no means to ensure the integrity and the confidentiality of his\/her data and the computation associated therewith.","Disclosed are a method, an apparatus, and\/or a system of providing security in a cloud storage environment.","In one aspect, a method of providing security as a service in a cloud environment includes storing, through a cloud manager of the cloud storage environment, a security level of access of a storage controller associated with a customer of the security as a service. The cloud manager is configured to provision storage in the cloud storage environment. The method also includes receiving a request from the customer to access security information of the storage controller associated therewith, and providing, through the cloud manager, security information of the storage controller associated with the customer in accordance with the request and the stored security level of access of the storage controller associated with the customer.","In another aspect, a method of transacting a storage security service in a cloud environment includes implementing, through a cloud manager of the cloud storage environment, security as a service in the cloud storage environment. The cloud manager is configured to provision storage in the cloud storage environment. The method also includes transmitting, to a customer of the security as a service, security information about a storage controller associated therewith in accordance with a security level of access provided thereto through the cloud manager. Further, the method includes generating, through the cloud manager, an invoice associated with the security service to the customer on a basis of an amount of security information requested thereby in accordance with the security level of access and the security information transmitted thereto.","In yet another aspect, a cloud storage environment providing security as a service includes a client device associated with a customer of the security as a service, a storage controller configured to host one or more server(s) associated with the customer, and a cloud manager configured to provision storage associated with the client device in the cloud storage environment. The cloud manager is further configured to enable storage of a security level of access of the storage controller associated with the customer in a database associated therewith, receive a request from the customer to access security information of the storage controller, and provide security information of the storage controller associated with the customer in accordance with the request and the stored security level of access of the storage controller associated with the customer.","The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects, and may be executed in a form of a machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.","Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.","Example embodiments, as described below, may be used to provide security as a service in a cloud storage environment. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","104","106","104","106","102","104","102","102"],"sub":["1\u2212N ","1\u2212N ","1\u2212N "]},"In one or more embodiments, host devices may indicate customers of services provided through network  or users\/departments associated with an organization (e.g., an Information Technology (IT) organization). In one or more embodiments, each host device may have storage associated therewith. For the aforementioned purpose, in one or more embodiments, isolated logical virtual storage partitions (not shown) may be created on storage system  through an operating system (e.g., NetApp\u00ae's Data ONTAP\u00ae operating system) associated therewith. In one or more embodiments, therefore, each virtual storage partition may be associated with a host device . In one or more embodiments, information on a secured virtual storage partition may solely be accessed by the host device associated therewith.","In one or more embodiments, storage system  may include a storage server (e.g., file server ) and may be associated with a set of mass storage devices (e.g., disks ). In one or more embodiments, file server  may be configured to receive read\/write requests from host devices and to respond appropriately. In one or more embodiments, the requests may be directed to data stored in\/to be stored in disks . Disks may be, for example, conventional magnetic disks, optical disks such as compact disks-read only memory (CD-ROM) or digital versatile\/video disks (DVD) based storage, magneto-optical (MO) storage, or any other type of non-volatile storage devices suitable for storing large quantities of data. In one or more embodiments, file server  may be construed as the \u201cmanager\u201d of storage system . In one or more embodiments, a main purpose of file server  may be to provide a location or location(s) for shared disk access (e.g., shared storage of computer data) configured to be accessed by host devices .","In one or more embodiments, the operating system associated with storage system  may support data sets associated with protocols including but not limited to Network File System (NFS) protocol, Common Internet File System (CIFS) protocol, Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) protocol, Hypertext Transfer (HTTP) protocol, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), FTP-Secure (FTPS) protocol, Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP), and Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP). In one or more embodiments, a host device may be configured to interact with storage system  according to a client\/server model of information delivery. For example, host device may request the services of storage system , and storage system  may return the results (e.g., through packets) through network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","102","200","200","202","1","206","3","210","200","204","2","208","4","212","5","214","202","204","220","1","232","2","234"]},"In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may enable the one or more client devices to self-provision computing resources thereof. In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may manage cloud portion(s) (e.g., cloud  , cloud  ) associated with client   and client  . Client   and\/or client   may log into a console associated with cloud manager  to access cloud   and\/or cloud   (and virtual machines (VMs) therein) through a public network  (e.g., Internet). The client devices and\/or VMs (as discussed below) associated therewith provided in cloud environment  may be analogous to host devices of . The VMs, for example, may run applications\/application programs associated with the client devices. As a VM may be a software implementation of a \u201cphysical machine,\u201d the VM may share physical resources with one or more VM(s).","In order to address storage requirements\/requests associated with client   and client  , cloud manager  may be configured to appropriately provision vserver  , vserver  , vserver  , vserver   and vserver   and allocate to client   and client  . The aforementioned vservers may be virtualized entities utilized by client   and client   to meet storage requirements thereof. Multi-tenancy may allow for a storage controller to have multiple vservers (e.g., vserver   and vserver   associated with storage controller , and vserver  , vserver   and vserver   associated with storage controller ) associated therewith. A portion of the cloud (e.g., cloud  ) including vserver  , vserver   and virtual machines (VMs; e.g., VM , VM ) associated therewith may be associated with client   and a portion of the cloud (e.g., cloud  ) including vserver  , vserver   and vserver   and VMs (e.g., VM , VM , VM ) associated therewith may be associated with client  . In one or more embodiments, VMs may reside on storage exposed by vserver(s). It is obvious that physical machines may be associated with the clients (e.g., client  , client  ) instead of VMs.","The aforementioned cloud portions may be logical subsets of the cloud and may include VMs implemented with operating systems (e.g., Linux, Microsoft\u00ae's Windows\u00ae). \u201cCloud\u201d as used herein may refer to the large pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., virtualized computing resources) that may be subjected to a pay-per-use model, in which client(s) may enter into service agreement(s) with service provider(s). The portion of the \u201ccloud,\u201d therefore, may refer to the pool of resources associated with a particular client. It is obvious that client   and\/or client   may be entities (e.g., corporations), and that there may be a number of host devices associated with each of client   and\/or client  .","Cloud   and\/or cloud   may span across several geographic regions. In one or more embodiments, the aforementioned cloud portions may span multiple countries under differing jurisdictional guidelines. For example, a jurisdictional guideline may deem that a vserver needs to be launched on hardware (e.g., storage controller) located in the same jurisdiction as the corresponding client(s). In one or more embodiments, administrators of cloud environment  may possess the authority to launch one or more vservers on any of storage controller  and storage controller , irrespective of the location(s) thereof. Further, in one or more embodiments, the aforementioned one or more vservers may be associated with one or more versions of a storage operating system (e.g., NetApp\u00ae's Data ONTAP\u00ae operating system).","For example, an administrator may modify the version of the storage operating system and\/or configuration settings on storage controller  and\/or storage controller . In another example, an administrator may provision a vserver on a storage controller offering lower performance and\/or located in a geographic region different from that of a client device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["6","302","304","1","232","1","252","6","302","312","314","304","304","1","232","2","234","304","1","232","1","232"]},"Other threats arising from the \u201cunsecure\u201d state of cloud environment  may include an administrator configuring storage through a storage controller having a tampered version of a storage operating system associated therewith and\/or a tampered version of a Basic Input\/Output System (BIOS) associated therewith and\/or a storage controller having compromised security settings. For example, the administrator may perform configuration changes to vserver   so that client   may also access vserver  . Client   may not be aware of the \u201cunsecure\u201d state of cloud environment , the \u201cunsecure\u201d state being caused due to at least the abovementioned reasons.","In one or more embodiments, incorporating a secure microcontroller (e.g., a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip) on storage controller(s) associated with the one or more client device(s) and a set of authentication protocols may enable a client device (e.g., a cloud customer) to verify the authenticity of the storage controller(s) owned by the cloud service provider. In one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may be configured to store authentication and\/or attestation data associated with the storage controller(s), as will be discussed below. In one or more embodiments, the aforementioned data may include passwords, certificates and\/or encryption keys. In one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may be utilized to ensure the trustworthiness of the platform associated with the storage controller through storing and comparing a platform measurement list. In one or more embodiments, the platform measurement list may be a sequence of signatures (e.g., hashes) of the set of instructions involved in the boot sequence, viz., the BIOS, the boot-loader and\/or the software implementing the platform. In one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may utilize an RSA algorithm, a Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA; e.g., SHA-1) and\/or a Hash-based Method Authentication Code (HMAC) algorithm for cryptography purposes. Thus, in one or more embodiments, the measurement list associated with the storage controller may be obtained in encrypted form at a client device.","In one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may not be able to control the set of instructions (e.g., software) executing on the storage controller(s). Although the secure microcontroller may be configured to store pre-runtime configuration parameters associated with the storage controller(s), policies associated with the aforementioned parameters may be determined and implemented through other applications. In one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may expose standard Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) configured to be utilized by an application to interact therewith.","In one or more embodiments, interfacing the secure microcontroller with the storage controller(s) may be accomplished through a permanent soldering of the motherboard associated with the storage controller hardware. In one or more embodiments, thus, a one-on-one mapping between the secure microcontroller and the platform interfaced therewith may be provided. In one or more embodiments, data bound to a particular platform may solely be accessible to that platform. In one or more embodiments, if the data is configured to migrate to a different platform and\/or if the binding conditions associated with the particular platform are not met, the data may not be accessible. In an example embodiment, when the secure microcontroller is utilized for platform attestation, a software stack associated therewith may be configured to calculate information about the platform and\/or to store a measurement list associated with the storage controller in a configuration register available within the secure microcontroller.","\u201cSignature data\u201d may be a broad term encompassing \u201cmeasurement list.\u201d Although \u201cmeasurement list\u201d is used frequently below, \u201cmeasurement list\u201d may be construed to indicate \u201csignature data.\u201d For example, \u201cmeasurement list\u201d of a storage controller is an example of \u201csignature data\u201d associated with the storage controller.","Thus, in one or more embodiments, the secure microcontroller may be utilized on the storage controller(s) for platform authentication purposes. In one or more embodiments, the storage controller(s) may need to be capable of responding to requests from the client device(s) associated with authentication of the hardware. For example, the client (e.g., a customer) may want to verify specific information associated with the appropriate storage controller(s) including but not limited to the BIOS version, the storage operating system version, the configuration information and hardware identification information to ensure that data served thereto is as per the agreement with the cloud service provider.","In one or more embodiments, to enable attestation of the one or more storage controller(s) through the one or more client device(s), the one or more storage controller(s) configured to serve the one or more client device(s) may need to undergo a registration process with an authentication server configured to be set up in the cloud jointly by a client and a cloud service provider based on an agreement. In one or more embodiments, the authentication server may be based on any operating system (e.g., Microsoft\u00ae's Windows\u00ae, Linux), and may also include a secure microcontroller. In one or more embodiments, as agreed by the client and the cloud service provider, only authorized persons may be allowed to access the authentication server. For example, A may be the cloud service provider and B may maintain the authentication server. The authentication server maintained by third-party B may be accessible both from the services side (A) and from the customer side (e.g., client).","In one or more embodiments, whenever a storage controller is added to the cloud associated with the client device (e.g., cloud   associated with client  ), an administrator may configure the storage controller with authentication information including an encrypted measurement list associated with the authentication server. In one or more embodiments, an administrator of the authentication server may configure the authentication server with an encrypted measurement list associated with the storage controller. In one or more embodiments, the storage controller may then undergo a registration process with the authentication server.  shows the exchange of messages between authentication server  and a storage controller  (analogous to the storage controllers of  and ) during the registration process, according to one or more embodiments. In one or more embodiments, storage controller  may include a secure microcontroller (not shown) associated therewith.","In one or more embodiments, the aforementioned registration process may establish a trusted key pair, as will be discussed below. In one example embodiment, the measurement lists associated with authentication server  and storage controller  may be compared in an analogous manner to, for example, checking of passwords during a login process associated with Linux. In one or more embodiments, once storage controller  is attested, authentication server  may be configured to add storage controller  to a list of trusted storage controller(s) and store the trusted key pair in a memory associated therewith. In one or more embodiments, the key pairs generated during the attestation may be temporary, and authentication server  or storage controller  may have to undergo the registration process again during a reboot thereof to establish a new key pair. In one or more embodiments, if the configuration, the software and\/or other attributes associated with storage controller  changes, the registration process may fail and the client(s) may immediately be cognizant of the change in the cloud associated therewith.","In one or more embodiments, whenever a client (e.g., a user at a client device) wants to verify the authenticity of a storage controller, a series of messages may be exchanged between the client, authentication server  and storage controller . In one or more embodiments, the client may obtain the measurement list of storage controller , and may verify the measurement list. In one or more embodiments, upon verification of the measurement list of storage controller , the authenticity of storage controller  may, in turn, be verified.","In one or more embodiments, the registration process may be in the form of a protocol. In one or more embodiments, discussion of the registration protocol may be carried out with reference to . In one or more embodiments, the registration process may commence with storage controller  transmitting a challenge message to authentication server . The challenge message may include a random number or a pseudo-random number (e.g., nonce n). In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may now generate a private key thereof, obtain a measurement list thereof, and encrypt the data with the private key generated, along with nonce n. In one or more embodiments, also, authentication server  may transmit a challenge to storage controller  with an own random number or a pseudo-random number (e.g., nonce n) encrypted using the generated private key.","In one or more embodiments, storage controller , while generating nonce n, may have generated keys therefor. Therefore, in one or more embodiments, when authentication server  transmits the encrypted message thereof to storage controller , storage controller  may be configured to decrypt the message using a public part of the key(s) generated during generation of nonce nand to check whether nonce nmatches with a number in the encrypted message transmitted thereto. In one or more embodiments, if there is a match, storage controller  may be configured to check the measurement list of authentication server  to authenticate authentication server .","Now, in one or more embodiments, if authentication server  is authenticated (after nonce nis matched), storage controller  may be configured to transmit the measurement list thereof with nonce n(received from authentication server ) encrypted with the private key to authentication server . In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may be configured to decrypt the message from authentication server  using the public portion of the key(s) and to match a measurement list associated therewith in a database thereof. In one or more embodiments, again, authentication server  may be configured to match nonce nin the message received from storage controller . In one or more embodiments, if both result in matches, authentication server  may be configured to transmit a confirmation message indicating that storage controller  is \u201ctrusted.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["404","402","502","404","402","504","402","402","404","506","402","404"],"sub":["SC","SC ","AS ","SC "]},"In one or more embodiments, operation  may then involve checking as to whether nonce ntransmitted from storage controller  matches with a content of the message received from authentication server . In one or more embodiments, the measurement list of authentication server  may also be checked to authenticate authentication server . In one or more embodiments, if there is a match of n, operation  may then involve storage controller  replying with a measurement list thereof and nonce nreceived from authentication server  encrypted with the private key to authentication server  as a message.","In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may then be configured to decrypt the message from storage controller  using the public portion of the key(s) in operation . In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve checking as to whether nonce nfirst transmitted from authentication server  matches with a content of the message received from storage controller . In one or more embodiments, the measurement list of storage controller  may also be matched with a database at authentication server . In one or more embodiments, following a match of nonce nand the measurement list of storage controller , operation  may involve transmitting a message from authentication server  to storage controller  indicating that storage controller  is \u201ctrusted.\u201d In one or more embodiments, in case of failures associated with the nonce matches, an error message (e.g., \u201cregistration failure\u201d) may be generated.","As discussed above, in one or more embodiments, when a client wants to verify the authenticity of storage controller , a series of messages may be exchanged between the client, authentication server  and storage controller .  illustrates the exchange of messages between client  (analogous to client   and client  ), cloud manager (e.g., cloud manager ), authentication server  and storage controller . In one or more embodiments, cloud manager , authentication server  and storage controller  may be part of a cloud . As shown in , numbers - along the arrows between client , cloud manager , authentication server  and storage controller  may indicate a sequential order to data flow associated with cloud .","In one or more embodiments, client  may initiate an authentication request to cloud manager . In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may then request authentication server  for purposes of attesting storage controller . In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may then transmit an authentication request to storage controller  with a nonce n(may\/may not be the same as ndiscussed with regard to ) and a measurement list thereof encrypted using the private key established during the registration process discussed with regard to  and . In one or more embodiments, storage controller  may then be configured to decrypt the message transmitted from authentication server  using the public portion of the key shared between authentication server  and storage controller  and to verify the measurement list of authentication server . In one or more embodiments, storage controller  may also transmit a measurement list thereof and the challenge message with the nonce nencrypted using the private key thereof.","In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may then be configured to decrypt the message from storage controller  using the public key shared therebetween. In one or more embodiments, if nmatches with the challenge message previously transmitted from authentication server  and if the measurement list of storage controller  matches with the stored copy at authentication server , authentication server  may be configured to transmit a message to storage controller  indicating that storage controller  is \u201ctrusted,\u201d as discussed above.","In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may then transmit the signature data (e.g., measurement list; shown as signature data  (obtained in sequence 6) in ) of storage controller  to the client. In one or more embodiments, thus, the client may be able to verify the integrity of storage controller  (e.g., storage controller ) configured to host one or more vserver(s) (e.g., vserver  ) associated with the client (e.g., client  ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["404","602","702","602","220","704","220","402","404","706","402","404","402"],"sub":"AS "},"In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve decryption of the message transmitted from authentication server  at storage controller  using the public portion of the key. In one or more embodiments, the measurement list of authentication server  may also be verified at storage controller . In one or more embodiments, operation  may then involve transmitting, from storage controller  to authentication server , the measurement list of storage controller , along with nonce nassociated with the previous transmission from authentication server , encrypted using the private key thereof.","In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve decrypting the message from storage controller  at authentication server  using the public portion of the key. In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve verifying as to whether a content of the message matches with nonce ntransmitted first from authentication server  to storage controller . In one or more embodiments, the measurement list of storage controller  may also be verified for a match with the stored copy at authentication server . In one or more embodiments, if both are matches, operation  may involve transmitting a message from authentication server  to storage controller  indicating that storage controller  is \u201ctrusted.\u201d","In one or more embodiments, operation  may then involve transmitting the measurement list of storage controller  from authentication server  to cloud manager . In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve transmitting the measurement list of storage controller  to client  (e.g., client  ). In one or more embodiments, if the abovementioned nonce match fails, an error message (e.g., \u201cauthentication failure\u201d) may be generated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["802","404","802","404","812","404","802","804","404","804","802","804","402"]},"In one or more embodiments, secure microcontroller aware application  may also communicate with secure microcontroller  and BIOS  of storage controller  through device driver(s)  written therefor for purposes of storing and retrieving security data (e.g., keys, platform measurement list(s)). In one or more embodiments, device driver(s)  may be a part of the kernel associated with storage operating system  configured to execute on storage controller .","When one or more storage controller(s) are associated with a cloud, the exemplary embodiments discussed above may aid in a customer (e.g., client) of the cloud remotely verifying that the one or more storage controller(s) are \u201ctrustworthy.\u201d In one or more embodiments, the cloud customer may verify attributes of the one or more storage controller(s) such as the BIOS version, the operating system version and\/or physical hardware identification attributes. In one or more embodiments, thus, customers seeking sensitivity\/security of data may consider opting for cloud computing to meet storage requirements thereof.","In one or more embodiments, as discussed above, secure microcontroller  may be a TPM chip. Therefore, in one or more embodiments, cloud customers may utilize software configured to communicate with the servers having TPM modules associated therewith to fetch information associated with the hosts. As TPM modules have found wide technological use, already existing software may be remodeled quickly in order to verify authenticity of the one or more storage controller(s). Thus, the exemplary embodiments may provide for a consistent and secure cloud computing system, which may be completely TPM based.","It is obvious that the capability of the client(s) to query the one or more storage controllers(s) to obtain a measurement list is the same as the capability of the client(s) to query the vserver(s) associated with the one or more storage controller(s) to obtain the measurement list. Further, it is obvious that the measurement list of storage controller  may also be transmitted to a client device periodically without the client device querying storage controller .","In one or more embodiments, cloud service providers may have service agreements (e.g., Service Level Agreements (SLAs)) for users in the cloud environment to provide flexibility in the number of servers associated with each of the users, availability (e.g., to address persistent storage use, amount of storage use) of storage to each of the users, network performance (e.g., jitter, latency, packet loss), engineering support, cloud monitoring (e.g., providing resource usage statistics, demand patterns, metrics such as processor utilization, memory utilization etc. to each of the users) and auto-scaling (e.g., during heavy usage) of the cloud associated with a user. Thus, the cloud service providers may provide services associated with a tiered network service, tiered performance, tiered storage space, tired cloud monitoring service, tiered engineering support, tiered cloud auto-scaling, and\/or tiered server utilization to the users in accordance with service agreement(s).","In one or more embodiments, the abovementioned security of the cloud environment may also be provided as a service agreement (e.g., SLA) between a service provider and a user in the cloud environment. In one or more embodiments, the service agreement may be associated with the service provider providing tiers (e.g., price dependent) of service to the user. In one or more embodiments, as part of the service agreement, user authentication may be provided based on the necessity and the type thereof. It is obvious that the cloud user may refer to the consumers of entities provisioned inside the cloud (e.g., client ; analogous to client   and client  ). For example, the consumers may be  engineers requesting for VMs having 1 GB of Random Access Memory (RAM) associated therewith in a cloud environment (e.g., cloud environment ). The cloud access of the aforementioned consumers may be managed at the client side through one or more system administrator(s), who may possess the privileges to request the cloud manager (e.g., cloud manager ) for the 100 VMs.","In the abovementioned example, the need for user authentication may be decided through the one or more system administrator(s) at the client side. The one or more system administrator(s) may opt for user authentication to verify details of the consumer(s) logged in and\/or the activity thereof.","The secure microcontroller (e.g., secure microcontroller ; TPM) discussion associated with  is an example of hardware based user authentication. For example, secure microcontroller  may communicate with authentication server  for purposes of authentication and attestation. In one or more embodiments, the hardware based authentication may be preferable to a software based authentication (e.g., through Secure Shell (SSH); public-key cryptography) implemented in the cloud environment because the software based authentication is performed using the central processor (e.g., Central Processing Unit (CPU)) associated with storage controller  and the hardware based authentication is performed utilizing secure microcontroller , thereby freeing the central processor for other important tasks. However, as exemplary embodiments discussed herein are directed to security based service agreement(s) in the cloud environment, it is obvious that the software based authentication also is within the scope thereof.","Thus, in one or more embodiments, both hardware based authentication and software based authentication may be provided as options to the customer (the user), who may choose one over the other based on need, preference and\/or available budget. In one or more embodiments, the service provider may bill the user on the basis of the type of authentication. For example, hardware based authentication may be priced higher than software based authentication because of the involvement of a separate secure microcontroller  therefor.","In one or more embodiments, the platform attestation process may also come under the purview of the service agreement. In one or more embodiments, the platform attestation process associated with a storage controller may result in an attestation success\/failure indication. In one or more embodiments, through the platform attestation process, the cloud user may attest to the platform on which data associated therewith is configured to be stored. In one or more embodiments, the platform attestation may verify as to whether all applications are executing on the same platform in accordance with the service agreement between the cloud service provider and the cloud user, and whether there are any violations\/threats including but not limited to degraded performance and data migration outside the platform agreed to. In one or more embodiments, the platform attestation may also ensure that the software stack associated with the \u201cstorage system\u201d of the cloud user and\/or the configuration parameter(s) associated with storage controller  are not erroneously or maliciously modified (e.g., by cloud administrator(s)).","Thus, in one or more embodiments, as per the service agreement between the cloud user and the service provider, the user may pay to receive the attestation success\/failure confirmation. In one or more embodiments, as part of the platform attestation process, the cloud user may receive an encrypted form of signature data (e.g., measurement list discussed above) of storage controller  associated therewith. In one or more embodiments, the aforementioned signature data reception may, again, be dependent on the service agreement between the cloud user and the service provider. In one or more embodiments, based on the price-based service model available to the cloud user, a user who pays the minimum may merely receive the attestation success\/failure confirmation. In one or more embodiments, a user who pays more may receive the encrypted form of signature data and other parameters based on the price-based service model.","In one or more embodiments, as discussed above, the signature data may be the measurement list associated with storage controller . In one or more embodiments, again as discussed above, the measurement list may be a sequence of hashes of the set of instructions involved in the boot sequence, viz., the BIOS, the boot-loader and\/or the set of instructions (e.g., software) implementing the platform. In one or more embodiments, the measurement list may be in an encrypted form, and may be obtained at a client device as discussed with reference to . In one or more embodiments, the cloud user may decrypt the signature data (e.g., measurement list) to allow for comparison\/verification thereof with the configuration agreed to with the service provider. Thus, in one or more embodiments, validity of the signature data and\/or security may be verified therethrough. For example, the user may be able to check whether the cloud administrator has tampered with the configuration of storage controller  associated therewith.","In one or more embodiments, as discussed above, the platform attestation process may also yield signature data of storage controller  based on the service agreement between the user and the service provider. In one or more embodiments, the cloud user may choose different parameters of the signature data (e.g., measurement list) based on requirement, necessity, budget and\/or preference. In one or more embodiments, the service provider may bill the cloud user on the basis of the number of parameters and the type of parameters opted for, as will be discussed below. In one or more embodiments, the cloud user may request for parameters other than the parameters associated with the signature data of storage controller , depending on the price-based service model. In one or more embodiments, the parameters other than the parameters associated with the signature data may include but are not limited to one or more configuration file(s) and storage system information.","In an example scenario, a user may have agreed to an operating system version associated with the vserver(s) through another service agreement. On top of the aforementioned service agreement, the user may subscribe to security service(s) in the cloud environment. The user, therefore, may be able to query cloud manager  to obtain data associated with the security service(s). As per subscription to the user authentication process, the user may be able to verify if the operating system associated therewith is the same. However, if the operating system (e.g., NetApp\u00ae's Data ONTAP\u00ae operating system) version changes, the user may only be able to obtain information regarding the \u201cnew\u201d version of the operating system through subscribing to the service associated with receiving appropriate parameters along with the encrypted signature data.","In one or more embodiments, different levels of checking with authentication server  may be priced differently. For example, at the bare minimum level, only the operating system version may be checked for. At higher levels, the user\/customer may be able to obtain information regarding the BIOS, the hardware configuration, the checksum of all executable files etc. In one or more embodiments, the difference in pricing between lower levels of security and higher levels may be due to more of the infrastructure associated with the service provider being involved in service(s) associated with the higher levels than the lower levels.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["902","904","906","404","908"]},"In one or more embodiments, if yes, operation  may involve the user receiving the encrypted form of the signature data and parameters other than the parameters associated with the signature data, as per the service agreement, along with the platform attestation success\/failure confirmation and the user being subjected to a hardware\/software based authentication process depending on the service chosen. In other word, the aforementioned data may be transmitted from cloud manager  (or, authentication server ) to the user (e.g., client ). In one or more embodiments, as discussed above, the encrypted form of the signature data received by the user may, again, depend on the service level opted for by the user. In one or more embodiments, if the result of operation  is a no, operation  may involve the user receiving the encrypted form of the signature data alone, along with the platform attestation success\/failure confirmation and the user being subjected to the hardware\/software based authentication process. In one or more embodiments, if the result of operation  is a no, operation  may involve the user merely receiving the platform attestation success\/failure confirmation, as discussed above, along with the user being subjected to the hardware\/software based authentication process. Again, in one or more embodiments, the relevant data may be transmitted to the user (e.g., client ) from cloud manager  (or, authentication server ), as per the service agreement.","In one or more embodiments, if the result of operation  is a no, operation  may involve the user merely being authenticated through software or hardware based means, depending on the service chosen. In one or more embodiments, if the result of operation  is a no, the user may not have opted for cloud security as a service, thereby implying the termination of the process. It is obvious that other ways of providing security to the user through the service provider and\/or variations in implementations thereof are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments.","In one or more embodiments, in order to enforce the security based service agreements discussed above and to enforce billing on the basis of the provided security service, the cloud manager (e.g., cloud manager ) may need to be modified. In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may enforce billing through a debit-credit mechanism, whereby the price associated with service(s) requested for in the service agreement may be regarded as a \u201cdebit\u201d amount, or, the amount that is billed to the user\/customer. In one or more embodiments, the implementation of the debit-credit mechanism may include storing the cost(s) (e.g., as part of a data structure associated with the user) associated with the levels of security provided to the user\/customer in a database associated with cloud manager . In one or more embodiments, an amount associated with the security service to the user may then be automatically added (e.g., by accessing and updating the data structure) as a \u201cdebit\u201d amount associated with the security service invoice to the user.","In one or more embodiments, whenever there is an interruption of service, impossibility of service, denial of service and\/or a violation of the service agreement (e.g., accidentally through the service provider), cloud manager  may \u201ccredit\u201d the amount to the user\/customer. In other words, in one or more embodiments, the amount that corresponds to the interruption of service, impossibility of service, denial of service and\/or the violation of the service agreement may be subtracted from the \u201cdebit\u201d amount. For example, the amount of security information requested by the user\/customer (or, preferred security information) may be compared (e.g., through a processor) to the actual security information transmitted to the user\/customer. If the preferred security information and the actual security information do not correspond, an amount corresponding to the lack of correspondence may be determined (e.g., by prorating the cost(s) by accessing the data structure) and subtracted from the \u201cdebit\u201d amount. In one or more embodiments, the consolidated bill for the user may, thus, be generated through cloud manager .","In an example scenario, the service agreement between the service provider and the user\/customer may include the user\/customer obtaining platform information of a storage controller associated therewith. When the user\/customer is unable to receive the aforementioned platform information due to failure of infrastructure equipment maintained by the service provider, the cost associated with obtaining the platform information may be refunded to the user\/customer through the debit-credit mechanism discussed above. As discussed above, the cost associated with obtaining the platform information may be stored in the database associated with cloud manager . The cost may be preset\/predetermined based on the quantity of infrastructure equipment (e.g., computing device(s)) being utilized by the platform determination process and\/or the time of utilization thereof. The preset\/predetermined cost(s) associated with processes requiring to be initiated through all the security levels of customer access may be determined by the storage provider and stored a database as a reference.","Failure of the infrastructure equipment may, again, be determined through comparing the security information transmitted to the user\/customer with the preferred security information because the differences therein correspond to the utilization of an appropriate infrastructure equipment or a lack thereof. Alternately, status information associated with infrastructure equipment configured to be utilized during the procurement of the security information may be transmitted to the computing system associated with cloud manager  upon polling thereof through cloud manager . If the status information transmitted to the computing system associated with cloud manager  indicates a failure, the data structure associated with the security service invoice to the user\/customer may be appropriately updated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1002","1004","1006","1008"]},"In one or more embodiments, the abovementioned consolidated bill may be generated periodically (e.g., monthly) based on the customer\/user preference and\/or the policy of the service provider. It is obvious that the abovementioned method of generating the customer\/user bill is merely an example and that other variations thereof are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments. For example, the user may be provided an interface to view the list of options provided by the service provider associated with security in the cloud environment.  shows an example user interface  (e.g., provided through cloud manager ) listing the options associated with providing security to the customer\/user through the service provider, according to one or more embodiments. In one or more embodiments, as shown in , user interface  may provide options such as user authentication , user authentication+platform attestation , user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data (e.g., of storage controller  associated with the customer\/user)  and user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data+other parameters . In one or more embodiments, the cost per month associated with each of the aforementioned options is also shown in .","In the example embodiment of , mere user authentication  may cost $9.99\/month, user authentication+platform attestation  may cost $19.99\/month, and user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data  may cost $29.99-$49.99\/month, depending on the parameters requested in the encrypted signature data. For example, the customer\/user (e.g., system administrator at the client side) may click the virtual representation of the options (e.g., user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data ) in user interface  and then choose the parameters desired. User authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data+other parameters  may cost $39.99-$99.99\/month, depending on both the parameters requested in the encrypted signature data and the other parameters chosen. Again, the customer\/user may click the virtual representation of the appropriate options in user interface  (e.g., user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data , user authentication+platform attestation+encrypted signature data+other parameters ) and then choose the parameters desired.","As cost(s) associated with the security levels of service may be stored in the database associated with cloud manager , whenever a user\/customer initiates the process of procuring security information of the storage controller associated therewith, the user\/customer may first be authenticated based on an identifier thereof, following which the appropriate security level of access may be retrieved. If the user\/customer is not authenticated, he\/she is prevented from receiving any security information through cloud manager . When authenticated, the user\/customer may be serviced based on the corresponding security level of service. As use of infrastructure equipment involved in the levels of service may vary (e.g., authentication server  being utilized more in a higher level of service than a lower level), the invoice associated with the user\/customer may be appropriately generated through the debit\/credit mechanism discussed above.","In one or more embodiments, the user may pay for the service through credit card, debit card, check etc. Again, the abovementioned option of billing\/providing options to the user\/customer is merely an example, and alternatives are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments. For example, the user\/customer may be provided options through snail mail or a company promotional offer. The user may receive statement(s) associated with the consolidated bill periodically (e.g., monthly) through e-mail or snail mail. The user\/customer may also pay for an immediate service, i.e., the user authentication, platform attestation, reception of encrypted signature data may be an immediate \u201cpay and receive\u201d process.","The term \u201cuser\/customer\u201d has been used above to denote an entity. The entity may be a company, corporation, university, non-profit organization etc. The entity may even be an individual. The entity may also be an organization that sponsors an individual (e.g., a university sponsoring a student). In one or more embodiments, the security based service agreement discussed above may be combined with other service agreement(s) (e.g., Internet\/e-mail service). For example, an Internet service provider may also provide cloud storage for the user\/customer, and may decide on a security based service agreement therefor. In another scenario, an individual user may have a salary account with a bank (e.g., bank ABCD). The individual user may also have an e-mail account with bank ABCD. Thus, if bank ABCD opts for cloud security service agreements, the individual user may also be bound thereto.","In one or more embodiments, when cloud manager  (or, authentication server ) receives a request for security related service(s), authentication server  may be configured to verify the request for eligibility of the user to receive the appropriate service associated therewith. In one or more embodiments, authentication server  may be configured to act as per the request, i.e., configured to enable cloud manager  respond to the user appropriately. In other words, as shown in , authentication server  may be configured to transmit data in accordance with the user request to cloud manager . Cloud manager  may then transmit the data to the user (e.g., client ), as discussed with reference to .","In one or more embodiments, if the user is found ineligible, an error message may be transmitted from authentication server \/cloud manager  to the user. In one or more embodiments, cloud manager  may have a database (not shown) associated therewith that includes user information such as the tier of service associated with the user\/consumer (e.g., client ). In one or more embodiments, the tier of service requested may be paid for by the user\/customer. In one or more embodiments, the verification of user (e.g., client ) information by authentication server  may be performed utilizing the aforementioned database.","In one or more embodiments, as discussed above, the security based service agreement may be combined with one or more other service agreement(s). In an example embodiment, the user may have entered into a performance based service agreement (e.g., SLA) with a service provider, who may offer load balancing of vserver(s) as a service option. Thus, the user may reap the benefits of optimum performance along with a secure cloud environment based on the two security agreements entered into.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["200","1202","220","602","220","1204","1206","220"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["200","1302","220"]},"In one or more embodiments, operation  may involve transmitting, to a customer (e.g., client ) of the security service, security information about a storage controller associated therewith (e.g., client ) in accordance with a security level of access provided thereto through the cloud manager. In one or more embodiments, operation  may then involve generating, through the cloud manager, an invoice associated with the security service to the customer on a basis of an amount of security information requested thereby in accordance with the security level of access and the security information transmitted thereto.","Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. Also, for example, the various devices and modules described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry (e.g., CMOS based logic circuitry), firmware, software or any combination of hardware, firmware, and software (e.g., embodied in a machine readable medium). For example, the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors, logic gates, and electrical circuits (e.g., application specific integrated (ASIC) circuitry and\/or in Digital Signal Processor (DSP) circuitry).","In addition, it will be appreciated that the various operations, processes, and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine-readable medium and\/or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system (e.g., a computer devices), and may be performed in any order (e.g., including using means for achieving the various operations). Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The embodiments of this invention are illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like references indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
