---
title: Impersonation authorizations
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for granting permission to another user on a computer network to impersonate himself or herself on the network for duration of a specified period. One embodiment of such a method describes receiving instructions from a second user to grant impersonation permission to a first user to have access to user data of the second user; establishing an access policy authorizing access to the user data of the second user; and assigning the access policy to the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955149&OS=08955149&RS=08955149
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08955149
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["In computer technical and customer support, it is often useful to reproduce a problem that is being experienced by a user in order to troubleshoot or resolve the problem. For example, a technical support representative may recreate the problem on the support representative's own computer by logging into the user account of the user experiencing the problem using the user's own credentials (e.g., username and\/or password).","Techniques are described that facilitate a user granting permission to another user to impersonate the user while interacting with a network-based resource for a specified period. For example, in the context of a network-based resource such as an e-commerce web server or a computing service, in order for a customer service or technical support representative to identify a problem the user is experiencing, it is desirable for the network-based resource to function in the same manner regardless of whether the user or the technical support representative is interacting with it. Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure allow for the user to grant a permission allowing the support representative to impersonate the user for a specified period while interacting with the network-based resource to attempt to recreate the problem for his or her own viewing.","In the following discussion, a general description of a permission grant system and its components is provided, followed by a discussion of the operation of the same. With reference to , shown are a service provider environment , one or more clients , and a network  within a data communications network environment. The network  includes, for example, the Internet, intranets, extranets, wide area networks (WANs), local area networks (LANs), wired networks, wireless networks, or other suitable networks, etc., or any combination of two or more such networks.","The service provider environment  may further include computer systems configured to effectuate network-based resources such as an e-commerce web server , a computing service , a storage service , a virtual network service , etc. All of these services may be effectuated by one or more computer systems similar to the computer device shown by . The network-based resources can connect to an internal network that in turn connects to network . In one embodiment, the virtual network service  can be effectuated by a plurality of computer systems that are configured to generate and control one or more virtual networks for one or more customers by overlaying each virtual network upon a distinct substrate network.","In an example embodiment, the service provider can operate a virtual network on behalf of a customer. For example, in response to application program interface calls from a customer, the virtual network service  can attach one or more computing resources (e.g., one or more virtual machines or physical computer systems) to a customer's virtual network and assign each computing resources IP (Internet Protocol) addresses in the range used by the customer's private internal network. In this way, users within the customer's internal network can access resources within the virtual network as if the resources were local to the customer.","To set up a virtual network, a site-to-site virtual private network (VPN) connection can be used to connect the customer's environment to an edge server operated by the service provider (not illustrated). The customer can instantiate one or more virtual machines (that in turn run the customer's programs) and assign them IP addresses on the virtual network via one or more application program interface calls. When a packet addressed to a customer's virtual machine is received over the VPN, the edge server uses routing information to route the packet to a host computer running the virtual machine. The host computer changes the headers of the packet to make it appear as if it came from an IP address of the customer's internal network and sends it to the virtual machine. The virtual network can be considered to be \u201coverlaid\u201d on a substrate network because the virtual machines within the virtual network use IP addresses in a different subnet than the IP addresses used within the service provider's subnet.","In , the service provider environment  may comprise, for example, a plurality of server computers or any other computing devices or systems providing computing capability. As such, the service provider environment  may include multiple computer systems arranged, for example, in one or more server banks or other arrangements. Such computer systems may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. In one embodiment, the service provider environment  can include computer systems configured to effectuate an e-commerce web server . Further, in one embodiment, the service provider environment  includes one or more computer systems configured to effectuate a user identification and authentication service , which can be used to authenticate a user that attempts to log into network-based resources provided by the service provider to access information from his or her account or to access applications or data that is attached to or associated with the authenticated user. Other uses of the computer systems operated by the service provider environment  are also possible, including multitenant cloud computing. Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure allow for a first user of a network accessible computing service or environment to be impersonated by another user acting on behalf of the first user.","Various applications and\/or other functionality may be executed by computer systems operating within the service provider environment  according to various embodiments. Also, various data is stored in data store(s) ,  and is accessible to computer systems within the service provider environment . The data stored in the data store(s), for example, is associated with the operation of the various applications and\/or functional entities described below.","In a specific example, the service provider environment  and data store(s) ,  may span one or more data centers. In one embodiment, the computer systems spanning the one or more data centers together can effectuate an online marketplace that allows users to sell and buy goods, services, or products.","The data store(s) ,  maintain, for example, user data, network accessible content, policies and permissions, and potentially other data. The user data is data associated with a user and also includes profile data. In this context, a user refers to a party that uses the functionality of a computing service  and may include users that sell or offer items for sale to prospective buyers and\/or a party that buys an item offered for sale within the marketplace, whether a retail product or a service, such as a network hosting service. However, the user may or may not have ownership or control of the service provider environment . In other contexts, a user may have a different connotation such as referring to a user of a network service, a user of a particular computer application, etc.","The profile data  includes a variety of information regarding the identity of the user, such as a user name, contact information, bank account information, and\/or other data relevant to the identity of the user. When the user is a company, the profile data  may include a company name, a state of incorporation, a name of a company representative, and\/or other data relevant to the identity of the company. The contact information may include a mailing address, an email address, a telephone number, a fax number, or other contact information. Also, the bank account information may include a bank name, a routing number, and an account number in order to facilitate payment and deposit transactions.","The data store(s)  may further store network accessible content associated with various aspects of providing information to and gathering data from a user of the functionality of the e-commerce web server  and therefore may be referred as an e-commerce web server data store. Also, the data store(s) , such as an authentication data store, may store user policies. For example, when a permission is needed to be added to a user or group of users, a policy may be defined (in the access policy language) that contains the permission and then associated with the user or group. In addition, data store(s)  store logs or audit reports generated when individuals interface with the cloud or virtual services, in one embodiment. For example, the logs identify when a virtual machine is started or stopped; when a customer's data store is accessed; when changes to an account are made; when a computing resource is added to a virtual network; when routing information for a virtual network is updated; etc.","The computer systems operating within the service provider environment  can, for example, effectuate an e-commerce web server , as well as other applications, services, processes, engines, or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The e-commerce web server  facilitates the online selling and purchasing of items over the network . The e-commerce web server  also interacts with computer systems effectuating backend functions associated with the online presence of a user in order to facilitate the hosting of or providing of network content for the user. Additionally, in one embodiment, the e-commerce web server  generates or encodes for display item detail pages, such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided to clients  for the purposes of selecting items for purchase, rental, download, lease, or other forms of consumption.","The service provider environment  may further include a trouble ticket service or system . In one embodiment, the trouble ticket service  maintains list of issues encountered in the service provider environment  for one or more components. According to various embodiments, the trouble ticket service  may be provided by the service provider or by a third-party consulting entity that is not the hosting provider, such as third-party support entity . The trouble ticket service ,  can create, update, and resolve reported customer or end-user issues. In this process, the trouble ticket service ,  can issue a trouble ticket which is a data record which contains information about support interventions made by technical support staff or third parties on behalf of an end-user who has reported an incident.","Each of the clients  is coupled to the network . Also, each of the clients  may comprise, for example, a processor-based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant, a cellular telephone, set-top box, music players, web pads, tablet computer systems, or other devices with like capability. To this end, each of the clients  may comprise a mobile device as can be appreciated. Each of the clients  may include, for example, various peripheral devices. In particular, the peripheral devices may include input devices such as, for example, a keyboard, keypad, touch pad, touch screen, microphone, scanner, mouse, joystick, or one or more push buttons, etc. The peripheral devices may also include display devices , , indicator lights, speakers, etc. Specific display devices , may be, for example, cathode ray tubes (CRTs), liquid crystal display (LCD) screens, gas plasma-based flat panel displays, LCD projectors, or other types of display devices, etc.","Executed within the clients  are various applications including a browser . The client browser  is configured to interact with the web service application program interface  according to an appropriate protocol (e.g., TCP\/IP). The client browser  may be executed in the client  for example, to access and render network accessible content, such as web pages, or other network content served up by the servers utilized within the service provider environment . The client  may be configured to execute applications beyond the client browser , such as, for example, email applications, instant message applications, and\/or other applications, including dedicated client-side applications.","When executed in a client , the respective browser  renders a respective user interface on a respective display device  and may perform other functions. The client browser  accesses network accessible content such as web pages or other types of content from a service provider device, such as e-commerce web server , in order to access the functionality of the e-commerce web server  and other components implemented in the service provider environment  as will be described.","Users may not all have the same access rights within the service provider environment . Accordingly, particular access rights are attached to or assigned to particular users that define what services and resources a user is entitled to access. In order to ensure that user data is secure and only accessible to authorized individuals, user identification and authentication service  provides functionality for authenticating users as they attempt to access resources within the service provider environment , including computing service  and to data maintained or stored on data store(s) . In particular, user identification and authentication service  verifies credentials for users that are attempting access resources within the service provider environment , and allows or denies access accordingly to access rights attached to an authenticated user. Such credentials may include user logins, authentication requests signed by customer keys, passwords, biometric data, IP address verification, and the like, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, user identification and authentication service  defines access rights for users (e.g., impersonation rights, right to access another user's data, etc.). In response to a user request for access, user identification and authentication service  consults access control module  to determine what level of access is appropriate for the user making the request.","In order to authorize a user's request, permissions are granted by attaching a policy to the user or adding the user to a group that has the desired permission (e.g., a policy stating the underlying permission is associated with the group). A policy, e.g., a file, can formally state one or more permissions. To give a particular user a permission, a policy can be written according to an access policy language and attached to the user or group of users to which it applies. The act of attaching the policy to the user grants the user the permission stated in the policy. More than one policy can be attached to a particular user or group of users.","In an example embodiment, a policy may be added to a customer service support group allowing the group to impersonate a particular user such that a technical support representative within the group can be allowed or authorized to impersonate the particular user. Further, if the policy is removed or deleted from the group, then the technical support representative will no longer have necessary permission authorizing the representative to impersonate the particular user.","In one embodiment, a technical support representative may not be provided a new authentication credential (e.g., username, token, password, etc.) in order to impersonate the user. Instead, the technical support representative may utilize his or her standard credentials (e.g., username, token, password, etc.) to log into a service or website (e.g., a website provided by the e-commerce web server ) to provide technical support. Since the technical support representative has been granted a new permission by the user (as evinced by the corresponding policy attached to the user), the technical support representative is allowed to impersonate the user in accordance with the policy. In an embodiment, the policy may specify that the technical support representative is allowed to impersonate the user for a specified duration and\/or until a predetermined condition is satisfied. In one embodiment, the specified duration is designated by the user when the permission is granted or thereafter. In the same or an alternative embodiment, the predetermined condition is tied to an event, such as closing of a trouble ticket for a task being handled by the technical support representative.","Accordingly, in some embodiments, a granted permission may be automatically revoked or withdrawn upon occurrence of a stated or defined condition. Possible stated conditions may include, but are not limited to including one or more of surpassing a maximum amount of impersonation uses, expiration of a time limit in which to use the access policy authorizing impersonation, a resolution of an outstanding issue that a user requested a technical support representative to address, completion of a repair of a network outage problem, surpassing a maximum number of access failures by the technical support representative or entity, or occurrence of a technical support representative being off-duty in accordance with the representative's work schedule.","Further, in various embodiments, impersonation rights may be limited in scope. For example, the technical support representative may be granted an impersonation right with respect to certain operations and not granted with respect to other operations. In one embodiment, the technical support representative may be granted read permission to the user's data but not granted write permission. A user, such as a customer, may also choose whether to grant the technical support representative full or limited impersonation rights, in one embodiment. Also, impersonation rights may be granted to an intermediate entity, such as a customer support management member or principal, that can delegate the granted impersonation right to an individual technical support representative or a plurality or team of representatives. In this scenario, the intermediate entity may be able to choose whether to further limit the scope of the rights granted by the customer when granting rights to an individual technical support representative. Also, in one embodiment, the trouble ticket computer service or system  may act as the intermediate entity and be configured to select a technical support representative that is currently scheduled to be available to handle a service call\/request and delegate the granted impersonation right(s) to the selected representative. By allowing for this type of delegation, the user does not have to reconfigure permission grants every time a support representative needs to be reassigned (e.g., a representative goes off-clock and another representative goes on-clock).","In one embodiment, each user will probably have multiple policies that apply to them. For example, Tina could have policies attached directly to her, and other policies attached to the groups she is a member. The access control module  evaluates all of the relevant policies at request time to determine whether Tina can perform a certain action, under what conditions, and on what resources. In the case of impersonation, one of the policies attached to Tina may be a permission to impersonate another user, Sophia. In one embodiment, Tina may therefore request to access configuration information for a virtual network associated with Sophia's account, a computing resource attached to the virtual network, an application or data associated with Sophia's account, perform a particular operation, etc. on behalf of Sophia. The access control module  may then verify (after Tina has been authenticated) whether Tina has the appropriate access policy authorizing her to operate the application or data on behalf of Sophia (i.e., impersonation). Also, after a positive verification, the client device of Tina may request actions to be performed on behalf of Sophia. In such an embodiment, instead of providing a request and a cookie identifying the user as Tina (via her username), the accompanying cookie may identify the user as Tina acting on behalf of Sophia (via their respective usernames). As a result, an audit log  documenting requested actions may also identify that the corresponding action was requested by Tina acting on behalf of Sophia (or something similar, such as Tina impersonating Sophia, etc.).","The present disclosure provides a scheme for granting permission to a user, such as a customer service or technical support representative, allowing the user to impersonate another user. Accordingly, the technical support representative utilizes a support representative's computer , , such as a personal computer running an operating system and one or more software applications. In one embodiment, computer ,  includes the same client components as client computer , for accessing computing resources offered by computer systems running in the service provider environment . In another embodiment, computer ,  includes a superset of the client components, or an enhanced version of such components, so as to enable the support representative to perform diagnostic and troubleshooting functions with respect to a networked-based resource. By running client components that are identical to or related to those components being run at client  allows a support representative to duplicate the user's experience and application interaction and thereby more easily identify and diagnose problems.","Support representative's computer ,  interacts with user identification and authentication service  and other computing services  via network , in a manner similar to analogous interactions for client . To the extent possible within the framework of a technical support environment, support representative's computer's ,  interactions with server components are designed to be substantially identical to those of user's client computer , so that the support representative can better diagnose problems. However, in some embodiments, additional functionality is provided for use by support representative on support representative's computer ,  that may not be available on user's or customer's client .","In one embodiment, support representative's computer  may be connected to user identification and authentication service  and computing service  via a network other than network . In particular, client support representative's computer  may be connected via a secure network to which client  does not have access, such as an internal corporate network. Such an arrangement may enhance security, and may ensure that some functions (such as the ability to sign on as another user) are only accessible to support representative's computer  connected to the secure network.","In one embodiment, user identification and authentication service  controls support representative's access and communicates with network-based resources operated by the service provider, such as the e-commerce web server , in such a manner that, the support representative is authorized to submit requests on behalf of the user to the network-based resource. The network-based resource, however, can keep track of the interactions that were performed by the actual user and those performed by the support representative acting on behalf of the actual user in an audit log . In one embodiment, the actual user may be provided access to the audit log  so that the user can see what actions were performed while the user was being impersonated. For example, a service operated by the service provider could gather logs and expose them via an application program interface call over a network.","As an example, a customer at a client computing device  may be experiencing a problem with her virtual shopping cart generated by an e-commerce web server . In this example, suppose that the customer believes that a current promotion offering free shipping for items totaling over $25 is not being recognized by the service and calls a customer service support representative for assistance. In addition, suppose that the representative is not able to reproduce the same error using the representative's software tools. Accordingly, the representative asks the customer, if he may impersonate the customer to see exactly what the customer is seeing and help resolve the problem. Therefore, before being able to impersonate the customer, the customer must grant the representative permission to impersonate the customer. After the permission is granted, the representative is then allowed to impersonate the customer (subject to the same access policy rights and restrictions as that customer) to reproduce the condition being described or to see what is currently being displayed on a current page being accessed, such as the customer's pending cart, as it presently stands. For instance, the representative could receive a browser cookie or the like that includes information that allows the representative to impersonate the customer, e.g., a cookie that includes a session identifier for the customer. The representative could submit the cookie to the service and the browser  could receive a web page that is the same or similar to the one the customer is viewing. In this example, the representative could view the customer's cart and determine that the promotion is being applied but that the customer is overlooking it. Alternatively, the representative may determine that some items in the customer's cart are not available to be used with the promotion and that is the reason why the promotion is not being applied.","Referring now to , shown is an event diagram depicting an embodiment of a method of the present disclosure according to one embodiment. The method shown assumes that a user is running a browser  or other client () via his or her client computer  over network  (), to access and interact with user data and network-based resource. The user has authenticated himself or herself via entry of a login identifier and password to user identification and authentication service . The user encounters some problem in attempting to perform a function on network-based resource, and contacts  a customer support center  for help. Correspondingly, in one embodiment, a support representative answers the call and greets the user. As such, the support representative may be also running a browser  or other client application via his or her support representative's computer's ,  over the network .","Different communication techniques are within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, the communication between the user and the support representative can take place via any communication medium, including telephone, email, instant messaging, pager, web page(s), interactive web session, text messaging, Internet communications, and the like. In the course of describing the problem to the support representative, the support representative may wish to see what is going on, in particular with the user's own data and requests  for permission to access the user data. In order to allow the support representative to duplicate the problem on the support representative's computer , , the user grants  permission to the support representative to impersonate the user for a defined period, whereby authorization is provided to the access control module  to add a policy indicating that the support representative is allowed to access the user data. The user may grant permission to an intermediate entity that can delegate the permission to another user or to a group of users. As discussed below, the user may be redirected from a customer support center website to a website of a provider of the network-based resource (e.g., e-commerce web server ) in order to grant the permission.","Also, in one embodiment, the technical support representative may be affiliated with a host provider of the network  and\/or network-based resource. Alternatively, the technical support representative may be affiliated with a third-party consulting entity  that is not the host provider. In one such embodiment, the user grants permission to the third-party support representative to impersonate the user, as described above, where the host provider is informed by the user of the permission grant and a policy may be associated with the representative to allow him or her to access the user's data on behalf of the user. Therefore, when the third-party support representative attempts to impersonate the user while interacting with a storage service , a computer service , or a virtual network service , the representative will be allowed to impersonate the user.","In this particular scenario, a trouble-ticket may be opened for the user at a third-party trouble-ticket system of the customer support center , where the process of opening the ticket may cause a web browser of the user to be redirected to the service provider environment , where the user is prompted to grant the third-party trouble ticket service  or its representative permission to impersonate the user. After the permission is selected to be granted, then the user may be redirected back to the third-party trouble ticket system . Alternatively, the user may visit the service provider environment  to grant the permission before opening the trouble-ticket at the third-party trouble ticket service .","An exemplary operational flow in the instance where support is performed by a third party is as follows. For one embodiment, a user calls support or opens a trouble ticket (e.g., by pressing a button on an applicable web page). The request to open a trouble ticket is routed to the ticketing service  and it opens a ticket. A trouble ticket representative is assigned by the ticketing service  and the representative logs into the ticketing service  to help the user. At some point during the conversation, the trouble ticket representative determines to impersonate the user and submits a request to the ticketing service .","In one embodiment, the ticketing service  calls a third-party support application programming interface (API)  to authenticate the user. Access control module  determines whether impersonation of the user is allowed based on policy. This may also involve a call out to the user to authorize. Assuming impersonation is enabled, the access control module  generates a session browser token that allows the representative to go to access the e-commerce web server content and see what the user is seeing. This cookie may have a short expiration date. For example, when the e-commerce web server  gets the HTTP request a copy of the cookie is provided that attests that the trouble ticket representative is impersonating the user.","In the following illustrative example, suppose that a computing resource service customer has a problem. Also suppose that this customer has enabled an access policy with the service provider environment  that indicates that a third-party trouble ticket service  can support the user and the third-party trouble ticket service  has created a support account with the service provider environment .","In this example, the user goes to the website of the trouble ticket support entity  and opens a trouble ticket. The trouble ticket support entity  creates a ticket number and provides it to the user. Optionally the user could be redirected back to the service provider environment  to give the service provider the ticket number and to authorize the trouble ticket support entity  to help with the problem.","The ticketing service  assigns the ticket to a representative. The representative logs into the ticketing service  to help solve the problem. The ticketing service  sends a call to impersonate the user to the service provider environment  along with an identifier (e.g., ID) of the trouble ticket representative that will do the work. In the instance that the user was not redirected to the service provider environment  to give it the trouble ticket number, the service provider environment  could push a prompt to the user to ask them to authorize the impersonation request. An optional configuration involves the ticketing service  querying the access control module  to scope the trouble ticket representative's rights. For example, the ticketing service  may request that the impersonation only last for the next 4 hours (e.g., the length of time left in the trouble ticket representative's shift). Assuming that the impersonation request succeeds, the service provider environment  issues a credential to the trouble ticket representative and the representative uses the credential to access the customer's computing resource.","In an embodiment where the trouble ticket service  is part of the service provider environment , the operation flow may be substantially the same as that described above. One difference may be that the internal trouble ticket representatives could log directly into the user identification and authentication service  instead of going through the ticketing service .","Possible use cases of the access control module  are when the trouble ticket representative helps the user solve a problem related to a configuring a virtual network, a virtual machine on the virtual network, a storage service, etc. In the instance where the user needs help with a website, the trouble ticket representative would be provided a web browser cookie that includes state that allows the trouble ticket representative to go to the website and be logged in as if the representative was the user. Alternatively, the trouble ticket representative may be provided a credential that allows the trouble ticket representative to log into the website as impersonating the user. Therefore, referring back to , after being granted permission, the technical support representative may log in  as himself or herself, be authenticated, and request to impersonate the customer.","In the third-party support case for one embodiment, the representative logs into his or her ticketing service , not the user identification and authentication service . The ticketing service  sends a request to the user identification and authentication service  to request entry. The access control module  checks to see if it should grant the ticketing service's request by looking at a policy associated with the user and by determining if the user has authorized the support. Optionally, if the user has not granted the support yet, a signal may be sent to the user or customer to authorize the support. Then, access control module  uses the policy to determine how to scope the rights of the trouble ticket representative.","As discussed previously, the access control module  can also use information from the ticketing service to scope the rights of the trouble ticket representative even further. For example, the ticketing service may tell the access control module  that the representative is only working for the next two hours and ask that representative only be allowed to impersonate for the next two hours.","In , before granting the request, the user identification and authentication service  verifies  that the requesting representative is permitted to impersonate the customer. Accordingly, a policy attached to the representative or attached to a group in which the representative is a member may be present that specifies that the representative is allowed to impersonate the customer. The particular policy may specify the customer to whom it applies and may also specify a duration for the policy. Thus, a linkage exists between the customer that is subject to the policy, the user(s) to whom the policy is attached or associated, and a term or duration of the policy which could be linked to a triggering event. For example, a permission may be granted as long as a trouble ticket is outstanding. Accordingly, when the trouble ticket is closed then the term of the permission may be terminated.","Once the customer has granted permission, access control module  is updated to attach a policy to the representative indicating that the support representative has permission to impersonate the customer. The policy may also express the parameters and limitations of the access rights. In some embodiments, the support representative logs in  to user identification and authentication service . Also, the service  may generate a credential that the trouble ticket representative can use to temporary log into the user's account.","The user identification and authentication service  authenticates the support representative's login credentials and verifies  whether the authenticated representative has permission to impersonate the identified user and access  the user data. If the customer does not explicitly grant to the representative the necessary permission to allow for impersonation of the customer, then the representative will be denied  the impersonation request. Modifications, such as a rearrangement and\/or omission of operations, of the described method are within the scope of the present disclosure.","To grant impersonation permissions, in one embodiment, the user identification and authentication service  may have a management software tool for granting a permission to a technical support group or representative. For example, the tool may provide a graphical interface checkbox that can be selected by a user to opt-in to granting the permission or the user could be prompted to choose to grant a permission after submitting a technical support request or ticket with it being stated that the permission lasts as long as technical support is being provided to address the issue related to the original request or support ticket. In one embodiment, a third-party support group or entity  not directly associated or affiliated with the network-based resource may be enlisted by the user to provide technical support and thereby be granted a permission by the user to access the user data and be provided the necessary access rights to allow the third-party to utilize the network-based resource in a manner consistent with the user's access rights and restrictions. Accordingly, if the user has not pre-authorized a grant of permission to access the user data, a request by a support representative will be denied. Further, the permission term may be set or scheduled to automatically expire after a specified period or after a designated event has occurred. Therefore, at some point, the grant of permission expires. In various embodiments, expiry can take place when any of the following events occur: after a predetermined time period has elapsed, or some other time period that is preset or selectable by the user; upon explicit command by the user to terminate the grant; or upon any combination of the above.","Expiry of the grant ensures that, once the troubleshooting task has been completed, user data remains secure. In addition, the use of the grant of permission as described above allows the support representative to access user data for diagnostic purposes, without requiring the user to provide his or her personal login credentials to the representative and thereby compromise the security of user data. The particular mechanism used to grant a permission may depend on the particulars of the network-based resource and\/or access control module . In general, the grant will be a user or customer mediated grant, and the application or network provider can choose what mechanisms to use to accept that granted permission. The provider uses that permission as a measure of control on the ability of the entity that receives the grant (\u201cgrantee\u201d) to access the user data.","For one embodiment,  depicts a table  that specifies access rights associated with entities that have been granted permission rights. The figure is representative of one example of a possible embodiment used to effectuate authentication and authorization services. As a non-limiting example, a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) server accessible over the Internet may be used.","In particular, each data row -in the table indicates a named grantee (e.g., an entity that has been granted a right to impersonate or access the user data of another user) in column that is authorized to initiate an impersonation action to an entity (\u201cgrantor\u201d) named in column . In addition, grantees may be identified in different manners in the present example, including by individual name or by group name. For example, row indicates that members of Group1 may initiate impersonation actions to an entity identified as User2. Therefore, the grant may apply to any member of the indicated group or of any sub-groups of the indicated group. Hence, User2 may grant Group1 the permission or right to impersonate User2 and management for Group1 may then select which member is tasked to provide support to User2.","Row shows that a grantee identified as User1 may initiate impersonation actions involving the entity identified as User3. Further, in accordance with various scenarios that have been described for illustrative purposes, row shows a third-party support entity  (\u201cBob's Tech Support\u201d) being granted permission to impersonate User4. Also, in rows and , User4 has also granted impersonation permission to an internal support service (\u201cSP Tech Support\u201d) and to an administrator (\u201cAdmin\u201d) of the service provider environment . Row indicates that additional grantees and grantors may be identified, as needs arise.","Column indicates that additional information may be specified with respect to access policies (e.g., policy expiration criteria, contact information for the user that created or otherwise manages the policy, business justification, subsets of user data or applications that are allowed to be accessed under the grant, etc.). For example, support and\/or business justification reasons may be documented. Further, in some embodiments, instead of specifying usernames, source network addresses for entities may be used.","As stated above, the particular mechanism used to grant a permission may depend on the particulars of the network-based resource and\/or access control module  (). In one exemplary representation, as depicted in , a web communication may provide a dialog box or popup  that prompts a user to authorize or deny a request to grant permission by selecting the appropriate response from a dropdown menu  and selecting a submit button . Alternatively, in , a user may select a CLICK TO CALL option  on a web page requesting for technical support and then be provided a dialog box  prompting the user to authorize or deny a request to grant permission by selecting the appropriate response from a choice of radio buttons  and selecting a submit button . Similarly, during voice communications, a user may also be prompted to grant a permission. For example, in , a conversation may take place via telephone  between a support representative and a user, where the support representative requests for permission to impersonate the user (as indicated by pointer ) and triggers activation of an automated interactive voice response system (e.g., via opening of a trouble ticket) that asks for the user to authorize or deny the grant of permission to the support representative (as indicated by pointer ). In some embodiments, the automated interactive voice response system may be triggered from a web communication and may call out to a listed number for an account of the user to attempt to receive the desired authorization. In each of these examples, input from the user is needed before impersonation can be authorized to be carried out by the support representative.","In another illustrative example, a request can be received on a smartphone device , tablet, etc., as depicted in . For example, a mobile phone application may display a prompt screen  to the user requesting the user to authorize the permission grant. In some embodiments, the user may input a unique pin or code to indicate his or her authorization for the requested permission grant, as depicted in . Further, in some embodiments, the user may receive an email message  from the support representative or the access control module  () requesting the user to designate whether the user authorizes a permission grant (e.g., via selection of an appropriate hypertext link ), as shown in .","In many of the foregoing examples, the duration of the permission grant is stated to be tied to a trouble ticket for a support case. However, duration of the permission grant may also be specifically defined. As an example, in , a prompt screen  (which could possibly follow prompt screen  in ) requests the user to specify a duration for the permission grant, where the user may input the number of days that the grant is to exist before expiring (as indicated by pointer ). Additional prompts may also be presented to a user in various embodiment. For instance, a user may be presented with options to limit the scope of impersonation rights to be granted. Therefore, the user, such as customer, may choose whether to grant a technical support representative full or limited impersonation rights, in one embodiment. Also, impersonation rights may be granted to an intermediate entity or principal, such as a customer support management member that can delegate or a programmed computing device configured to delegate the granted impersonation right to an individual technical support representative. In this scenario, the intermediate entity or principal may be able to choose whether to limit the scope of the rights granted by the customer. As an example, if a customer is having an issue with a particular remote computing service or web service, such as an email service, in a cloud computing environment or platform, the technical support representative tasked to provide technical support may not be granted access to all of the user's data and all of the web services to which the user is provided access. Rather, the representative may be granted impersonation rights with respect to email-related data.","Accordingly, a web services request accompanied with a signed credential of the representative declaring that the representative is acting on behalf of the user may be granted (after verifying that the representative is authorized to act on behalf of the user with respect to email services) and a calendar request accompanied with a signed credential declaring that the representative is acting on behalf of the user may be denied (after failing to verify that the representative is authorized to act on behalf of the user with respect to calendar services).","In order to track such grants of permissions, embodiments may also provide a user interface allowing a user to view what permission grants are outstanding by the user (\u201cMy Permission Grants\u201d), as shown in . For example, some embodiments may provide an interactive console (e.g. a client application program providing an interactive user interface, a web browser-based interface, etc.) from which users can manage access policies or group membership. In addition, some embodiments may provide an API (application programming interface) that allows other computing systems and programs to programmatically invoke such functionality. Such APIs may be provided by libraries or class interfaces (e.g., to be invoked by programs written in C, C++, or Java) and\/or network service protocols such as via web services.","In , a web page  is shown listing three permission grants for the user. Under each of the three permission grants, information on the term of the permission grant is stated and an option is provided to modify the term or to terminate the term (and thereby remove the permission grant from the party to which it was granted). For example, for the first permission grant listed, the permission grant is to \u201cRetail Support\u201d group and is set to expire on June 3rd. To modify or terminate the term of the permission grant, an option  is provided that can be selected. After selection of the option , the user may be provided an additional web page , as shown in . Here, the user can specify whether the term should be terminated, as indicated by option , or whether the term should be changed, as indicated by option . For option , the user can input an end-date for the term (at which the grant of permission should expire).","Referring next to , shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the access control module  () according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the access control module  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device  () according to one or more embodiments.","In box , the access control module  of service provider environment  receives an electronic request from a first user to impersonate a second user. In one exemplary scenario, the first user may be a customer support representative that is attempting to resolve a technical issue being experienced by the second user, where the problems being encountered by the second user may be more readily observed by the customer support representative if the representative is allowed to impersonate the second user. According to various embodiments, the first user may be affiliated with a host to the virtual network or be affiliated with a third-party consulting entity (e.g., trouble ticketing support entity ) that is not the hosting provider. Therefore, in box , the access control module  generates a request to the second user to grant permission that will allow the first user to impersonate the second user and have access to user data of the second user.","In box , in response to receiving an indication that the permission is granted by the second user, the access control module  enables an access policy configured to allow the first user to access the user data of the second user, wherein the policy has a specified duration after which the policy will be withdrawn from being associated with the first user. Accordingly, in box , while the policy is currently associated with the first user, the access control module grants the first user access to the user data of the second user commensurate with access policy restrictions to which the second user is subjected. In a non-limiting example, credentials of the second user (e.g., username, password, etc.) are used to check whether access policies authorize the first user to act on behalf of the second user and authorize the first user (in an impersonation of the second user) access the user data of the second user.","Referring next to , shown is a flowchart that provides another example of the operation of a portion of the access control module  () according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the access control module  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the service provider environment  () according to one or more embodiments.","In box , the user identification and authentication module  () of service provider environment  authenticates a first user. For example, the first user may provide credentials (e.g., unique username and password combination) that match stored credentials maintained by the user identification and authentication module . The access control module  of service provider environment  then receives an electronic request from the first user to access user data of a second user, in box . The request may be forwarded to the access control module  from another receiving node so that the access control module  can evaluate the request and determine whether the request should be granted. In box , in response to receiving the electronic request, the access control module  verifies whether the first user has been associated with an access policy that authorizes or allows the first user to access the user data of the second user. In one embodiment, such an access policy may have a specified duration after which the policy will be withdrawn from being associated with the first user.","Next, in box , in response to verifying that the first user has been associated with a policy allowing the first user to access the user data of the second user, the access control module  authorizes or allows the first user (e.g., grants the request) to access the user data of the second user commensurate with access policy restrictions to which the second user is subjected. For example, if the second user is not authorized to perform a particular action, then the first user, while impersonating the second user, will also not be authorized to perform the particular action.","Referring next to , shown is a flowchart that provides another example of the operation of a portion of the access control module  () according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the access control module  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the service provider environment  () according to one or more embodiments.","In box , the access control module  of service provider environment  receives instructions from a second user to grant permission to a first user to have access to user data of the second user. In other words, the second user is granting impersonation permission to the first user. Therefore, in box , the access control module  establishes an access policy authorizing access to the user data of the second user and assigns the policy to the first user, such that a request from the first user to access the second user's data will be checked against each assigned policy of the first user. Correspondingly, in box , the access control module  provides a graphical display of impersonation permissions (and associated policies) granted by a user, such as the second user, with policy details including dates or descriptions of termination for each respective permission\/policy. In box , the access control module  may further provide mechanisms for modifying terms or termination dates of granted policies, including an option to terminate upon command. For example, the second user may decide to withdraw the first user's right to impersonate the second user and may be provided a graphical user interface \u201cTerminate\u201d button that upon selection will proceed to withdraw the policy allowing the first user to impersonate the second user. In one embodiment, a computing device of the service provider environment  encodes for display on a display device the various graphical interfaces described above.","With reference to , shown is a schematic block diagram of a computing device of the service provider environment  according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device of the service provider environment  includes at least one processor circuit, for example, having a processor  and a memory , both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end, the service provider environment  may comprise, for example, at least one server computer or like device. The local interface  may comprise, for example, a data bus with an accompanying address\/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.","Stored in the memory  are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular, stored in the memory  and executable by the processor  are the access control module , and potentially other applications, such as user identification and authentication service . Also stored in the memory  may be data store(s)  and other data. In addition, an operating system  may be stored in the memory  and executable by the processor  and network interface application(s)  may be used to communicate using network protocols.","It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processors  as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software, any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as, for example, C, C++, C#, Objective C, Java, Java Script, Perl, PHP, Visual Basic, Python, Ruby, Delphi, Flash, or other programming languages.","A number of software components are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processor . In this respect, the term \u201cexecutable\u201d means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be, for example, a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and run by the processor , source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and executed by the processor , or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory  to be executed by the processor , etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory  including, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard drive, solid-state drive, USB (Universal Serial Bus) flash drive, memory card, optical disc such as compact disc (CD) or digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, magnetic tape, or other memory components.","The memory  is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus, the memory  may comprise, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard disk drives, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, memory cards accessed via a memory card reader, floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive, optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive, magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive, and\/or other memory components, or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition, the RAM may comprise, for example, static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM) and other such devices. The ROM may comprise, for example, a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other like memory device.","Also, the processor  may represent multiple processors  and the memory  may represent multiple memories  that operate in parallel processing circuits, respectively. In such a case, the local interface  may be an appropriate network  () that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors , between any processor  and any of the memories , or between any two of the memories , etc. The local interface  may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication, including, for example, performing load balancing. The processor  may be of electrical or of some other available construction.","Although the network-based resource and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above, as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software\/general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware, each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include, but are not limited to, discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals, application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates, or other components, etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and, consequently, are not described in detail herein.","The flowcharts of  show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the access control module . If embodied in software, each block may represent a module, segment, or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function(s). The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human-readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor  in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code, etc. If embodied in hardware, each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function(s).","Although the  show a specific order of execution, it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example, the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also, two or more boxes shown in succession in  show may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. In addition, any number of counters, state variables, warning semaphores, or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein, for purposes of enhanced utility, accounting, performance measurement, or providing troubleshooting aids, etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.","Also, any logic or application described herein, including the network-based resource, that comprises software or code can be embodied in any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as, for example, a processor  in a computer system or other system. In this sense, the logic may comprise, for example, statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer-readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any medium that can contain, store, or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer-readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as, for example, electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer-readable medium would include, but are not limited to, magnetic tapes, magnetic floppy diskettes, magnetic hard drives, memory cards, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, or optical discs. Also, the computer-readable medium may be a random access memory (RAM) including, for example, static random access memory (SRAM) and dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM). In addition, the computer-readable medium may be a read-only memory (ROM), a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other type of memory device."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-5","FIG. 1"],"b":["7","9","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 8","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIGS. 13-15","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
