---
title: Information processing apparatus, method for controlling same, installation method, and storage medium
abstract: A PC  recognizes a connection of the multipurpose machine  to the network , and a first driver, which corresponds to information equipment provided by the recognized device, is installed on the PC . The PC  acquires a supplement installer that installs a second driver, which enables the functions of the device to be used, on the PC  from the IHV Web server  upon installation of the first driver on the PC . Then, the supplement installer determines whether or not the second driver needs to be installed on the PC . When the second driver needs to be installed on the PC , the second driver is installed on the PC 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081593&OS=09081593&RS=09081593
owner: CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09081593
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110308
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","CITATION LIST","Patent Literature","Non-Patent Literature","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present invention relates to an information processing apparatus, a method for controlling the same, an installation method, and a storage medium.","Conventionally, in order to allow information equipment to be usable in the operating system (hereinafter referred to as \u201cOS\u201d) of a personal computer (hereinafter referred to as \u201cPC\u201d), a driver for the use of the information equipment on the OS must be installed on the OS. An example of a method for installing the driver includes Plug and Play Extensions (hereinafter referred to as \u201cPnPX\u201d) (see Non-Patent Documents 1 and 2). The PnPX is a standard function that is preinstalled in the Windows (registered trademark) Vista OS and is a technology in which the OS acquires and installs a driver for the information equipment present on the network in a unique manner upon reception of a user's command. Also, in the PnPX, a scheme in which the OS finds the information equipment on the network, which is called \u201cWeb Services on Devices\u201d (hereinafter referred to as \u201cWSD\u201d), is employed (see Non-Patent Document 3). Furthermore, examples of a method for causing the OS to acquire a driver when performing the PnPX include a method for acquiring a driver by searching the hard disk on the PC, a method for acquiring a driver from a Web server dedicated for the OS arranged on the internet, and the like. Note that some information equipment may have an appearance of a single information equipment but may be internally configured by a plurality of information equipment. For example, in spite of having an appearance of a single information equipment, such information equipment may internally incorporate a plurality of information equipment such as a printer, a scanner, a FAX, and the like. Such information equipment may be referred to as a \u201cMulti Function Printer\u201d or a \u201cmultipurpose machine\u201d.","When the PnPX occurs on the aforementioned multipurpose machine, a driver is required for each of a plurality of information equipment that is present internally. For example, in the case of a multipurpose machine in which a printer and a scanner are preinstalled, the two types of drivers, i.e., the driver for the printer and the driver for the scanner, are installed by the PnPX. Here, when taking developers and a driver distribution method mainly into consideration, a driver can be classified into three types as follows. A first type is an OS standard driver developed by an OS development company such that the minimum function of information equipment can be employed. This OS standard driver is available for many of the general information equipment such as a printer, a FAX, and the like. A second type is a full specification driver uniquely developed by information equipment development company (THY) such that all of the functions of information equipment can be employed on the OS. IHV is an abbreviation for Independent Hardware Vendor. In general, since only the minimum necessary functions for information equipment are preinstalled among the standard OS drivers, any unique functions packaged in information equipment by each IHV cannot be employed. Hence, it is desirable that a full specification driver be installed. However, in general, a user needs to search and obtain a full specification driver by himself, and thus considerable time and labor are required. Also, it may be difficult for a user to know how to acquire a full specification driver. Furthermore, in the case of a multipurpose machine, a plurality of drivers needs to be acquired depending on the number of the preinstalled information equipment, which may be difficult to be understood by a general user. A third type is an OS-provided driver provided from the IHV to the OS development company in order to solve the problem that the aforementioned user has difficulty in acquiring a full specification driver. The OS development company stores the provided OS-provided driver in a location where the OS can recognize, whereby the OS can install an IHV-made OS-provided driver upon execution of the PnPX.","A limitation is often placed on the OS-provided driver. A representative example of such limitation includes a capacity limitation. The OS-provided driver is often stored mainly on the hard disk of the PC or is often stored on the Web server dedicated for the OS arranged on the internet. However, if the IHV-made full specification drivers for all kinds of the information equipment are stored on the hard disk or the Web server dedicated for the OS, a very large amount of capacity is required, resulting in a great burden on the PC or the Web server. Hence, a limitation may be placed on the capacity of a driver. To satisfy the capacity limitation, some of the functions of the OS-provided driver may be deleted compared with those of the full specification driver. Thus, installation of the OS-provided driver may cause a problem in that a user cannot use all of the functions of the information equipment. In order to deal with the problem, a technique in which the OS downloads and installs a full specification driver by executing the PnPX module developed by the IHV has been proposed. For example, Patent Document 1 discloses a program that determines that either the performance information for a printer discovered by the WSD module or the performance information for a printer currently installed has a higher priority and installs a driver in accordance with the determination result.","PTL 1: Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 2008-27006","NPL 1: Microsoft Corporation, \u201cSearch technology: PnPX\u201d, [online], Windows Hardware Developer Center, Internet URL: (http:\/\/www.microsoft.com\/japan\/whdc\/connect\/rally\/rallyPnpx.mspx)","NPL 2: Microsoft Corporation, \u201cBuilding Develoyable Device Driver Package\u201d [online], Windows Hardware Developer Center, Internet URL: http:\/\/download.microsoft.com\/download\/a\/f\/d\/afdfd50d-6eb9-425e-84e1-b4085a80e3 4e\/DVR-T393_WH07.pptx>","NPL 3: Windows Rally Technology, Internet URL: http:\/\/www.microsoft.com\/japan\/windows\/marketplace\/rally\/rallyfeatures.aspx","As described above, it is difficult for a user to search and obtain a full specification driver for a device by himself. Also, in the technique disclosed in Patent Document 1, a user needs to obtain an IHV-made PnPX module separately instead of searching the full specification driver by himself. However, it is difficult for a user to recognize how and where the IHV-made PnPX module is obtained.","The information processing apparatus of the present invention installs a driver, which enables the function of a device to be used, upon execution of the PnPX for the device connected to a network.","According to an aspect of the present invention, an information processing apparatus is provided that includes a device recognition unit configured to recognize a connection of a device to a network via the network; and a first installation unit configured to install a first driver, which corresponds to information equipment provided by the device, on an information processing apparatus when a connection of the device to the network is recognized, wherein the first installation unit acquires a second installation unit configured to install a second driver, which enables the functions of the device to be used, on the information processing apparatus via the network upon installation of the first driver on the information processing apparatus, and wherein the second installation unit determines whether or not the second driver needs to be installed on the information processing apparatus, and when the second driver needs to be installed on the information processing apparatus, installs the second driver on the information processing apparatus via the network.","Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.","Hereinafter, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Note that the present embodiments are not intended to limit the present invention. Also, all of the combinations of the features described in the present embodiments are not necessarily the principal components of the present invention. Further, among the technologies relating to Windows (registered trademark) Vista OS cited below, the technology not specifically described is disclosed in http:\/\/msdn.microsoft.com\/ja-jp\/default.aspx.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 2-A","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","3","100","1","3","100","4","4","1","1","1","1","50","70","80","70","122","3","50","121","3","80","3","1","4"]},"The multipurpose machine  is the device of the present embodiment, and includes the printer  and the scanner  as the information equipment. The multipurpose machine  is, for example, a multipurpose machine having a model name C developed by XXX Corporation. The device of the present embodiment may include any information equipment (e.g., copying machine, facsimile, digital camera, and the like) other than the printer  and the scanner . The multipurpose machine  is configured by a hardware to be described below with reference to , and is bidirectionally communicably connected to the PC  via the network . The IHV Web server  is provided on a Web . The IHV Web server  is a Web server that is utilized or managed by information equipment development company WO. Instead of the IHV Web server , the system of the present embodiment may include any server that can provide a software requested by an information processing apparatus to the information processing apparatus such as the PC  or the like via the network . The hardware configuration of the PC  shown in  is the same as that of the PC  shown in . For the information equipment developed by IHV, the IHV Web server  includes a supplement installer , a printer driver , a scanner driver , an application , and a driver component .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIGS. 2-A","FIG. 2-A","FIG. 2-A"],"b":["2","1","1","1201","1202","1203","1208","1","1204","1205","1207","1204","1","1204","1201","1202","1","1203","1208","1207","1","3","1","1206"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 2-B","b":["3","3","15","16","17","18","19","20","21","22","15","3","15","17","18","19","20","21","22","16","16","3","1","70","1","16","22","3","1","50","1","16","122","121","3","17","1","19","17","22"]},"The communication unit  includes a connection port for the network . The communication unit  controls communication over Ethernet (registered trademark). The recording unit  includes a recording unit having an inkjet type recording head, color inks, a carriage, a recording paper transport mechanism, and the like, and an electrical circuit having an ASIC or the like for generating a printing pulse at a recording head based on print data. When a user of the PC  provides a print instruction using an application that can print, the display content (image data) of a file opened by the application is temporarily stored as an EMF-format spool file in the HDD  of the PC . The stored spool file is converted into print data including the control commands for the multipurpose machine  via the printer driver , and then is sent to the multipurpose machine  via the network . The communication unit  provided in the multipurpose machine  receives the print data, and the recording unit  converts the print data into printing pulses to thereby print it on a recording paper. The operating unit  includes various buttons such as a power button, a reset button, and the like. A user can operate the multipurpose machine  by pushing various buttons provided in the operating unit . The display unit  includes a liquid crystal display employing, for example, a touch panel. The display unit  can display the state of the multipurpose machine  or display and input various settings. The image acquiring unit  acquires image data via the scanner . For this purpose, the image acquiring unit  has a CIS type or a CSS type scan head.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["1","92","91","90","1","89","1","88","4","88","88","3","4","4","88"]},"The PC  also includes information equipment driver group . The information equipment driver group  includes a standard driver group  that is preinstalled as standard in the OS and an IHV-made driver (group)  that can be provided from the IHV. The IHV-made driver  is a driver that corresponds to any device capable of being connected to the network  and information equipment provided in the device, and is stored in advance in a predetermined storage unit of the PC . The IHV-made driver may be an OS-provided driver or a full specification driver. A FinishInstall action (hereinafter also referred to as \u201cpost-processing\u201d) is packaged in the IHV-made driver . The FinishInstall action is an action that is pre-defined in the setting file of the IHV-made driver  to be installed on the PC  by the control of the PnPX. When the OS confirms that the FinishInstall action is defined in the setting file of the installed IHV-made driver, the OS provides instructions to the IHV-made driver  to cause it to execute driver post-processing. Driver post-processing is processing for acquiring a supplement installer from the IHV Web server .","More specifically, the OS transmits a DIF_FINISHINSTALL_ACTION message, i.e., a message that orders execution of post-processing, to the THY-made driver. When the IHV-made driver  receives the DIF_FINISHINSTALL_ACTION message, the IHV-made driver  executes driver post-processing. Note that the post-processing is not necessarily packaged in the IHV-made driver . In the present embodiment, it is assumed that post-processing is packaged in the setting file of a printer driver. The FinishInstall action described above is disclosed in the following reference document 1. Reference document 1: FinishInstall action of information equipment for Windows Vista, URL: https:\/\/www.microsoft.com\/japan\/whdc\/driver\/install\/Finish_Install.mspx","Also, the PC  includes an API\/DDI . API is an abbreviation for Application Programming Interface. DDI is an abbreviation for Device Driver Interface. The API\/DDI  passes, for example, the event of WSDiscovery, to be described below with reference to , to a network monitor (NM) . The NM  acquires information about the information equipment provided in a device (the multipurpose machine ) to be described below with reference to  via the API\/DDI . Also, the NM  displays a screen shown in  to -C via the API\/DDI . The application  is an application that can issue a print instruction or a scan instruction. The OS may have the application  bundled or the PC  may acquire the application  from the IHV-made Web server , and thereby install the application  as the application  on the OS. Among the modules included in the software configuration of the PC described above, the IHV native protocol control stack  and the IHV-made driver  are IHV-made modules, the modules other than these are modules that are preinstalled as standard in the OS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-A","FIG. 4-A","FIG. 4-A","FIGS. 4-B","FIG. 5","FIG. 4-B","FIG. 4-C"],"b":["4","80","80","4","42","1","4","80","3","4","3","4","3","4","80","80","43","3","43","80","51","51","122","3","121","3","122","121","1","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["1","1","3","3","3","1","122","3","90","90","122","121","3","91","91","121","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 8-A","FIG. 8-A"],"b":["8","131","1","131","201","202","203","202","201","203"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 8-B"},"The full specification driver table  has data structures such as a machine name, a device type, a driver name, and a download URL. The machine name is the machine name of the device or the machine name of the information equipment provided in the device. The device type is the type of the device or the type of the information equipment provided in the device. The driver name is a full specification driver required for using the functions of the device or the information equipment shown by the machine name. The download URL is the positional information about the full specification driver corresponding to the driver name. More specifically, the download URL is the positional information about the full specification driver provided in the IHV Web server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 5","FIG. 4-B"],"b":["80","1","1","80","4","3","4","2","3","1","1","3","80","43","3","4"]},"When a user specifies the icon  by operating the mouse, the NM  displays an install menu  (see ) on the screen. When a user selects the install menu , the OS and the PnPX control module  start the execution of the PnPX for the multipurpose machine  (step S). In other words, the OS that functions as a first installation unit installs a first driver corresponding to the multipurpose machine  via plug-and-play. Note that the OS may automatically start the execution of the PnPX for the multipurpose machine  upon connection of the multipurpose machine  to the network  without causing the NB  to display the icon  denoting the multipurpose machine  on the screen. When the execution of the PnPX is started, the OS provides instructions for acquiring information about the information equipment provided in the multipurpose machine  with respect to the multipurpose machine  using the function of the WSD, and thus acquires information about the information equipment as shown in, for example,  from the multipurpose machine  that has responded to the instruction (step S).","The PC  executes the processes in steps S to S to be described below for all of the information equipment that corresponds to information about the information equipment acquired in step S (steps S and S). The OS of the PC  recognizes that the multipurpose machine  includes two pieces of information equipment that is a printer and a scanner based on information about the information equipment shown in, for example, . Therefore, the OS executes the processes in steps S to S for each of the recognized printer and scanner as the target information equipment.","The OS of the PC  retrieves an IHV-made driver for the target information equipment (step S). When the IHV-made driver is present as a result of retrieval, the OS of the PC  installs the IHV-made driver as a first driver (step S). Since the first driver is preinstalled in the OS, the first driver is a driver (driver for providing OS or OS-provided driver), for being provided to the OS, for which a reduced volume or limitations on interfaces with the functions of the OS have been set. Subsequently, the OS determines whether or not post-processing is defined in the setting file of the installed IHV-made driver (step S). When post-processing is not defined in the setting file of the IHV-made driver, the loop is ended (step S). When post-processing is defined in the setting file of the IHV-made driver, the OS calls post-processing (step S). More specifically, the OS notifies the IHV-made driver about the DIF_FINISHINSTALL_ACTION to thereby cause the IHV-made driver to install the supplement installer . When the processing for all of the information equipment has ended, the loop is ended (step S). Then, the OS displays information indicating that the PnPX has been completed (step S).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["11","111","112","115","131","100","4","113","131","114","131","131"]},"As described with reference to , the first installation unit (OS) acquires a second installation unit configured to install a second driver, which enables the functions of the device to be used, on the PC  upon installation of the first driver on the PC .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["114","131","201","131","202","204","131","131","203","205"]},"Next, the supplement installer  displays that a supplement installation is to be started (step S). The additional installation is to install a second driver, which enables the functions of the information equipment to be used, in addition to the installed first driver (see step S in ). Subsequently, the supplement installer  lists the full specification drivers corresponding to the target information equipment based on the full specification driver table shown in  and the machine names of the target information equipment (step S). The machine names have been conveyed to the supplement installer  upon activation thereof.","Next, the supplement installer  executes the processes in steps S to S for all of the target information equipment provided in the multipurpose machine  (step S). First, as described below, the supplement installer  determines whether or not a full specification driver needs to be installed on the PC  by executing the processes in steps S and S. For any information equipment, the supplement installer  examines whether or not a first driver corresponding to the information equipment has already been installed on the PC  (step S). When the first driver corresponding to the information equipment has already been installed, the supplement installer  determines whether or not the first driver corresponds to a full specification driver, which has been listed in step S, corresponding to the information equipment (step S).","When the first driver corresponds to the full specification driver, the process advances to step S and the loop is ended. When the first driver does not correspond to the full specification driver, the supplement installer  determines that the full specification driver needs to be installed on the PC . Then, the supplement installer  refers to the full specification driver table shown in  to thereby acquire a download URL corresponding to the full specification driver. Then, the supplement installer  downloads the full specification driver from the THY Web server  based on the acquired download URL (step S).","When the supplement installer  determines in step S that the first driver has not been installed on the PC , the supplement installer  determines that the full specification driver needs to be installed on the PC , and the process advances to step S. Subsequently, the supplement installer  installs the downloaded full specification driver (step S), and the loop is ended (step S). This full specification driver is a driver of which the functions are not limited compared to that of the aforementioned first driver. Hence, many functions can be employed by the full specification driver. When the entire of the loop has ended, the supplement installer  displays that additional installation has been completed (step S), and the process is ended.","The aforementioned information processing apparatus of the first embodiment installs a first driver corresponding to a device upon execution of the PnPX for the device connected to the network  and executes the following processing as well. The additional installer  of the information processing apparatus determines whether or not the full specification driver of the information equipment provided in the device has already been installed, and determines whether or not a second driver (full specification driver) needs to be installed based on the determination result. Then, when the supplement installer  determines that the second driver needs to be installed, the supplement installer  installs the second driver on the information processing apparatus via the network . Therefore, according to the information processing apparatus, through execution of the PnPX for the device, the full specification drivers of all of the information equipment provided in the device can be installed. The installation method of the present embodiment is realized by the function of the supplement installer . The installation method is executed in post-processing after driver installation in response to a connection of the device to a network. The installation method includes a determination step of determining whether or not the installed driver is a full specification driver. The installation method also includes an installation step of installing a full specification driver when the determination step determines that the installed driver is not a full specification driver. Also, the computer program of the present embodiment may be a program that realizes the installation method.","Next, a description will be given of a second embodiment. The overall operation processing performed by the information processing apparatus of the second embodiment is similar to the operation processing described with reference to . Also, call processing for post-processing to be executed by the information processing apparatus of the second embodiment is similar to call processing for post-processing described with reference to . Note that in the second embodiment, the IHV Web server  includes a supplement installer  that has a function different from that of the supplement installer . Therefore, in steps S and S shown in , the OS acquires the supplement installer  for execution. Also, in the second embodiment, a principal driver to be described below is a second driver.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["10","1","1","70","10","33","38","33","31","34","35","36","37","36","3","38","38","70","70"]},"The application  is an application that is capable of issuing a print instruction. The application  corresponds to, for example, the Notepad text editor (Notepad.exe) or the like which is preinstalled as standard in the OS. GDI (Graphics Device Interface)  has a function that receives a print command. Note that a printer driver that can receive a print command via the GDI refers to a GDI printer driver. A printer queue  queues a print job. The printer queue  is provided in a spooler . The queued print job is displayed on a printer queue folder (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIGS. 13-A","FIG. 13-A","FIG. 8-A"],"b":["13","132","132","201","202","204","205","206","201","202","201","202","131"]},"The driver component table  is a table in which information about the driver component is set. The driver component is a component that operates in combination with the driver. For example, the port monitor  or the like shown in  corresponds to the driver component. The driver function list table  is a table in which information about the driver that corresponds to the information equipment included in the device is set. The application function table  is a table in which information about information equipment, a driver, and an output port that are required for the execution of an application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 13-B","FIG. 1"],"b":["204","204","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 14-A","FIG. 14-A"],"b":["14","205","205","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 14-B","b":["206","206"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15","FIG. 11"],"b":["301","305","201","205","132","306","132","306","10","132","307","132","10","308"]},"Next, the supplement installer  generates a principal function table for each installed application using the application function table  (step S). The principal function table is a table that indicates the function (principal function) required for the execution of the installed application. For example, assume the case where all of a photo print application A, a photo print application B, and a scan assistance application C shown in the application function table  of  are installed. The additional installer  refers to the application function table  shown in  to thereby generate the principal function table as shown in .","The principal function table shown in  has a data configuration such as a principal information equipment type, a principal driver type, and a principal driver port. The principal information equipment type is the type of information equipment required for the execution of the installed application. The principal driver type is the type of a driver (principal driver) that is required for employing the functions of the information equipment. The principal driver port is an output port (principal output port) that corresponds to the driver. In other words, the principal function table indicates the corresponding information among principal information equipment required for the execution of an application, a principal driver required for the execution of the application, and a principal output port required for the execution of the application. Hereinafter, the principal information equipment type, the principal driver type, and the principal driver port, which are listed in the principal function table, are also referred to as an \u201cprincipal function\u201d.","Referring back to , the supplement installer  refers to the principal function table generated in step S, and executes the following processing for each piece of principal information equipment (step S). The additional installer  determines whether or not a driver corresponding to the target information equipment has been installed on the PC  (step S). When a driver corresponding to the target information equipment has not been installed on the PC , the supplement installer  retrieves the driver function list table  and determines whether or not there is a driver that satisfies all of the principal functions corresponding to the target information equipment in the principal function table (step S). As a result of retrieval, when there is no driver that satisfies all of the principal functions corresponding to the target information equipment in the principal function table, the loop is ended (step S). In this way, execution processing for executing a supplement installer is ended (step S). When there is a driver that satisfies all of the principal functions corresponding to the target information equipment in the principal function table, the process advances to step S. Note that in step S, the supplement installer  may determine whether or not a driver (e.g., a principal driver corresponding to a principal driver type) that satisfies a part of the principal function is present in a driver function list .","Next, the supplement installer  determines whether or not only one driver has been obtained as a result of retrieval in step S (step S). When only one driver has been obtained as a result of retrieval, the supplement installer  determines that the obtained driver is to be installed (step S), and the process advances to step S. When a plurality of drivers has been obtained as a result of retrieval, the supplement installer  refers to the driver function list table , and determines from the plurality of obtained drivers that the driver with the highest priority is to be installed (step S). Then, the process advances to step S.","Next, the supplement installer  acquires an URL, which corresponds to the driver determined to be installed, based on the driver function list table  (step S). The additional installer  downloads the driver from the URL acquired in step S (step S). The additional installer  installs the downloaded driver. Then, the supplement installer  sets an output port to a principal driver port corresponding to the target information equipment in the principal function table (step S), and the process advances to step S.","When the driver corresponding to the target information equipment has already been installed on the PC  as a result of determination processing in step S, the supplement installer  executes the following processing. The additional installer  determines whether or not a driver of the principal driver type, which corresponds to the target information equipment in the principal function table, has already been installed on the PC  (step S). When a driver of the principal driver type has not been installed on the PC , the process advances to step S. When a driver of the principal driver type has already been installed on the PC , the process advances to step S.","Next, the supplement installer  determines whether or not a principal driver port (principal output port) corresponding to the target information equipment is set in the principal function table (step S). When a principal driver port corresponding to the target information equipment is not set in the principal function table, the process advances to step S. When a principal driver port corresponding to the target information equipment is set in the principal function table, the process advances to step S.","Next, the supplement installer  determines whether or not an output port, which is currently set on the PC  as an output port corresponding to the installed driver, is a principal output port (step S). When the set output port is a principal output port, the process advances to step S. When the set output port is not a principal output port, the supplement installer  determines that a principal output port corresponding to the target information equipment is absent on the PC , the process advances to step S.","In step S, the supplement installer  determines that a port module for realizing a principal output port is to be installed (step S). More specifically, the supplement installer  refers to the driver component table  as shown in , and determines that a port monitor corresponding to the principal output port is to be installed. Also, the supplement installer  refers to a driver component table, and acquires the URL of the port module that is determined to be installed (step S). Subsequently, the supplement installer  downloads the port module from the acquired URL (step S). Then, the supplement installer  installs the downloaded port module (step S), and the process advances to step S.","The aforementioned information processing apparatus of the second embodiment installs a first driver corresponding to a device upon execution of the PnPX for the device connected to the network  and executes the following processing as well. The additional installer  provided in the information processing apparatus determines whether or not a principal driver, which corresponds to the principal information equipment required for the execution of the selected application, has already been installed on the information processing apparatus (steps S and S). When a principal driver, which corresponds to the principal information equipment for the information processing apparatus, has not been installed, the supplement installer  installs the principal driver via the network . Therefore, according to the information processing apparatus, the principal drivers for all of the information equipment required for the execution of the selected application can be installed upon execution of the PnPX.","Also, the supplement installer  installs a principal driver that has been selected from among the principal drivers in accordance with a predetermined priority for driver installation, when the principal driver has not yet been installed on the PC  (steps S and S). Therefore, according to the information processing apparatus of the second embodiment, a principal driver with the first priority order can be installed on all of the information equipment required for the execution of the selected application upon execution of the PnPX.","Also, when a principal driver has already been installed on the PC , the supplement installer  determines whether or not a principal output port, which is associated with the principal driver in the principal function table, is present on the PC  (steps S and S). Then, when there is a principal output port, which is associated with the principal driver, is absent on the PC , the supplement installer  installs an unit (port module) configured to realize the principal output port (step S). Therefore, according to the information processing apparatus of the second embodiment, a principal output port, which corresponds to a principal driver required for the execution of the selected application, can be set upon execution of the PnPX.","According to the information processing apparatus of the present invention described above, a driver, which enables the function of a device to be used, can be installed on the information processing apparatus upon execution of the PnPX for a device connected to network. Therefore, for example, a user can install the full specification driver for the device on the information processing apparatus via plug-and-play without looking for the driver for the device which the user wishes to use.","Aspects of the present invention can also be realized by a computer of a system or apparatus (or devices such as a CPU or MPU) that reads out and executes a program recorded on a memory device to perform the functions of the above-described embodiments, and by a method, the steps of which are performed by a computer of a system or apparatus by, for example, reading out and executing a program recorded on a memory device to perform the functions of the above-described embodiments. For this purpose, the program is provided to the computer for example via a network or from a recording medium of various types serving as the memory device (e.g., computer-readable medium).","While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.","This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2010-053951 filed Mar. 11, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2-A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4-A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8-A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13-A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 13-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 14-A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 14-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
