---
title: Method for the hydrogenation of poly-si
abstract: A method for hydrogenating poly-si. Poly-si is placed into the interior of a chamber. A filament is placed into the interior of a chamber. The base pressure of the interior of the chamber is evacuated, preferably to 10Torr or less. The poly-si is heated for a predetermined poly-si heating time. The filament is heated by providing an electrical power to the filament. Hydrogen is supplied into the pressurized interior of the chamber comprising the heated poly-si and the heated filament. Atomic hydrogen is produced by the filament at a rate whereby the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si is less than the poly-si surface density. Preferably, the poly-si is covered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first predetermined covering time. Preferably, the poly-si is then uncovered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first hydrogenation time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08580661&OS=08580661&RS=08580661
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08580661
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110824
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Calculating the Maximum Hydrogen Supply Rate","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. "],"p":["The United States Government has rights in this invention under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308 between the United States Department of Energy and the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC, the manager and operator of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.","The present invention relates to the hydrogenation of poly-si, preferably for use in photovoltaics.","Poly-si is a key component for integrated circuits and photovoltaics. Poly-si has long been used as the conducting gate material in MOSFET and CMOS processing technologies, etc. Poly-si is generally formed on a poly-si by pyrolyzing silane (SiH) at 580 to 650\u00b0 C. Generally, poly-si layers are deposited using 100% silane or 20-30% silane (diluted in nitrogen) both at a pressure of 25-130 Pa (0.2 to 1.0 Torr). However, other deposition techniques are also used, for example, low-pressure chemical-vapor deposition (LPCVD). Sadly, poly-si photovoltaics, although low cost, do not currently provide acceptable efficiencies for large-scale use.","A method for hydrogenating poly-si. Poly-si is placed into the interior of a chamber. A filament is placed into the interior of a chamber. The base pressure of the interior of the chamber is evacuated, preferably to 10Torr or less. The poly-si is heated for a predetermined poly-si heating time. The filament is heated by providing an electrical power to the filament. Hydrogen is supplied into the pressurized interior of the chamber comprising the heated poly-si and the heated filament. Atomic hydrogen is produced by the filament at a rate whereby the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si is less than the poly-si surface density. Preferably, the poly-si is covered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first predetermined covering time. Preferably, the poly-si is then uncovered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first hydrogenation time.","A method for hydrogenating poly-si. Poly-si is placed into the interior of a chamber. A filament is placed into the interior of the chamber. The base pressure of the interior of the chamber is evacuated, preferably to 10Torr or less. The poly-si is heated for a predetermined poly-si heating time. The filament is heated by providing electrical power to the filament. Hydrogen is supplied into the evacuated interior of the chamber comprising the heated poly-si and the heated filament. Atomic hydrogen is produced by the filament at a rate whereby the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si is less than the poly-si surface density. Preferably, the poly-si is covered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first predetermined covering time. Preferably, the poly-si is then uncovered from the atomic hydrogen produced by the heated filament for a first hydrogenation time.","Preferably, the hydrogen is supplied at rate to minimize the etching of the poly-si, while also maximizing the hydrogen flow in order to reduce the time needed for hydrogenation. Atomic hydrogen is produced by the filament at a rate whereby the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si is less than the poly-si surface density. In a preferred embodiment, the surface density of the poly-si (\u02dc6.77E14\/cmfor 100 orientation; \u02dc9.60E14\/cmfor 110 orientation; \u02dc7.83E14\/cmfor 111 orientation) is used in calculations to determine an optimal hydrogen supply rate. Preferably, the hydrogen surface density is less than the poly-si surface density in any direction. The hydrogen per volume (n) may be calculated using the ideal gas law as follows in Eq. 1:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":["P","kT"]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":["2","\u221223 ","3"]},"Once the hydrogen per volume has been determined, preferably the atomic hydrogen (H) is determined for the filament used. The total number of atomic hydrogen (H) near the filament is simply as follows in Eq. 2:\n\n*Eff.*2\u2003\u2003(Eq. 2)\n","Where the His the total number of atomic hydrogen; N is the hydrogen per volume, Fis the filament volume, Eff. Is the atomic hydrogen generation efficiency; and 2 is the number of atomic hydrogen produced when splitting H. For example, for a filament having a length of 15 cm; a diameter of 0.5 cm, and a hydrogen generation efficiency of 50% (approximate for the filament at 1,800K), the total number of atomic hydrogen would be calculated to 9.95E16. Preferably, the hydrogen generation efficiency is calculated or determined experimentally. In one embodiment, the hydrogen generation efficiency is determined using a means similar to the means described in Bornscheuer, K. H.; Lucas, S. R.; Choyke, W. J.; Partlow, W. D.; Yates, J. T.; \u201cReflector atomic hydrogen source: A method for producing pure atomic hydrogen in ultrahigh vacuum,\u201d Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A: Vacuum, Surfaces, and Films, vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 2822-2826, September 1993, hereby fully incorporated by reference.","Once the total number of atomic hydrogen has been determined, the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si (H) can be determined using the following Eq. 3:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mrow":{"mi":["Poly","Si"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"-"}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["H","Total"]},{"mi":["A","Surface"]}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["poly-si ","Total ","surface ","poly-si"],"sup":"2"},"Preferably, the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si (H,) is optimized to be below the poly-si density at the surface (\u02dc6.77E14\/cmfor 100 orientation; \u02dc9.60E14\/cmfor 110 orientation; \u02dc7.83E14\/cmfor 111 orientation). As the poly-si density at the surface for 100 orientation Si is the lowest density, preferably, the hydrogen supply rate and the poly-si temperature, including any other variables, are optimized to maintain the atomic hydrogen surface density at the poly-si (H) below \u02dc6.77E14\/cm(the poly-si density at the surface for 100 orientation).","Preferably, while hydrogen is supplied, the poly-si material is maintained at a temperature above 126.85\u00b0 C.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","1","3","5","7","9","13"]},"The substrate is any rigid body capable of maintaining the structural integrity of the photovoltaic cell . Preferably, the substrate  is glass.","The n-type semiconductor  is any n-type semiconductor, more preferably a PHmixed with SiH, preferably forming a 0.5 micron layer. Preferably, the n-type semiconductor layer  is deposited by HWCVD (hot wire chemical vapor deposition). In a preferred embodiment, n-type semiconductor layer  is deposited by HWCVD is at 540\u00b0 C., with a process pressure of 9 mTorr.","The poly-si  is any material comprising poly-si. Preferably, the poly-si  is formed from SiH. Preferably the poly-si  is deposited by HWCVD. In a preferred embodiment, the poly-si  is deposited by HWCVD at 550 to 710\u00b0 C., with a SiHpressure of 9 mTorr, preferably forming a 1.5 micron layer of poly-si . Once formed, the poly-si  is preferably hydrogenated. In a preferred embodiment, once formed, the poly-si  is hydrogenated, with a hydrogen pressure of 300 mTorr, for 90 minutes at 550\u00b0 C.","The heterojunction  is two layers or regions of dissimilar crystalline semiconductors. In a preferred embodiment, the heterojunction  is a thin i-type semiconductor, preferably SiH, juxtaposed to a p-type semiconductor, preferably SiHmixed with Trimethylboron (TMB) or other gases containing boron. Preferably, the heterojunction  is a 6 nm SiHi-layer and a 12 nm SiHmixed with TMB p-layer. In a preferred embodiment, the heterojunction  is a 6 nm SiHi-layer deposited by HWCVD at 180\u00b0 C. at 9 mTorr and a 12 nm SiHmixed with TMB p-layer deposited by HWCVD at 180\u00b0 C. at 65 mTorr.","The transparent electrode  is any transparent (allows at least some photons to pass through) electrically conductive material, preferably a transparent conducting oxide (TCO), more preferably Indium tin oxide (ITO). In other embodiments, the TCOs is aluminum-doped zinc-oxide (AZO) or indium-doped cadmium-oxide. Preferably, the electrode an 80 nm thick ITO layer, deposited by evaporation at 170\u00b0 C.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["21","21","23","25","27","29","31","33","25","27","29","33","31","29","29"]},"The chamber  is preferably made from stainless steel or quartz tube. The chamber  has ports for gas inlet, vacuum pumping, filament electrodes, and mounting the shutter. Preferably, the base pressure of the interior of the chamber  is 10Torr or less. Preferably, one or more vacuums (not shown for simplicity) extract fluid out of the interior of the chamber , preferably using one or more pumps.","The heater  is anything capable of heating the poly-si . Preferably, the heater  is a ceramic heater, however other heaters may also be used, for example lasers, furnaces, radioactive sources etc. Preferably, the poly-si  is heated at least above 126.85\u00b0 C. In a preferred embodiment, the poly-si is heated between, and including, 300 and 600\u00b0 C., more preferably between, and including, 550 and 600\u00b0 C. Preferably, the filament  is 15 cm long, and positioned 5 cm from the poly-si . Preferably, the poly-si  is heated for a predetermined poly-si heating time before hydrogenation begins. The predetermined poly-si heating time is the time necessary to heat the poly-si  in , to the desired temperature, preferably from 300 to 600\u00b0 C., more preferably approximately 550\u00b0 C. The predetermined poly-si heating time is preferably optimized, thereby minimizing the time, while also accounting for poly-si size, material, heater size, temperature, thermal conductivity etc.","The hydrogen supply  is preferably a hydrogen tank, or hydrogen source (e.g. electrolysis of water) with any necessary pumps, valves, etc. Preferably, the supply source supplies hydrogen at a pressure between 100-500 mTorr.","The shutter  is preferably made from stainless steel or quartz plate and mounted on a linear positioner through a vacuum port. The shutter  is closed, thereby not allowing atomic hydrogen produce by the filament  to pass to the poly-si  for a first predetermined covering time. Preferably, the first predetermined covering time is optimized to minimize unnecessary exposure to the heating of the poly-si  by the filament , while the filament  is heated to its desired temperature. In one embodiment, the first predetermined covering time is 30 minutes.","The filament  is preferably a filament made of tungsten, tantalum, graphite, or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the filament  is a tungsten filament with a 0.5 mm diameter and a length of 15 cm. Preferably the filament  is 5 cm from the poly-si . The filament  is electrically connected, preferably by one or more wires, to a power source (not shown for simplicity). Preferably, the power source provides between, and including, 6 to 18 amps of current (approximately 1,500 to 2,300\u00b0 C. for a 0.5 mm diameter tungsten filament), more preferably approximately 10 amps. Preferably, to avoid damaging the poly-si , the filament is heated to a temperature less than 2,300\u00b0 C., more preferably between 1,500 to 2,300\u00b0 C.","Once the poly-si  material has been heated, preferably the shutter  is opened to allow for the atomic hydrogen produced at the heated filament  to pass to the poly-si  for a first predetermined hydrogenation time. Preferably, the first predetermined hydrogenation time is optimized to maximize the desired hydrogenation of the poly-si  for factors such as filament  temperature, poly-si  temperature, the hydrogen supply  rate (hydrogen pressure), the chamber  pressure etc. In a preferred embodiment, the first predetermined hydrogenation time is 30 minutes.","After said steps of heating the poly-si, heating the filament, covering the poly-si, and uncovering the poly-si, preferably the heated poly-si is cooled in hydrogen (H).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["21","23","25","27","29","31","33","3","5","3","25","27","29","7","23","25","27","29","31","33","3","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["21","23","25","27","29","31","33","3","33","25","3","25","27","29","7","23","25","27","29","31","33","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["21","23","25","27","29","31","32","33","3","33","25","3","25","27","29","7","23","25","27","29","31","33","3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 6"],"i":["a ","a"],"b":["41","43"],"sub":["OC ","SC "],"sup":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"i":"b "},"It is to be understood that the above-described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.","All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.","Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state \u201cmeans for\u201d performing a specified function, or \u201cstep for\u201d performing a specific function, is not to be interpreted as a \u201cmeans\u201d or \u201cstep\u201d clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112, \u00b66. In particular, the use of \u201cstep of\u201d in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112, \u00b66."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"i":"b "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
