---
title: Event auditing framework
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for event auditing framework are described herein. The auditing framework includes one or more auditees, an auditor, and a memory associated with the auditor. Each auditee is associated with a digitally signed file including metadata of one or more events authorized for the auditee. The auditor validates digital signature of the file when the auditee is registered with the auditor. After validation of the digital signature, the metadata of the authorized events is stored with respect to the auditee to enable the auditee perform the authorized events. The auditing framework is expandable in that new event types can be added or updated dynamically. The auditing framework also ensures consistency of events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849770&OS=08849770&RS=08849770
owner: Business Objects Software Limited
number: 08849770
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110516
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The field relates generally to auditing systems. More particularly, the field relates to an event auditing framework for information technology (IT) systems.","Information Technology (IT) systems are widely used. There are several types of IT systems such as, for example, systems related to organizational functions and analytical application systems. Several operations can be performed in an IT system and different users use the system in different ways. Information about usage of an IT system may be required for various purposes such as compliance requirements. The system usage information may also be required for user profiling, which can be utilized to provide users with information that is relevant and is of interest to them. Tracking usage of an IT system is therefore a useful and important activity.","A common solution to track usage of an IT system is by creating log files. However, data in the log files is usually inconsistent and not flexible enough for reporting. For example, a large number of components may write to a log file. Each component may log a different message for the same event or action. For example, a first component may write \u201cAt 11:29:03 a document \u2018Quarterly Sales\u2019 was retrieved by user U,\u201d a second component may write \u201cReport R.rpt viewed,\u201d and a third component may write \u201cUser U accessed sales.pdf\u201d. These events may have the same meaning, i.e., a user had accessed a particular piece of information, namely, accessing a Quarter  sales report. However, it is not clear from the corresponding log files that these events are same. Also, some components may not write the details about time at which the operation is performed or the user who performed the operation. There is no consistency in the way components write to a log file.","Some types of event logging frameworks allow slightly more structural data. For example, time, user, and process name can be always recorded. However, the content of the logged message can still be difficult to interpret and consistency of the message cannot be ensured. The data in the log files may not be readily useful for reporting purposes. Some usage tracking frameworks format event data and store in a database. This stored event data can be used for reporting. However, such event tracking frameworks are not expandable in that new events can only be added in a new version of the framework. Also, the consistency of events cannot be ensured. Some expandable systems may allow addition of new events. However, in such expandable systems, it is difficult to enforce consistency of events generated by each of the several components.","It would therefore be desirable to provide an expandable auditing system that ensures consistency of events so that data can be readily consumed for reporting purposes.","Various embodiments of systems and methods for event auditing framework are described herein. The auditing framework includes one or more auditees, an auditor, and a memory associated with the auditor. Each auditee is associated with a digitally signed file including metadata of one or more events authorized for the auditee. An auditee is a component of an IT system which generates auditing events. The auditee generates auditing events according to metadata defined in the digitally signed file which defines the events that the auditee can generate. The auditor validates digital signature of the file when the auditee is registered with the auditor. After validation of the digital signature, the metadata of the authorized events is stored with respect to the auditee to enable the auditee perform the authorized events. The auditing framework is expandable in that new event types can be added or updated dynamically (even after a release). The auditing framework also ensures consistency of events which in turn ensures ease of reporting and data consumption.","These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof, presented in connection with the following drawings.","Embodiments of techniques for event auditing framework are described herein. In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other methods, components, materials, etc. In other instances, well-known structures, materials, or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","Reference throughout this specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d, \u201cthis embodiment\u201d and similar phrases, means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.","Auditing is a function for maintaining a record of significant events performed in an IT system. These significant events vary depending on the type of the system and are referred to as auditable events. An example of an IT system is a Business Intelligence (BI) system. Business Intelligence broadly refers to a category of software systems and applications used by business enterprises to query, analyze, report, and leverage data. SAP\u00ae BusinessObjects\u2122 Business Intelligence platform from the software firm SAP AG of Walldorf, Germany, is one such BI system. BusinessObjects\u2122 Business Intelligence platform delivers a scalable and adaptive services-oriented architecture.","The records of auditable events that are maintained in an IT system should be able to provide a picture of what information is accessed, how the information is accessed, when the information is accessed, and who accessed the information. The records can also be used to track system configuration, changes to information, modification, deletion, editing, etc. Two main components are used for auditing, namely, an auditor and an auditee. An auditor refers to a system that is responsible for recording or storing information on any auditable event. An auditee refers to a system that is responsible for generating auditing events. In one embodiment, a single system can be both an auditor and an auditee. In the case of BusinessObjects\u2122 Enterprise, a Central Management Server (CMS) acts as the system auditor and each BusinessObjects Enterprise server acts as an auditee. In another embodiment, an auditor and an auditee can be separate systems.","An auditor is responsible for collecting and writing the events to an auditing database. When an auditee has been requested to perform an operation that has to be audited, the auditee will generate an auditing event record and store it in a local temporary file. At regular intervals the auditor communicates with the auditee servers to request copies of records from their local temporary files. When the auditor receives these records, it writes the data to the auditing database. The auditor can also control the synchronization of auditing events that occur on different machines. Each auditee provides a time stamp for the auditing events that it records. To ensure that the time stamps of events on different servers are consistent, the auditor periodically broadcasts its system time to the auditees. The auditees then compare this time to their internal clocks. If differences exist, the auditees make a correction to the time they record for subsequent auditing events.","Several workflows to record the auditable events are used based on the type of client being audited.  illustrates an example of a workflow of an auditing system . An auditable event is performed by a server at step . The auditee writes the auditable events in a temporary file at step . At step , the auditor polls the auditee periodically and requests a batch of auditable events that are written in the temporary file. In one embodiment, the auditor periodically polls the auditee for every three minutes or other prescribed time period. The auditee retrieves auditing events from the temporary files at step . The auditee then transmits the auditable events to the auditor at step . At step , the auditor writes events to the auditing database. The auditee deletes the files from temporary files only after confirmation from the auditor that the events were successfully written to the auditing database.","For an IT system such as a BI platform, a list of auditable events is provided along with the release of the platform. The type of the events can vary depending on the IT system. In the context of a BI system, examples of events include View, Edit, Refresh, Modify, Run, Logon, Deliver, Logout, and Trigger events. This list of events is not exhaustive and there can be several other types of events depending on the IT system.","The auditing process records and stores only the events that are part of the list that is provided at the time of the release of a platform. New events can be included for auditing only in a new version of the platform that is released at a later time. For example, referring to , auditable events - are included in a \u201cVersion 1\u201d of an auditing platform  or a BI platform. Therefore, events - can be audited in \u201cVersion 1\u201d of the auditing platform . Referring to , if new events have to be added for auditing, it can only be possible by including the new events in a new version (Version 2) release of the auditing platform  or a BI platform. For example, new events - are included in a \u201cVersion 2\u201d of the auditing platform . Events - can then be audited in \u201cVersion 2\u201d of the auditing platform . Also, while adding the new events in a new version, consistency about the event details that have to be recorded may not be ensured. The event auditing framework as described below allows dynamic addition of new events even after release and ensures consistency of events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","304","306","302","304","306","304","306","304","306","1","4","1","4","5","8","5","8"]},"In one embodiment, the digitally signed file is a Default InfoObject (DFO) file or Default InfoObject template (DFT) file with a digital signature. A DFO or DFT file is a text file containing an XML description of a metadata object, which can be called as an InfoObject. The metadata objects comprise name-value pairs that allow certain property types and allow nested property bags. The metadata objects can represent something concrete such as a user, server, or application, or something abstract such as an \u201cAudit Event Information\u201d object. An example of DFO file with a digital signature is presented below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d standalone=\u201cno\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<plugin xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/www.businessobjects.com\/BusinessObjects_pin.xsd\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<propertybag flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cCrystalEnterprise.BIP.CafApplication\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"type=\u201cInfoobject\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_KIND\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>BIP.CafApplication<\/property>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_PROGID\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>CrystalEnterprise.BIP.CafApplication<\/property>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_NAME\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d><\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_PARENT_CUID\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>AR1Zth00HO5Bp8N4HfboAYg<\/property>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_CUID\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>Af9fX5We.TVJu_6eVqnxufQ<\/property>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<property flags=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cSI_APPLICATION_OBJECT\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cBool\u201d>True<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/propertybag>"]},{"entry":[{},"<propertybag name=\u201cSI_SUPPORTED_AUDIT_EVENTS\u201d type=\u201cArray\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"flags=\u201c0\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cSI_TOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d>1<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d><\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201c__\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"flags=\u201c0\u201d>cmdmAEapw3tGwi0\/UnS2d2wzjoEk1kc107dS+HVhWHQrbYPCgzQBEmCq"},{"entry":"r7Zc37QaZewB61AlNRpAXOUSIfEjoY7N3iuNdxPdBAUUFlhGE9j4PMJf\/DT+JZdfsQ"},{"entry":"M1xDavWvk1lptIk4rGMypoR3A9\/QDd+ogDE\/bB+mWT7T\/w5334d4QXqvYgbuQLnV"},{"entry":"n8O+l0I7IbvF95Z9qtDzN5beeJUTgfDuA2e9eUi6ilHcbA5T8FMTkbaMkD2UxdcLhvDx"},{"entry":"qgfmlr9HyShQvgM6YatfwjLQxxYOt\/GZ8GffDbLt00nBYqQ\/1BWX9aool2iBsmt51hQ"},{"entry":"LaCHwI1lPuT2GChAzK7uw<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"<\/plugin>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The above DFO file shows that that \u201cInfoview\u201d auditee (shown in bold) is only allowed to fire the event \u201c1002\u201d (shown in bold). The DFO file is also signed (SI_AUDITING_SIGNATURE).","An example of a data structure used to define the events in the file is explained below. Each event can contain a number of details with property and value pairs. The data is defined in such a way that the events and the event details can be extended even after the release of the framework. An object repository contains an object that describes the events that can be generated by the auditing framework. The below data structure example is given in Extensible Markup Language (XML).","Arrays have the following format:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<array name=\u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<!-- Array Element Number 1 -->"]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement index=\u201c1\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/arrayelement>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/array>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Property\/value pairs have the following format:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0034"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<propertybag name=\u201cPropertyGroupName\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name...>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/propertybag>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"An \u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d array contains definitions of each type of audit event. This array is presented below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0036"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003<array name=\u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<arrayelement index=\u201c1\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1000<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>View<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<array name=\u201cSTATUSES\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<arrayelement name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cSTATUS\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>0<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>Viewed"},{"entry":"Successfully<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<arrayelement name=\u201c2\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cSTATUS\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>View"},{"entry":"Failed<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>2<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>3<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cAUDIT_CATEGORY\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<propertybag name=\u201cSUPPORTED_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d"},{"entry":"type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c2\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>2<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c3\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>3<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c24\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>72<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c25\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>73<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c26\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>74<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>26<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<propertybag name=\u201cMANDATORY_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d"},{"entry":"type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>17<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The above array defines event \u201c1000.\u201d The event \u201c1000\u201d is named as \u201cView.\u201d For each event there can be a status indicating the result of the action that is being audited. The \u201cSTATUSES\u201d array contains a mapping of result code to description of the result code. Auditees are permitted to generate events only with statuses which appear in the STATUSES list. AUDIT_LEVEL identifies the level that the event is found in. \u201cSUPPORTED_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d is an array that contains the ID (identification) numbers (e.g., 1, 2, 3 . . . 72, 73, 74) of the event details that may be provided for the event \u201c1000.\u201d \u201cMANDATORY_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d array contains a list of the event details (with IDs, e.g., 17) that must be provided whenever the event \u201c1000\u201d is generated.","An \u201cAUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d array can be used to define the details that may be associated with events, as shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0039"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"array name=\u201cAUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d type=\u201cArray\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c1\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>Error<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/arrayelement>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/array>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The above array defines an event detail with the ID number \u20181.\u2019 The name of the detail is \u201cError.\u201d The ID numbers in this array appear in the \u201cSUPPORTED_EVENT_DETAIL\u201d and\/or \u201cMANDATORY_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d arrays in the event object definition, i.e. in the \u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d array.","A memory  is associated with the auditor . In one embodiment, the memory  is an auditing database. For the auditee \u2018A\u2019  to perform the events -, the auditee \u2018A\u2019  first connects to the auditor  and is registered with the auditor . The auditee \u2018A\u2019  provides its digitally signed event definition, i.e., event metadata, to the auditor . Specifically, during registration with the auditor, the auditee sends the digitally signed file with its supported events metadata to the auditor. The digitally signed event metadata describes which events the auditee \u2018A\u2019  can generate and what is the structure of those events. The auditor  then validates the digital signature of the auditee \u2018A\u2019  and confirms the identity of the auditee \u2018A\u2019 . If the digital signature is validated, the metadata of the events - is stored in the auditor . The auditee \u2018A\u2019  can then generate the events -. When any of the events - are triggered, the auditee \u2018A\u2019  generates a record to ensure that it matches approved metadata and, if the event is valid, the auditee stores the record in a local temporary file. If the event is invalid, the event is discarded to ensure consistency of events in the database. Similarly, for the auditee \u2018B\u2019  to perform the events -, the auditee \u2018B\u2019  first connects to the auditor  and is registered with the auditor . The auditee \u2018B\u2019  provides its digitally signed event metadata to the auditor . The digitally signed event metadata describes which events the auditee \u2018B\u2019  can generate and what is the structure of those events. The auditor  validates the digital signature of the auditee \u2018B\u2019 . The metadata of the events - is stored in the auditing database  after validating the digital signature. When any of the events - are triggered, the auditee \u2018B\u2019  generates a record and stores in a local temporary file. The auditor  communicates with the auditee \u2018A\u2019  and auditee \u2018B\u2019  to request copies of records from their local temporary files. The auditor  receives the records of the events and writes them to the auditing database  after validation against digitally signed event metadata (which was provided when the auditee \u2018B\u2019  first registered). A user interface component  is provided to configure the auditing framework  and to display the authorized events. The user interface component  is explained in reference to .","Referring to , the event auditing framework  can be expanded to include new events, for example, events -. There is no need to wait for a new version of the framework to include new events. A new auditee \u201cAuditee C\u201d  can be created to perform the events -. The events - are defined in the auditee \u2018C\u2019 . The auditee \u2018C\u2019  also includes a digitally signed file (e.g., a DFO file) that includes metadata of the events -, i.e., details of the events -. The auditee \u2018C\u2019  can be shipped and registered with the auditor . The auditor  checks the digital signature of the auditee \u2018C\u2019 . If the digital signature is valid, the metadata of the events - are stored in the auditing database . The auditee \u2018C\u2019  can then generate auditing events -. The auditor  will validate received events to ensure that they are permitted for the auditee \u2018C\u2019  and that the events match the declared event structure. If the events are permitted for the auditee, then they are written to the auditing database . Invalid events are discarded and not written to the auditing database .","After expanding the framework , each auditee performs only events that are authorized for that auditee. For example, events - are performed by the auditee \u2018A\u2019 , events - are performed by the auditee \u2018B\u2019 , and events - can be performed by the auditee \u2018C\u2019 . Also, event details for each event are defined in the \u201cAUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d array and mandatory event details are defined in the \u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d array. When an auditee fires an event, the auditing database  is checked to determine whether that event is authorized for that auditee. The auditing database  is also checked to determine whether mandatory event details are provided by an auditee. If an event is not authorized for that auditee or mandatory event details for that event are not provided, then that event is rejected and is not allowed to be entered in the auditing database . In one embodiment, an administrator can be informed that a particular auditee attempted to fire unauthorized events. In one embodiment, if an auditee server declares unauthorized or unapproved events, then the auditor rejects the events by writing an error in event log and not starting that auditee server.","The framework thus ensures that only authorized events for an auditee that includes the mandatory details are entered in the auditing database . This ensures consistency of event data in the auditing database . Reporting and interpretation of event data can be made easy and efficient by ensuring consistency. A reporting application can be associated with the auditing database  to provide analysis of the event data stored in the auditing database .","Referring to , in one embodiment of the event auditing framework , a new auditee can be an update of an existing auditee. New events can be added for an existing auditee by providing an updated auditee with a newer version of a file containing the new events. In the updated auditee, some events of the existing auditee can be removed or some event details may be modified. For example, auditee \u2018A\u2019 ( in ) is authorized to perform events -. An update of the auditee \u2018A\u2019  can be provided to replace the event \u2018\u2019 with a new event \u2018.\u2019 In the updated auditee \u2018A\u2019 , event details of one or more events (e.g., events , , and ) can also be modified. For example, new event details can be provided for the event \u2018\u2019 or mandatory event details can be removed or added. The updated auditee \u2018A\u2019  is then registered with the auditor . The metadata of the updated auditee \u2018A\u2019  is updated in the auditing database . The updated auditee \u2018A\u2019  can then perform the events , , , and .","Several workflows can be used to implement the above described framework. The following is an example of a workflow for adding a new event to an auditee. An auditee product owner sends request to a central authority who is responsible for maintaining consistency of auditing events. The request can include details about what changes should be made to an auditee. For example, a new event \u201cLOOK\u201d with the event details \u201cSIZE\u201d and \u201cDOCUMENT TYPE\u201d can be requested. The central authority reviews the request and determines that a similar event \u201cVIEW\u201d already exists and therefore no new event is required. The central authority notifies auditee product owner about this. The Auditee product owner adds \u201cVIEW\u201d event to a file (e.g., DFO\/DFT file) that include a list of events supported by the auditee. The file is sent to the central authority. The central authority reviews the file to ensure that it is consistent and correct. The file is electronically signed and sent back to the auditee product owner. The auditee product owner includes the file with their product. The file is shipped with the auditee and is automatically provided to an auditor when the auditee connects to that auditor for the first time.","The following is another example of a workflow for adding a new event to an auditee. Auditee product owner sends request to a central authority including details about what changes are required. For example, a new event \u201cREFRESH\u201d with the event details \u201cSIZE\u201d and \u201cDOCUMENT TYPE\u201d can be requested. The central authority reviews the request and determines that this new event is required and that name and event details do match consistency requirements. The auditee product owner is notified about this. Auditee product owner adds \u201cREFRESH\u201d event to the DFO file. The auditee product owner also includes all supported event details and mandatory event details. The files are sent to the central authority for signoff. The central authority reviews the files to ensure that they are consistent. The files are electronically signed and sent back to the auditee product owner. The auditee product owner can then use the files to expand the existing auditing subsystem of a BI system to include the new event \u201cREFRESH.\u201d","The following is an example of workflow for allowing an auditee to fire an existing event. Auditee product owner sends request to a central authority describing required changes. For example, an auditee \u2018A\u2019 shall be capable to fire an existing event \u201cREFRESH.\u201d The central authority reviews the request and determines to allow the auditee \u2018A\u2019 to fire REFRESH event. The auditee product owner is notified about approval. The auditee product owner adds \u201cREFRESH\u201d event to the DFO file. The file is sent to the central authority for signoff. The central authority reviews the files to ensure consistency and correctness. The files are electronically signed and sent back to the auditee product owner. The auditee product owner can then ship this file with their auditee (or update an existing auditee with this new version of file). The REFRESH event is an \u201cexisting\u201d event because there are other auditees already using it. The REFRESH event is a new event for the auditee \u2018A\u2019, but not new for the auditor. Therefore, the above process is used to add capability to the auditee \u2018A\u2019 to fire the REFRESH event.","Referring to , a user interface component  is provided to configure the auditing system and to display the authorized events. The user interface layout  can include a status section , set events section , set event details section , and a configuration section . Status summary and any warnings are displayed in the status section . Authorized events are shown in the set events section . Event details are displayed in the set event details section . The authorized events and event details are displayed after validation of digital signatures. Configuration properties are displayed in the configuration section .","Events that are not selected will not be generated. Only selected events will be allowed to be generated. In one embodiment, events can also be grouped into levels that are used to select which events the framework will generate. A data structure can be defined in such a way that the events, the event details, and the levels can be extended even after the release of the framework. An \u201cAUDIT_LEVELS\u201d array is used to describe levels that events are active in. The levels are used to help configure the auditing system. For example, there can be a \u201cDefault\u201d level  that contains events that are to be performed when the auditing level is set to default. There can be an \u201cOff\u201d level  that will not contain any auditing events. When the \u201cOff\u201d level  is selected, none of the authorized events are performed. There can be a \u201cCustom\u201d level  with an ID number \u2018zero.\u2019 The \u201cCustom\u201d level  can be used to specify exactly what events are to be enabled. A configuring user can then select any of the events and event details. In the user interface , the events \u201cView\u201d , \u201cLogon\u201d , and \u201cDrilled out of scope\u201d  and the event detail \u201cRights Details\u201d  are selected.","An example of \u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d array is presented below in XML.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<array name=\u201cAUDIT_LEVELS\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement index=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>0<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>Custom<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement index=\u201c2\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>Off<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement index=\u201c3\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>2<\/property>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"type=\u201cString\u201d>Minimal<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/arrayelement>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/array>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The above array defines three levels. A \u201cCustom\u201d level is defined using the ID number \u20180.\u2019 The \u201cOff\u201d level is defined using the ID number \u201c1.\u201d The ID number \u201c2\u201d corresponds to \u201cMinimal\u201d level. Similarly, IDs are used to define various other levels such as \u201cDefault\u201d level and \u201cComplete\u201d level. Definition of each auditing level includes declaration of all auditing events belonging to it. For example, referring to \u201cAUDIT_EVENTS\u201d array that is previously presented, level IDs appear in the \u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d property of the event definition.","The repository object that contains the events' definitions also contains the properties that define the current state of the auditing system, as shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<property name=\u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>3<\/property>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<array name=\u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1001<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c2\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1002<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c15\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>10004<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>15<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/array>"]},{"entry":[{},"<array name=\u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>1<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c2\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>2<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"<arrayelement name=\u201c15\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>21<\/arrayelement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>15<\/property>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/array>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The \u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d property contains the level number that controls which events will be performed. The \u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS\u201d contains a list of the event IDs that are enabled in the current level. The auditing system will perform the events in this list. If the \u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d is set to zero (the custom level), then the \u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS\u201d list will contain the events selected by the user. If the \u201cAUDIT_LEVEL\u201d is set to any other level, then the \u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS\u201d list will include events that are defined in the XML file for this level. The \u201cENABLED_AUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d is used to turn off event details that are time consuming to calculate. The auditing framework generates that event detail if an event detail is in this list. As with the new events and new event details, new auditing levels can be added even after the framework is released. The process is similar to the process used for new events, i.e. by creating a new auditee or an update of an existing auditee with a file (e.g., DFO) defining a new level and registering that auditee with the auditor. The new level will then appear in the user interface component.","Auditing events can also be divided into different categories. For example, audit events can be categorized into core or common events  that can be generated by any auditee, platform events  that can be generated by specific platform components (e.g., BI platform), and WebIntelligence (WebI) specific events  that can be generated only by WebI auditees. An example of an auditing event category \u201cPlatform events\u201d  having an ID  is shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<propertybag name=\u201cSI_AUDIT_CATEGORIES\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"version=\u201c3\u201d>"},{"entry":"<propertybag name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d payload=\u201ctrue\u201d>"},{"entry":"<property name=\u201cSI_ID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"key=\u201ctrue\u201d>5<\/property>"},{"entry":"<property name=\u201cSI_DESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d>"},{"entry":"Platform events"},{"entry":"<\/property>"},{"entry":"<propertybag name=\u201cSI_ML_DESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d>"},{"entry":"<property name=\u201cEN\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d> Platform events"},{"entry":"<\/property>"},{"entry":"<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"<property name=\u201cSI_TOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d flags=\u201c0\u201d>1<\/property>"},{"entry":"<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Similarly, each category has an ID. The IDs of the categories appear in the AUDIT_CATEGORY property of the event definition, i.e. the AUDIT_EVENTS array that is described previously. Each event belongs to only one category.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","704","700","702","706","708","710","712","704","702","702","710","708"]},"In one embodiment, in order to support configuration of the framework, events and events details can be grouped. Pseudo details and groups can be defined as below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003<array name=\u201cAUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<propertybag name=\u201c28\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>29<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cIS_SETTABLE\u201d type=\u201cBool\u201d>false<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>Property"},{"entry":"Value<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<propertybag name=\u201c33\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>39<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cIS_SETTABLE\u201d type=\u201cBool\u201d>false<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>Property"},{"entry":"Color<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/propertybag>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<arrayelement name=\u201c63\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cID\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>80<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cIS_SETTABLE\u201d type=\u201cBool\u201d>true<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cDESCRIPTION\u201d type=\u201cString\u201d>Property Value"},{"entry":"Details<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<array name=\u201cMEMBERS\u201d type=\u201cBag\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<arrayelement name=\u201c1\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>29<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<arrayelement name=\u201c2\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>39<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cTOTAL\u201d type=\u201cLong\u201d>2<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/arrayelement>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The above example of an array defines a detail called \u201cProperty Value\u201d with ID number 29. The \u201cIS_SETTABLE\u201d property is set to \u201cFalse\u201d to indicate the user interface should not show the detail. A detail group called \u201cProperty Value Details\u201d with ID number 80 is also defined. The \u201cIS_SETTABLE\u201d property is set to \u201cTrue\u201d to indicate that the user interface should allow the detail to be settable. Settable means that the \u201cDISABLED_AUDIT_DETAILS\u201d property may be updated. When a group is enabled or disabled, the state is updated as if the value in MEMBERS were updated. For example, when a user enables \u201cProperty Value Details\u201d event detail, \u201cProperty Details\u201d and \u201cProperty Color\u201d event details are enabled. Similarly, \u201cProperty Details\u201d and \u201cProperty Color\u201d event details are disabled when \u201cProperty Value Details\u201d event detail is disabled.","When a new auditee registers with the auditor, it provides a digitally signed file with events definition. If the digital signature is correct then the auditor will add new or updated definitions of events, event details, event levels, and categories to the auditing database from the file. This file contains a digital signature for the values of the AUDIT_EVENTS, AUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS, AUDIT_LEVELS, and AUDIT_CATEGORY arrays. If the digital signature is not correct, then the update will not be loaded.","An auditor will receive events from auditees and validates the received events based on the metadata stored in the auditing database after verification of digital signature. The auditor validates the structure of a received event as specified in the corresponding metadata stored in the auditing database. In one embodiment, an auditing configuration object in the auditing database can be used to validate the events. If the received event does not appear in the AUDIT_EVENTS list then that event will be rejected. If the received event contains details that are not in the SUPPORTED_EVENT_DETAILS array then the event will be rejected. If the received event does not include details as provided in the MANDATORY_EVENT_DETAIL array it will be rejected. If an event and its details appear in a respective array, the event will be accepted as a valid event and saved in the audit log. The auditees will query the auditing database for the auditing configuration object. The auditee checks the ENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS array to determine which events are generated. Because the configuration object is retrieved from the auditing database and not hard-coded in the source, the auditing framework is extensible. Also, it can be noted that events are authorized per auditee. If event  is authorized for auditee \u2018A\u2019 and not for auditee \u2018B\u2019, only auditee \u2018A\u2019 can generate event  and auditee \u2018B\u2019 is not permitted to generate event .","The user interface component will also query for the auditing configuration object. All events that are in the AUDIT_EVENTS array will be settable in the user interface unless the IS_SETTABLE property is false. The AUDIT_LEVEL property can be used to determine which events are currently enabled. The user interface can update the ENABLED_AUDIT_EVENTS property in the auditing configuration object to change which events are enabled. The user interface will have similar behavior for the ENABLED_AUDIT_EVENT_DETAILS property.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["802","804","806"]},"Some embodiments of the invention may include the above-described methods being written as one or more software components. These components, and the functionality associated with each, may be used by client, server, distributed, or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as, functional, declarative, procedural, object-oriented, lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively, the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further, these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example, a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level (e.g., a graphical user interface). These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server-client, peer-to-peer, or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices, to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.","The above-illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term \u201ccomputer readable storage medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer readable storage medium\u201d should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store, encode, or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described, represented, or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include, but are not limited to: magnetic media, such as hard disks, floppy disks, and magnetic tape; optical media such as CD-ROMs, DVDs and holographic devices; magneto-optical media; and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute, such as application-specific integrated circuits (\u201cASICs\u201d), programmable logic devices (\u201cPLDs\u201d) and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code, such as produced by a compiler, and files containing higher-level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example, an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java, C++, or other object-oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard-wired circuitry in place of, or in combination with machine readable software instructions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","905","955","900","940","955","910","915","910","915","905","915","900","925","930","900","925","930","900","935","900","950","950","900","945","900","920","960","960","960","950","960"]},"A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases, such as, relational, transactional, hierarchical, multi-dimensional (e.g., OLAP), object oriented databases, and the like. Further data sources include tabular data (e.g., spreadsheets, delimited text files), data tagged with a markup language (e.g., XML data), transactional data, unstructured data (e.g., text files, screen scrapings), hierarchical data (e.g., data in a file system, XML data), files, a plurality of reports, and any other data source accessible through an established protocol, such as, Open DataBase Connectivity (ODBC), produced by an underlying software system (e.g., ERP system), and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams, broadcast data, and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations, semantic layers, management systems, security systems and so on.","In the above description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods, components, techniques, etc. In other instances, well-known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps, it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps, as some steps may occur in different orders, some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition, not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover, it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.","The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention, including what is described in the Abstract, is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather, the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims, which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The claims set forth the embodiments of the invention with particularity. The invention is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. The embodiments of the invention, together with its advantages, may be best understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
