---
title: Exchanging presence information in a communications network
abstract: The disclosure relates to decentralized presence management within a communications system performed at a user device. An embodiment of the disclosure comprises selectively updating at least one frequency at which the user device transmits presence update messages to one or more other user devices that belong to a contact group associated with the user device. The embodiment further comprises transmitting one or more presence update messages in accordance with the selectively updated frequency. Another embodiment of the disclosure comprises obtaining a subset of contacts of a subscriber operating the user device that form a presence update group. The embodiment further comprises identifying a plurality of sub-groups within the presence update group based on priorities of the subset of contacts. The embodiment further comprises transmitting one or more presence update messages to less than all of the identified plurality of sub-groups.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09036545&OS=09036545&RS=09036545
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09036545
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e)","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/421,032, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CLIENT-SIDE DISTRIBUTED AND DYNAMICALLY UPDATED NETWORK PRESENCE,\u201d filed Dec. 8, 2010, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.","The disclosed embodiments pertain to networking and, in particular, to management of presence in relation to a network.","Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations, including a first-generation analog wireless phone service (1G), a second-generation (2G) digital wireless phone service (including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks) and a third-generation (3G) high speed data\/Internet-capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use, including Cellular and Personal Communications Service (PCS) systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS), and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Orthogonal FDMA (OFDMA), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), the Global System for Mobile access (GSM) variation of TDMA, and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.","The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association\/Electronic Industries Association in TIA\/EIA\/IS-95-A entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d referred to herein as IS-95. Combined AMPS & CDMA systems are described in TIA\/EIA Standard IS-98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT-2000\/UM, or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000\/Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA (W-CDMA), CDMA2000 (such as CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standards, for example) or TD-SCDMA.","In W-CDMA wireless communication systems, user equipments (UEs) receive signals from fixed position Node Bs (also referred to as cell sites or cells) that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network (AN)\/radio access network (RAN), which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Therefore, the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol (IP) network data packets.","In conventional wireless communication systems, the user devices may store address books that list particular persons and businesses, and their respective telephone numbers and e-mail addresses. A user may initiate a communication with a party listed in the address book by entering appropriate commands, for example through the device's user interface. Only if the called party answers the call does the device user know that the calling party is available and willing to partake in a discussion. If the called party does not answer the call, the user of the device may have wasted time initiating the call. This process repeats if the user of the device wishes to make a second attempt, this time using alternate means, for example sending a text message to the same telephone number, or using another telephone number from the address book, or sending an e-mail message.","The above examples are for initiating communication with one called party. Additional activities are required for initiating a group communication through the user device connected to a wireless system. For example, a user may first provide a conference call vendor service with a list of invitees, and the vendor service may then send an e-mail invitation to each. Even if the user requests acceptance prior to a deadline earlier than the scheduled time of the conference call, the user will not know for certain who will in fact attend until the conference call begins. In addition, if the user determines from the acceptance count that the number of attendees will be too small, or that certain key persons will not attend, then the user must reschedule, and have another set of invitations sent.","The disclosure relates to decentralized presence management within a communications system performed at a user device. An embodiment of the disclosure comprises selectively updating at least one frequency at which the user device transmits presence update messages to one or more other user devices that belong to a contact group associated with the user device. The embodiment further comprises transmitting one or more presence update messages in accordance with the selectively updated frequency.","Another embodiment of the disclosure comprises obtaining a subset of contacts of a subscriber operating the user device that form a presence update group. The embodiment further comprises identifying a plurality of sub-groups within the presence update group based on priorities of the subset of contacts. The embodiment further comprises transmitting one or more presence update messages to less than all of the identified plurality of sub-groups.","Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise, the term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","Further, many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the embodiments described herein, the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action (described in more detail below with respect to ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","120","102","126","102","108","110","112","102","108","110","112"]},"Referring back to , the components of the wireless communications system  and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System  is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs, such as wireless client computing devices , , ,  to communicate over-the-air between and among each other and\/or between and among components connected via the air interface  and RAN , including, without limitation, core network , the Internet, PSTN, SGSN, GGSN and\/or other remote servers.","The RAN  controls messages (typically sent as data packets) sent to a RNC . The RNC  is responsible for signaling, establishing, and tearing down bearer channels (i.e., data channels) between a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN) and the UEs \/\/\/. If link layer encryption is enabled, the RNC  also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC  is well-known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network  may communicate with the RNC  by a network, the Internet and\/or a public switched telephone network (PSTN). Alternatively, the RNC  may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically, the network or Internet connection between the core network  and the RNC  transfers data, and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC  can be connected to multiple NodeBs . In a similar manner to the core network , the RNC  is typically connected to the NodeBs  by a network, the Internet and\/or PSTN for data transfer and\/or voice information. The NodeBs  can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs, such as cellular telephone . The NodeBs , RNC  and other components may form the RAN , as is known in the art. However, alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example, in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC  and one or more of the NodeBs  may be collapsed into a single \u201chybrid\u201d module having the functionality of both the RNC  and the NodeB(s) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["126","126","160","165","175","175"]},"Generally, GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) phones for transmitting Internet Protocol (IP) packets. The GPRS Core Network (e.g., the GGSN  and one or more SGSNs ) is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W-CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network, provides mobility management, session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W-CDMA networks.","The GPRS Tunneling Protocol (GTP) is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users (e.g., access terminals) of a GSM or W-CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber's data from the subscriber's current SSGN  to the GGSN , which is handling the subscriber's session.","Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network; namely, (i) GTP-U, (ii) GTP-C and (iii) GTP\u2032 (GTP Prime). GTP-U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol (PDP) context. GTP-C is used for control signaling (e.g., setup and deletion of PDP contexts, verification of GSN reach-ability, updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another, etc.). GTP\u2032 is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.","Referring to , the GGSN  acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network (not shown) and the external packet data network . The GGSN  extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol (PDP) format (e.g., IP or PPP) from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN , and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction, the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN  to the SGSN  which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer (RAB) of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby, the GGSN  stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his\/her profile in its location register (e.g., within a PDP context). The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.","The SGSN  is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network , in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN  includes packet routing and transfer, mobility management (e.g., attach\/detach and location management), logical link management, and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information (e.g., current cell, current VLR) and user profiles (e.g., IMSI, PDP address(es) used in the packet data network) of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN , for example, within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus, SGSNs are responsible for (i) de-tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN , (ii) uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN , (iii) carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and (iv) billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, aside from (i)-(iv), SGSNs configured for GSM\/EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W-CDMA networks.","The RAN  (e.g., or UTRAN, in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) system architecture) communicates with the SGSN  via an Iu interface, with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN  communicates with the GGSN  via a Gn interface, which is an IP-based interface between SGSN  and other SGSNs (not shown) and internal GGSNs, and uses the GTP protocol defined above (e.g., GTP-U, GTP-C, GTP\u2032, etc.). While not shown in , the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System (DNS). The GGSN  is connected to a Public Data Network (PDN) (not shown), and in turn to the Internet , via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) gateway.","The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN  and the GGSN  which contains a particular UE's communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session, the UE must first attach to the SGSN  and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN  that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN  serving the UE's access point.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["100","1","120","1","3","120","162","162","188","175","182","184","186","170","2","5","120","164","162","164","188","175","182","184","186","170","4","175","175"]},"Referring to , UEs ,  and  . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell-phones, UE  is illustrated as a wireless tablet-PC and UE  is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However, in other embodiments, it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system  can connect to any type of UE, and the examples illustrated in  are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also, while the AAA , the provisioning server , the IMS\/SIP registration server  and the application server  are each illustrated as structurally separate servers, one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.","Further, referring to , the application server  is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes (MCCs)  . . . N B, and a plurality of regional dispatchers  . . . N A. Collectively, the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server , which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions (e.g., half-duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and\/or IP multicasting protocols) within the wireless communication system . For example, because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server  can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system , multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions (e.g., so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back-and-forth between session participants located in China).","For reasons as described above, when reference is made to the application server , it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and\/or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session (e.g., handling signaling messages between the UEs, scheduling and\/or sending announce messages, etc.), whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance, including conducting an in-call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.","Referring to , a UE , (here a wireless device), such as a cellular telephone, has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from the RAN  that may ultimately come from the core network , the Internet and\/or other remote servers and networks. The platform  can include a transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) , or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. The ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (API)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory  of the wireless device. The memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform  also can include a local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. The internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","Accordingly, an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, ASIC , memory , API  and local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of the UE  in  are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.","The wireless communication between the UE  or  and the RAN  can be based on different technologies, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example, in W-CDMA, the data communication is typically between the client device , Node B(s) , and the RNC . The RNC  can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network , PSTN, the Internet, a virtual private network, a SGSN, a GGSN and the like, thus allowing the UE  or  access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art, voice transmission and\/or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly, the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.","Below, embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W-CDMA protocols and associated terminology (e.g., such as UE instead of mobile station (MS), mobile unit (MU), access terminal (AT), etc., RNC, contrasted with BSC in EV-DO, or Node B, contrasted with BS or MPT\/BS in EV-DO, etc.). However, it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W-CDMA.","In one example according to one embodiment, a subscriber social communication system may have a plurality of subscribers, and each subscriber may have a definable set of privileges to access, participate in and conduct various kinds of communications within the subscriber system. Subscriber user devices may be any of the previously described types and kinds of the user devices, e.g., cellular telephones, PDAs, and net books.","It will be understood that a \u201cuser device\u201d may not necessarily be a hardware unit that is unique to a particular subscriber. As one illustration, it is contemplated that a subscriber may be provided with a portable authorization\/verification mechanism permitting the subscriber to temporarily configure a user-accessible device to have that subscriber's usual social network configurations and settings, including public profile (with respect to the social network) authorizations, internal priority settings, privacy settings, and other interface with other subscribers, each of which will be described in greater detail at later sections.","According to one or more embodiments, a subscriber's user device establishes and dynamically updates a list or other local database indicating other subscribers with which that subscriber is communicating, or has communicated, and indicating the current status of each in relation to the network. Criteria and rules for sorting the list, adding, maintaining and removing other subscribers from the list, include the user device's currently stored characterization of other subscribers' presence, recency of communication with such other subscribers, alphabetical order as well as other criteria and rules that will be described in greater detail later.","For brevity, this list or database of subscribers meeting these criteria, which may be maintained locally by each subscriber's user device(s), will be termed a \u201cPresence Update Group.\u201d It will be understood that the phrase \u201cPresence Update Group\u201d is an arbitrary name used for purposes of reference within this disclosure, and that the phrase is not intended to have, or convey any meaning as to any particular method, act, graphical form, arrangement, order of carrying out acts, or structure(s). Accordingly, as used herein, the Presence Update Group includes a set of contacts for a particular subscriber to which that subscriber directs presence status updates (e.g., notifying the Presence Update Group when the subscriber is busy, available, etc.) and also for which the subscriber receives presence status updates (e.g., indicating whether the contact(s) are busy, available, etc.). It will be appreciated that the subscriber can include one or more additional contacts that are not part of the Presence Update Group, such that the Presence Update Group can correspond to a subset of the subscriber's contacts in certain implementations.","In one aspect, entries or records in the Presence Update Group identifying another subscriber's user device characterize that subscriber's participation and availability, or presence, with respect to a network that may be shared, in whole or in part, among such subscribers. The state of the presence is defined by various parameters that, collectively, may be represented by a \u201cpresence value\u201d or \u201cPV.\u201d","According to one embodiment, a given subscriber's user device may be configured to update its Presence Update Group to maintain in its Presence Update Group only such other subscribers that the instant subscriber's user device is likely, in a near term, to have communication. Among other benefits, this feature provides a reduction in unnecessary processing and storage in the user devices, and further provides for reduction in unnecessary messaging overhead due to the user devices updating their Presence Update Group to reflect status changes of irrelevant user devices. In this manner, the Presence Update Group may correspond to a reduced list or subset of contacts from the given subscriber's contact book.","In one aspect, a given subscriber's user device may estimate a likelihood of future communication with a contact based on current participation in a communication between the given subscriber's user device and the contact and, to a lesser extent, recent participation in a communication between the given subscriber's user device and the contact. In a further aspect, the user device may maintain a PV for subscriber groups with which the subscriber is in current communication, or groups with which the subscriber has recently participated\u2014with \u201cgroups\u201d being described in greater detail at later sections. In an example, each subscriber group may correspond to a sub-group of the Presence Update Group.","According to one embodiment, a given subscriber's user device, in maintaining its own Presence Update Group, can interact with other user devices in a manner further providing a distributed, dynamic updating of the local Presence Update Group. In one aspect, the given subscriber's user device may be configured to dictate when to transmit, to other subscribers' user devices, requests for updated information characterizing the other user devices' presence in the network. For brevity, these requests will be referred to hereinafter as \u201cPV update requests.\u201d The sending user device uses the responses in updating (including removing) entries from its Presence Update Group. As will be described in greater detail, in one aspect the user devices may be configured to dictate the timing of sending the PV update requests in a manner to meet efficiency objectives regarding messaging overhead and frequency of updating the Presence Update Group.","In a further aspect, the given subscriber's user devices may send PV update requests for entries in their Presence Update Group based on the length of time since the user device last received a PV update from that particular other subscriber. Further to this aspect, the given subscriber's user device may be configured to establish and maintain a timeout counter for each of the subscribers in its Presence Update Group. Another example criteria may be user-selectable priorities, or application-specific priorities, e.g., whether or not the communications with the other subscriber in the Presence Update Group are pursuant to interactive real-time activities.","In one aspect of a dynamic updating by the given subscriber's user device of its local Presence Update Group, the given subscriber's user device may be configured to detect and utilize one or more triggering events in determining when to send PV update requests. As one illustration, a triggering event may be an initial switch-on, or power-up of the given subscriber's user device, from a previous power-down state. Other triggering events may be the given subscriber unlocking his\/her user device (e.g., entering an alphanumeric unlock code), or the given subscriber initiating, e.g., via a touch-screen icon on the user device, an application to perform social networking.","In one additional aspect, the given subscriber's user device may be configured to cease updating its Presence Update Group when that user device is locked, to conserve battery power and\/or to reduce unnecessary message traffic on the network. This aspect may couple with the above-described example triggering event of sending a PV update request upon unlocking the user device. It will be understood that the given subscriber's user device according to this aspect may be configured to distinguish between different modes of user device lock in determining whether to cease updating the Presence Update Group. For example, a user device may have one lock mode for preventing unauthorized persons from using the device, and another lock mode for preventing inadvertent key pressing, e.g., as may occur when placed in a user's pocket. The latter lock mode may be called an \u201cinadvertent key disabling lock mode.\u201d Further to this aspect, the subscriber may wish to maintain Presence Update Group updating while the user device is in the inadvertent key disabling lock mode.","Additionally, the given subscriber's user device may be configured to cease updating its Presence Update Group, the visual representation of its Presence Update Group, or both, when it is likely that the subscriber is not looking at the device's display, e.g. when the subscriber has put it down or is on a call and is holding it at his or her ear. The user device may cease updating its Presence Update Group as soon as it senses that it has been put down (e.g. has become motionless or any movement is less than a threshold) or that the subscriber is on a call, or after a threshold period of time has elapsed. The user device may also use other information in conjunction with sensing that it has been put down. For example, if it is late at night and the user device determines that it has been motionless for an hour, for example, the device may assume that the subscriber is sleeping and cease updating its Presence Update Group. The user device can sense that the subscriber has put it down by leveraging the user device's gyroscope and accelerometer, as would be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.","In another aspect, similar in part to the above aspect, a user device may be configured to reduce its frequency of, or to cease sending PV update requests when the given subscriber's user device is executing an application that is likely to continue execution for an extended (e.g., a relatively long or non-transient period) duration, e.g., a media player or game.","In another aspect, the given subscriber's user device may include its own updated PV in one or more of its PV update requests issued to the Presence Update Group. For example, each time a target subscriber's user device receives a PV update request from a sending user device, the target user device is able to update its Presence Update Group to reflect the sending user device's updated PV. As will be appreciated, this feature may reduce the aggregate traffic resulting from the subscribers' respective user devices continuously updating their Presence Update Group.","As will be appreciated by persons of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, the above-described and other features of the exemplary embodiments provide, among other benefits, a distributed monitoring that reduces the need for centralized server-based control and, further, provides a stable, self-adaptive social networking system that can handle increased, and varying subscriber loads, without server-related bottlenecks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},"Referring to , the given subscriber's user device (\u201cUE \u201d) determines presence information associated with UE  (e.g., UE  is busy, UE  is available), A. The presence information (e.g., PV) determined at A can be relative to a particular multimedia application client, such that the presence information determined at A is indicative of the given subscriber's presence or availability to participate in communication sessions associated with the multimedia application client (e.g., VoIP communication sessions, PTT communication sessions, etc.). In this example, the target contacts in the Presence Update Group can correspond to contacts of the given subscriber that also use a version of the multimedia application client. In a further example, the presence information can be based on an operational state associated with the multimedia application client (e.g., the presence information can indicate whether the multimedia application client is executing in a foreground or prominent portion of the UE 's execution environment, whether the multimedia application client is executing in a background or non-prominent portion of the UE 's execution environment, etc.).","Referring to , UE  transmits presence updates messages to one or more contacts within its Presence Update Group in accordance with a first set of frequencies, A. In an example, the presence update messages transmitted at A can include (i) the determined presence information from A, (ii) requests for presence information feedback from corresponding target contacts to which the presence update messages are transmitted and\/or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii). In a further example, the Presence Update Group may be partitioned into one or more sub-groups, with each of the one or more sub-groups being populated with contacts having a given priority level or being within a given priority level range. A target presence update frequency can then be assigned to each sub-group, resulting in the first set of frequencies at which the presence update messages are transmitted in A. For example, a sub-group with high-priority contacts can be assigned a higher frequency as compared to a sub-group with low-priority contacts. In another example, the presence information determined at A can affect the first set of frequencies. For example, if the presence information determined at A indicates that the multicast application client is executing in a foreground or prominent portion of UE 's execution environment, the first set of frequencies can be set to a higher level (e.g., for one sub-group, for each sub-group, etc.). In another example, if the presence information determined at A indicates that the multicast application client is executing in a background or non-prominent portion of UE 's execution environment, the first set of frequencies can be set to a lower level (e.g., for one sub-group, for each sub-group, etc.).","In a further example, to reduce network traffic as noted above, the presence update messages can be configured to further request presence information from the targeted contacts or sub-groups. In the example of , assume that the Presence Update Group includes N sub-groups, where N\u22672, and that UE  transmits the presence update messages to each contact in each of the N sub-groups in A in accordance with the first set of frequencies (e.g., which can vary from sub-group to sub-group as noted above, based on the respective priorities of the sub-groups and\/or the contacts within the respective sub-groups, such that UE  can transmit presence update messages to sub-group  at a first frequency and UE  can transmit presence update messages to sub-group  at a second frequency, and so on). However, in other examples, UE  may transmit presence update messages to a single sub-group (e.g., N=1).","Referring to , each contact in each of sub-groups  . . . N receives at least one presence update message transmitted by UE  at A and provides presence update feedback to UE , A and A. For example, each contact in sub-groups  . . . N receives UE 's presence update message(s) in accordance with one of the first set of frequencies in A, and responds with its own presence update message that updates UE  with respect to the presence information (or PV) of the contact providing the feedback.","Referring to , at some later point in time, UE  determines whether to update the first set of frequencies, A. For example, in A, UE  may determine to update the first set of frequencies based on a number of the one or more other contacts (or user devices) to which the update will be sent. In this example, if the number of target contacts has increased above a threshold level, at least one of the first set of frequencies is reduced to maintain system traffic at a manageable level. In an alternative example, if the number of target contacts has decreased below a threshold level, at least one of the first set of frequencies is increased because fewer target contacts permits more presence update messages to be transmitted without increasing overall system traffic.","Referring to A of , in another example, UE  may determine to update the first set of frequencies based on an amount of time since a previous presence update message was received from one or more contacts belonging to sub-groups  . . . N. For example, UE  may determine to increase a given frequency from the first set of frequencies allocated to a given sub-group if the amount of time since a previous presence update message was received from the given sub-group is below a time threshold, and UE  may determine to decrease the given frequency if the amount of time since a previous presence update message was received from the given sub-group is above a time threshold.","Referring to A of , in another example, UE  may determine a set of priorities associated with sub-groups  . . . N (e.g., the priorities of the constituent UEs within the sub-groups, or a priority profile associated with the sub-groups themselves). The determined set of priorities is then used to determine whether to update the first set of frequencies. For example, if the set of priorities indicates that sub-group  is associated with a higher priority than sub-group  and the first set of frequencies allocates a higher frequency to sub-group  than sub-group , UE  may determine to update the first set of frequencies to produce a second set of frequencies that increases the frequency allocated to sub-group  and\/or decreases the frequency allocated to sub-group .","Referring to A of , in another example, UE  may determine to update the first set of priorities based in part upon whether UE  is locked. For example, UE  determines a type of lock (if any) applied to UE  and then determines whether to update the first set of frequencies based on the determined type of lock. This aspect is described below in more detail.","Referring to A of , in another example, UE  may determine a duration that UE  is expected to remain operating or executing a particular application on UE . If the determined duration is greater than a threshold duration, UE  may determine to update the first set of frequencies in A. In a specific example, UE  may determine to decrease one or more of the first set of frequencies based on the determination that UE  will be engaged with the application for more than the threshold duration.","Referring to A of , in another example, one or more user devices operated by one or more contacts of the subscriber may not wish to receive and\/or transmit presence update messages at the frequency UE  determined for them in step A. In that case, a contact's user device may transmit presence update feedback to UE  that includes a policy indicating that it wishes to receive and\/or send presence update messages only at a certain frequency, or no more frequently than a maximum rate. For example, UE  may determine in step A to send a particular contact's user device a presence update message, including a request for presence information, every ten minutes. That contact's user device, or that contact, however, may determine that it wants to receive and\/or send presence update messages to UE , or possibly to all of the contacts in its Presence Update Group, only once an hour. In that case, it would send a policy to UE  in response to receiving a presence update message from UE  indicating that rule. UE  would then update the frequency at which it transmits presence update messages to that contact's user device. In another example, UE  may determine in step A to send a particular contact or group of contacts a presence update message, including a request for presence information, every 5 minutes. One or more of those contact's user devices, or the contacts themselves, however, may determine that they want to receive and\/or send presence update messages to UE , or possibly to all of the contacts in its Presence Update Group, no more frequently than every 15 minutes (i.e. at a maximum rate of fifteen minutes). In that case, they would each send a policy to UE  in response to receiving a presence update message from UE  indicating that rule. UE  would then update the frequency at which it transmits presence update messages to that contacts' user devices.","Referring to , if UE  determines not to update the first set of frequencies in A, the process returns to A and UE  continues to send presence information to sub-groups  . . . N in accordance with the first set of frequencies in A. Otherwise, if UE  determines to update the first set of frequencies in A, UE  calculates a second set of frequencies and then transmits the presence update messages to sub-groups  . . . N in accordance with the second set of frequencies, A. While not shown explicitly in , the presence update messages transmitted at A can also include feedback requests to solicit presence update feedback as discussed above with respect to A, A, and A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},"Referring to , UE  determines presence information associated with UE  (e.g., UE  is busy, UE  is available), B. In an example, the determination of B is similar to the determination of A of  discussed above, and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. UE  also obtains a Presence Update Group in step B that includes a set of contacts of the given subscriber operating the user device for which the given subscriber is to exchange presence information, such as the presence information determined at B. For example, the Presence Update Group may comprise all of the given subscriber's contacts stored in a list of contacts on UE . Alternatively, the set of contacts in the Presence Update Group may correspond to a subset of contacts of the given subscriber (e.g., where the given subscriber's presence information is relative to a particular multimedia application client, the subset of contacts can include contacts that also use a version of the multimedia application client).","Referring to , the contacts in the Presence Update Group may be divided into one or more sub-groups, as discussed above with respect to , which are identified by UE  in B. The identification of the plurality of sub-groups at B can correspond to (i) an initial generation of the plurality of sub-groups, (ii) a modification or updating to a pre-existing set of sub-groups or (iii) a loading of the pre-existing set of sub-groups at UE  (e.g., from local memory or external memory). As discussed above, each of the one or more sub-groups corresponding to contacts having a given priority level or being within a given priority level range. Each sub-group contains one or more contacts, for example, exemplary Sub-Group  shown in  contains contacts associated with UEs  . . . N, where N\u22673 contact.","To generate the sub-groups, each of the contacts in the Presence Update Group is evaluated against a set of one or more criteria and assigned a priority based on the evaluation. For example, the criteria can include a user-assigned priority of the contact, a frequency at which the subscriber and\/or UE  communicates with the contact and\/or a given user device operated by the contact, an amount of time since the subscriber and\/or UE  previously communicated with the contact and\/or the user device operated by the contact, social relationship characteristics between the subscriber and the contact (e.g. work, family, friends, etc.), a likelihood that the subscriber will communicate with the contact within a threshold period of time, and\/or an amount of time since UE  previously received a presence update message from the user device operated by the contact. Once each contact in the Presence Update Group has been assigned a priority, the contacts are partitioned into sub-groups based on that priority. For example, if the criterion is social relationships, there may be a sub-group of family members, a sub-group of friends, a sub-group of work contacts, and so on. In another example, if the criterion is the amount of time since the subscriber last communicated with a contact, there may be a sub-group of contacts communicated with in the last day, a sub-group of contacts communicated with in the last week, a sub-group of contacts communicated within the last month, and so on.","Referring to B of , in an example, one or more user devices operated by one or more contacts of the subscriber may wish to receive and\/or transmit presence update messages at a particular frequency or no more frequently than a particular maximum rate, as discussed with reference to step A of . Knowing that, UE  may combine those contacts with the same preferred update frequency or maximum rate into the same sub-groups, then transmit presence update messages to them in compliance with their preferred frequency information.","Still referring to B of , it is appreciated that a particular contact can satisfy the criteria associated with more than one sub-group, referred to herein as a \u201cmulti-group contact.\u201d For example, the given subscriber may work with his\/her brother, which qualifies the brother to be a constituent of both family and co-worker sub-groups. In another example, the given subscriber may have just terminated a phone call with a given contact, which qualifies the given contact to be a constitute in a first sub-group for contacts contacted by the given subscriber within the last week and a second sub-group for contacts contacted by the given subscriber within the last 24 hours. In this case, UE  will attempt to assign the multi-group contact to a qualifying sub-group expected to be associated with a highest priority.","Continuing with B of , after the contacts have been divided into sub-groups, UE  determines a priority of each sub-group based on the priorities of their constituent contacts. In an example, the sub-groups can be populated with contacts in a particular priority range such that the priority of the sub-groups is already known and the determination of B merely determines which sub-groups include at least one contact. In another example, the priority determination of B can average the priorities of the constituent contacts of each sub-group to calculate the priority of the sub-group. In either case, a sub-group of higher priority contacts will generally have a higher priority than a sub-group of lower priority contacts. For example, a sub-group of family members may have a higher priority than a sub-group of co-workers (e.g., although these priorities may shift over time, with family members prioritized during the weekend and co-workers prioritized during normal work hours). In another example, a sub-group of contacts with whom the subscriber has communicated within the previous 24 hours may have a higher priority than contacts with whom the subscriber has communicated within the previous week.","Referring to B of , based on the sub-group priorities, a determination is made as to the frequency at which UE  will transmit presence update messages to the sub-groups, as discussed above with respect to  with respect to the first and second sets of frequencies. Each sub-group may, but is not required to, be transmitted presence update messages at a different frequency. For example, presence update messages may be transmitted to a sub-group of family members more frequently than to a sub-group of co-workers if the priority assigned to the sub-group of family members is higher than the priority assigned to the sub-group of coworkers.","Further, not all sub-groups must be transmitted a presence update message in accordance with an assigned frequency. For example, after obtaining the sub-group priorities, UE  can determine whether any sub-group priorities are below a given threshold and then exclude the associated sub-groups (if any) having a priority below a given threshold from a presence update frequency assignment. For example, a sub-group that was not assigned any contacts will not receive presence update messages. In another example, a sub-group that includes only low priority contacts will not receive presence update messages. In , Sub-Group  is provided as an example of a sub-group that does not receive presence update messages from UE .","Referring now to B of , UE  transmits at least one presence update message to each contact in each of Sub-Groups  and . While not shown explicitly in , the transmission(s) of B can be performed in accordance with each sub-group's respective frequency, as shown in . In an example, the presence update messages transmitted at B can include (i) the determined presence information from B, (ii) requests for presence information feedback from corresponding target contacts to which the presence update messages are transmitted and\/or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii). In the example embodiment shown in , each contact except UE  provide presence update feedback to UE  at B and B. This may occur if UE 's presence update messages only requested presence information feedback from the other contacts, and\/or if UE  either did not receive UE 's presence update message or chose not to respond to UE 's presence update message (e.g., a user of UE  has blocked presence update transmissions, etc.).","Referring to B of , a determination is made as to whether the priority of any contacts and\/or sub-groups have changed. If no priorities have changed, the process returns to B and UE  continues to transmit presence update messages to the previously determined sub-groups of contacts (i.e., Sub-Groups  and ) at the previously determined frequencies. If the priorities of any contacts and\/or sub-groups have changed, referring now to B, UE  re-calculates or updates the sub-group formations. For example, in B, UE  may transfer contacts between different sub-groups and\/or remove contacts from the Presence Update Group entirely.","In the example shown in , UE  did not respond to UE 's presence update message. As such, a priority level associated with UE  may be lowered, resulting in UE  being removed from Sub-Group  and also from the Presence Update Group. In another example, a contact with whom the subscriber has not communicated in a day may become a contact with whom the subscriber has not communicated in a week (e.g., a contact inactivity timer for a particular contact, such as UE , may have just passed the 24 hour mark, etc.), and thus that contact would be reassigned to the appropriate sub-group. In yet another example, a contact who is no longer a friend of the subscriber would be removed from the sub-group corresponding to friends of the subscriber (e.g., based on an assessment that the given subscriber has changed a social status of the contact from friend to non-friend), or a friend could become a family member through marriage. As noted above, a contact removed from a particular sub-group can either be removed from the Presence Update Group entirely (e.g., the previous friend who is no longer a friend is removed entirely) or simply transferred from one sub-group to another sub-group based on the respective change in priority of the contact (e.g., the friend who is now a family member can be moved to a higher-priority sub-group). In another aspect, if the priorities of enough contacts in a given sub-group change, the overall priority of that sub-group could change. For example, if the priority criterion is a threshold period of time elapsing without communication between the subscriber and the contacts in a given sub-group, for example a sub-group of co-workers, and that threshold is crossed because the subscriber is on vacation, the priority of those contacts and thus the sub-group could be reduced. UE  would send presence update messages at a lower frequency than it had been in response to the reduction in priority.","In another example, one or more user devices operated by one or more contacts of the subscriber may wish to receive and\/or transmit presence update messages at a particular frequency or no more frequently than a particular maximum rate, as discussed with reference to step A of . At some point, however, one or more of those contacts may change its preferred frequency and inform UE  of the change through presence update feedback. Such a change would constitute a priority change for purposes of step B and require UE  to re-identify the plurality of sub-groups within the Presence Update Group, as shown in step B.","Referring to B of , UE  transmits presence update messages to the updated sub-groups. As shown, UE  is not transmitted a presence update message. If at some point UE  receives a response from UE , UE  may reevaluate the priority assigned to UE , as discussed with reference to B. In other words, UE 's removal from the Presence Update Group need not be permanent.","Referring now to , further aspects of the one or more example embodiments of  and B will be described.  shows an example flow block diagram  of a network according to one or more embodiments.  illustrates a representative example of a hypothetical subscriber user named \u201cME\u201d having his\/her user device ME, interconnected with three other subscriber user devices, labeled A, D and F interconnected through a server (or distributed server resource)  via client-to-server links ME, A, D, and F. The user devices ME, A, D and F are referenced generically as , and the client-to-server links ME, A, D, and F are referenced generically as .","It will be understood that the client-to-server links  are not necessarily specific to the disclosed embodiments. As one illustrative example, the client-to-server links  may be a control channel within a wireless network protocol. This is only one example, and is not intended as any limitation on the scope of implementations. Further, it will be understood that each  \u201clink\u201d  is a functional aspect, and not necessarily a single link, or any particular physical link. Persons of ordinary skill in the art, upon reading this disclosure, will understand this and can readily select appropriate media and protocol(s) for implementing client-to-server links , or equivalents. Further detailed description of the links  is therefore omitted.","Continuing to refer to , various stages or steps of message transmission for one updating operation initiated by the user device ME are shown. It may be assumed that the described messages travel on the illustrated client-to-server link . However, it will be understood that one or more of the messages, e.g., the PV update request ME sent by the user device ME, may be communicated over alternate links (not shown in ).","In the  example , the PV update request ME sent by the user device ME (as depicted in A of  of ) includes the PV of that user device ME at the time PV update request ME is sent (as depicted in A of  of ). For purposes of example, the PV of the user device ME will be termed \u201cpv.\u201d Similarly, it will be assumed that \u201cpv,\u201d \u201cpv,\u201d and \u201cpv\u201d are the respective PV values sent by, and associated with, the user devices A, D and F, and that these PVs characterize the respective communication status of these user devices.","Still referring to , the PV update request ME identifies the subscriber \u201cME\u201d with a field value labeled \u201cMyIP.\u201d It may be assumed that MyIP includes an identifier unique to the subscriber ME and, for purposes of illustration, includes ME's IP address. It will be understood that for purposes of practicing embodiments as illustrated at  the IP address is not necessary. Likewise, the responses that the user devices A, D and F send after receiving the PV update request ME (e.g., such as A and A in  or B and B in ) are shown as having the sender's IP address and, also likewise, these IP addresses are not necessary for practicing embodiments as illustrated at .","The PV update request ME has, in addition to the previously described \u201cMyIP\u201d field and \u201cpv\u201d field characterizing subscriber ME's communication status, target addresses A, D and F. It may be assumed that the reason the targets are the user devices A, D and F is that the A, D and F subscribers are in the Presence Update Group maintained by the user device ME. For purposes of understanding the concepts depicted at , though, the specific reasons for ME sending PV update request ME to user devices A, D and F are irrelevant.","Continuing to refer to , the PV update request ME enters the server  and, in response, the server  transmits the PV update request as ME to the user device A, as ME to the user device D, and as ME to the user device F. The user device A responds to the PV update request message ME by sending response message ME (e.g., such as A and A in  or B and B in ), having the user device A's pv presence value, and the server  forwards this as PV response message ME to the user device ME. Similarly, the user device D responds to the PV update request communication ME by sending its pv presence value in the PV response message ME, which the server  forwards as PV response message ME to the user device ME (as depicted in A and A of  and B of ).","In the  example , the user device F is shown as not responding to the PV update request communication ME (e.g., as depicted by UE 's failure to respond to UE 's presence update message from B in ). This failure to respond may be caused, for example, by the user device F having low reception quality. In one aspect, the user device ME (and other user devices as well) has a mechanism for detecting this and subsequent failures to receive a response. For purposes of illustration, user devices  may set a timer when a PV update request is sent and, if the time expires, re-send the request. In one aspect, the user's devices may have a maximum number of retries and, if the number is exceeded, designate in the user device Presence Update Group that the target user device is UNAVAILABLE (as depicted in B of ). In the  example  the user device ME sends the resend PV update request as ME to the server , and the server  forwards to the user device F as PV update request communication ME. In this instance, the user device F does respond, with PV update response message ME, and the server  forwards this PV update response message ME as ME to the user device ME. The user device ME now has an updated Presence Update Group, reflecting the pv, pv and pv values it received from the user devices A, D and F.","In one aspect, the user devices  may include a mechanism to distinguish between received PV update requests and received responses to their own PV update requests, based on inspection of these messages. For example, the user devices  may apply a format to their PV update requests that is different from the format they apply to their responses to PV update requests received from other subscribers' user devices. In one aspect, the user devices  may be configured to include a bit field in both their PV update requests and their responses to PV update requests, and to set a bit value within that field as a flag differentiating between PV update requests and responses to PV update requests. For example, such a bit field may be a single bit width, and a flag scheme may assign a value of logical \u201c1\u201d for PV update requests and a logical \u201c0\u201d for responses to PV update requests. Referring to the  example to illustrate, one benefit of such forming of a PV update request to be distinguishable on its face from a response to a PV update request is that a user device such as ME, by simple inspection of a received message such as the PV response message ME sent by the user device A, will not interpret that response message ME as a PV update request sent by the user device A. It is conceivable, at least in this example, that such a misinterpretation could result in the user device ME sending a response to that PV response message ME back to the user device A. It is also conceivable that, at least in a hypothetical construction in which the user devices  have no other mechanism for distinguishing between PV update requests and responses to PV update requests, an unacceptable back-and-forth messaging could potentially result.","It will be understood that the above-described use of a flag is only one example of a mechanism to prevent, or otherwise obviate the possibility of, the user devices  responding to responses to their own PV update requests. Persons of ordinary skill in the arts pertaining to these embodiments will be able, upon reading this disclosure or practicing according to its embodiments, to identify various alternate means and methods.","As previously described, the user devices  may be configured to apply various different triggering events for sending PV update requests to target the user devices . One example trigger event may be a timeout, using as a reference a given maximum permitted time for the user device to maintain an entry in its Presence Update Group for another subscriber's user device, without the PV for that entry being updated (as depicted in B of ). In one aspect this may be a default timeout. In another aspect the user device may be configurable to apply different timeouts to different ones of the subscriber user devices in its Presence Update Group (as depicted in B of ). Further to this aspect, a user device may be configured to select the particular timeout it applies to each subscriber's user device in its Presence Update Group based on the type(s) of communication(s) the user device is currently having, or recently had, with that subscriber's user device.","As one illustration of a timeout based sending of PV update requests, assume the user device ME of the  example  is in communication, through his\/her user device ME with the user device A. It will therefore be assumed that the user device ME's Presence Update Group has an entry for the user device A. Assume that at time T the user device ME receives an update of the user device A's PV value. In the  example this is pv. This update that ME receives at time T may be in response to a PV update request that the user device ME earlier sent to the user device A. Alternatively, the user device ME may have received the updated pv in a PV update request (not explicitly shown in ) sent by the user device A. Next, assume the user device ME applies a timeout value of EX for its updating the entry for the user device A in its Presence Update Group. Therefore, if at time T+EX the user device ME has not received another PV update from the user device A, the user device ME will automatically send a PV update request to the user device A.","In one aspect the user device ME may then wait for a reply from the user device A. For example, the user device ME may, in conjunction with sending the PV update request to the user device A, set another timer with a \u201cwait for reply\u201d timeout. Alternatively, the user device ME may simply use the same timer and same timeout that it used for determining when to first send this PV update request to the user device A. In other words, if at time T+EX the user device ME sends the above-described PV update request it resets the timer (either to zero or to EX, depending on whether an incrementing or decrementing counter is used).","Continuing with the above example scenario of the user device ME updating the pv that it was storing for the user device A, it will be understood that in one aspect all the user devices  may be similarly configured, at least with respect to their schemes for updating their Presence Update Group to reflect updated PVs of other subscribers' user devices . Therefore, since the user device ME at T was in communication with the user device A then, from the user device A's point of view, it was in communication with the user device ME. Thus, at time T the user device A was maintaining its local stored copy of the PV value pv of the user device ME, and was also applying a scheme (which may or may not be identical to the scheme applied by the user device ME) for updating, its local stored pv of the user device ME. Therefore, whichever among the user devices ME and A first reaches its own timeout value with respect to the PV it stores for the other (or whichever of these user devices ME, A first experiences another type triggering event for sending its own PV to the other, prior to timeout by the other) will be the user device  that first sends the PV update request.","It will be understood that the contemplated example scenarios according to the present embodiments may provide, referring for purposes of illustration to the  example , thousands and thousands of the user devices such as  being interconnected (e.g., through a server or server resource such as ) at any given time. It is further contemplated that thousands of subscriber-to-subscriber communications through their respective user devices  may be extant at any given instant, many of which may be multi-member, multi-participant or multi-attendee groups. It will therefore be appreciated, when establishing specifications and rules for the setting of timeouts and other factors that each user device  applies for determining when to send their respective PV update requests that such scenarios may be taken into account. As will be readily understood by persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent arts from this disclosure, one general guideline for establishing such specifications and rules is the following: if the user devices maintain too many other subscriber PVs, and\/or the user devices send PV update requests too often, then one or both of the user devices or the network may be unnecessarily overloaded. As one additional example of such overload, it will be readily appreciated that timeouts being too short may increase the likelihood, especially in a group communication, of multiple participants' user devices unnecessarily sending PV update requests to other participant devices. Also, as will be further understood from the detailed description in reference to , if too many subscriber PVs are being maintained by a user device a result may be that displaying these PVs on that user device will become impractical. If, on the other hand, the user devices maintain too few other subscriber PVs, and\/or do not update these PVs often enough, then too many communications may be sent to unavailable or no-longer-participating subscribers.","Further to the above considerations and scenarios, one or more example embodiments provide for throttling and other adaptivity of the number of subscribers maintained in the Presence Update Groups being maintained by the user device, as depicted in , and of the frequency of the user devices sending PV update request, as depicted in .","In one aspect according to at least one of such example embodiments, the user devices may be configured to increase the timeout value (i.e., increase the maximum permitted time between PV updates) in relation to the number of PVs the user device is maintaining (as depicted in A, A, and A of ). Stated differently, according to one such aspect the longer the Presence Update Group the longer the time between PV update requests being sent. Further to this one aspect, the user devices may be configured to increase (incrementally or threshold step-wise) the timeout for PVs of other subscribers in large groups. The respective group size thresholds for increasing the timeout may be fixed independent of the type of communication, or may be further adaptable to be based on the type of communication (e.g., whether a group is playing an interactive game).","In another throttling aspect, a threshold \u201ctime since last communication\u201d or equivalent by which other subscribers are deleted from the user device's Presence Update Group may be reduced in correspondence with an increase in the length of the Presence Update Group. In other words, the criteria of a communication time-based sub-group can be modified, which may occur at B of , in an example.","In one aspect further to the above adaptive \u201ctime since last communication,\u201d the user devices may be configured to categorize the Presence Update Group into sub-groups based on each PV's associated \u201ctime since last communication\u201d (as depicted in steps B and B of ), and to apply larger timeout values to sub-groups having a longer \u201ctime since last communication\u201d (e.g., as depicted in steps B, B, and B of ).","In one throttling aspect, the other subscribers in the Presence Update Group of a user device may be categorized according to one or more characteristics of the particular listed subscriber. For example, a Category  (or Sub-Group ) may be important business contacts, a Category  (or Sub-Group ) may be persons that, in relation to the subscriber whose user device is maintaining such the Presence Update Group, may not require as accurate (i.e., recently updated) of a PV.","For a similar objective of reducing unnecessary message traffic on the network a user device may be configured, as previously described, to cease performing Presence Update Group updating when that user device is locked. This may also conserve the user device's battery power. In one aspect a user device may have multiple lock modes, and such a user device may be configured to determine whether to cease performing Presence Update Group updating based on which of the lock modes the user device is placed in. For example, as previously described, the user device may have one lock mode for preventing unauthorized persons from using the device and inadvertent key disabling lock mode for preventing inadvertent key pressing that may occur when placed in a user's pocket. A user device according to this aspect may be configured to provide the subscriber with an option of maintaining Presence Update Group updating while the user device is in the inadvertent key disabling lock mode. In context with , when the user device is locked, the determination of B will result in a return to B instead of advancing to B and B even if the priorities of the constituent contacts and\/or sub-groups are determined to have changed.","In another aspect, also previously described, a user device may be configured to reduce its frequency of, or to cease sending PV update requests when the subscriber is in an application in which he\/she is likely to remain for an extended duration, e.g., a media player or game (e.g., determined at A of , in an example).","In one aspect, at a triggering event such as a subscriber initiating a networking application according to the embodiments, the subscriber's user device may present an initial display reflecting the content (if any) of its Presence Update Group (e.g., as depicted in step B of ). In one aspect, these may be other subscribers with which this subscriber has recently communicated. In a related aspect, these may be other subscribers with which this subscriber has a still ongoing communication but, as one illustrative example, was forced to temporarily exit the networking application and attend to another matter.","Presence information is generally only relevant for a very short period of time. Thus, in another aspect of the invention, presence information is stripped from presence update messages that cannot be delivered or are not deliverable. Further, presence update messages may be omitted from the network history. That is, presence update messages that would normally be queued in the network history may be either omitted or only stored for a short period of time compared to non-presence update messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","506","502","504","500","500","506","500"]},"The  example Presence Update Group , in its depicted state, has a record  for the subscriber associated with the user device storing this list, and has a record  for each of five other subscribers, these having subscriber name field values of \u201cA,\u201d \u201cB,\u201d \u201cD,\u201d \u201cE\u201d and \u201cF.\u201d The example Presence Update Group  also has one sub-group element named \u201cC.\u201d It will be understood that \u201cA\u201d . . . \u201cF\u201d may be actual names or may be monikers. The record  for each individual subscriber in the Presence Update Group  has an associated PV value in its field . The record for sub-group element C does not have a PV value. The reason, as will be readily understood by persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art, is that a sub-group element C does not have a unitary communication status, at least with respect to being reachable through the user device. The subscriber associated with the user device storing the  example Presence Update Group  does, however, know the PV for each member of sub-group C. Stated more specifically, the Presence Update Group  indicates in its subscriber name field -C the name of its member subscribers A, D, and E, and all of these and their respective PVs also appear in the list. Accordingly, sub-group element C is an example whereby a constituent contact within a particular sub-group can actually correspond to an abstract, or grouping, of contacts, and need not be a specific, single contact.","The  example Presence Update Group  shows an example grouping of the Presence Status records  into a Sub-Group , Sub-Group , and Sub-Group . An example according to one aspect will be described in reference to , using these example sub-groups. As previously discussed, parameters by which Sub-Groups ,  and  may be maintained are recency of communication, various characterizations of the other subscribers (e.g., important business contact or less important entity), and alphabetical order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","604"]},"The  example display scheme  will assume a user device configured (initially or by the subscriber) to display in active screen areas  only subscribers in Sub-Group  of the Presence Update Group . Accordingly the active screen area  shows subscribers A and B, and sub-group element C. In one aspect, one or more of the active screen areas  may be highlighted by color, brightness or, as depicted in the  example, by a foreground versus background arrangement. A default highlighting or other designation scheme may be used, or one or more of the active areas may be selected on-the-fly by the user, e.g., using a single tap to designate. In the  example, the sub-group element C is set as a foreground , while the remaining Sub-Group  subscribers are in the background area . In one aspect, a user device may be configured so that the user designating a group such as the example sub-group element C affects a selection  of status information from the Presence Update Group  characterizing the sub-group element C, which may be displayed on a detailed display area such as  that is described in later sections.","It will be understood that the  example display scheme  and its background-foreground feature is not the only manner according to these embodiments for the user device to inform the subscriber, or to maintain for the subscriber's convenient retrieval, information on other subscribers in the Presence Update Group . For example, a user device according to these embodiments may be configured to present only one of the other subscribers from the Presence Update Group  and, in one aspect, may inform the subscriber that additional other subscribers or groups from the Presence Update Group  are \u201con-deck.\u201d On one further aspect, the subscriber may have the user device display the \u201con-deck\u201d subscriber(s) and\/or group(s). In one further aspect, a user device according to these embodiments may select as \u201con-deck\u201d other subscribers or groups from the Presence Update Group  with whom the subscriber has a higher estimated likelihood of wishing communication, based on factors such as the type of communication (e.g., voice, image, interactive activity), recency of communication, subscriber history.","Referring again to , in one aspect, the user device may be configured to display information about a sub-group and\/or about an individual subscriber. This may be by a default setting or by on-the-fly input from the user. As previously described, in one aspect the above-described highlighting or other designation scheme may also cause the user device to select  and display such information.  illustrates an example of this aspect by a detail display region  that displays the members of sub-group element C. In one aspect, the user device may be configured to display members who, apart from the sub-group element, are not in Sub-Group . This is illustrated in the  example, as group C members D and F appear in the detail display region  regardless of these subscribers D and F being in Sub-Group  and Sub-Group , respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"In one such initial display aspect, an initial display may be configured as an \u201cOptimistic Presence,\u201d in which upon a triggering event such as power-up or re-boot the user device will initially present the last valid display, e.g., the display the subscriber was looking at when the battery level caused his\/her device to shutdown. The user device will then send out PV update requests, receive PV update requests from other subscribers, and respond to such PV update requests until a new valid state is attained.","In another initial display aspect, the user device initial display may be configured as a \u201cPessimistic Presence,\u201d in which upon a triggering event such as power-up or re-boot the user device will initially present the subscriber with all contacts in his\/her address books being \u201cunavailable\u201d absent receipt of a new PV.","Referring again to the  example functional block flow , this figure depicts only an example PV update request from the user device ME to the user devices A, D and F, and has no explicit depiction of other communication among these user devices . Such communication may include data, and the data may include voice, image, text and, in one aspect, the user device coordinate data. The media, link and protocol for communicating such data are not necessarily specific to practicing distributed, client-side presence management according to these embodiments. Referring to , such data sharing may be mediated through the server , as shown by the example user device to server data sharing links , ,  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5","FIG. 8","FIG. 5"],"b":["700","400"]},"As was described in reference to , in one aspect PV update requests such as the example PV update request ME may include the IP address of the sender. The example PV update request (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.) includes the IP address of the user device ME as MyIP. Likewise, all target user devices include their IP address back in their respective responses (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.) to other user device's PV update requests. For example, in  the response ME sent from the user device D back to the user device ME includes as \u201cD-IP\u201d the IP address of the user device D.","It will be understood that in subscriber user device scenario such as that represented by  each subscriber's user device can theoretically obtain the IP address of each other subscriber's user device with which that user device has communicated (e.g., assuming there are no lost packets, and privacy settings at each user device permit sharing of presence information, and so on).","In one aspect, one or more subscribers may utilize one another's IP address to establish a data sharing links outside of the server , i.e., \u201coff-the-record\u201d with respect to that server.  shows one example  of such an \u201coff-the-record\u201d link. According to one additional aspect, the user devices may be configured to prompt the subscriber to establish such \u201coff-the-record\u201d links. For example, as shown in the  display  the user may highlight, or bring to the foreground, an image field representing another subscriber, e.g., the image field such as  representing subscriber F and, in response, the user device may prompt with a request, as shown by the example request .","In the previously described reference to the  example showing the user device ME sending a PV update request ME (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.) to the target user devices A, D and F, the ME communication is first sent, at time T, over link ME to the server . Referring first to the user device A, the server  forwards that PV update request ME over link A to the user device A, as PV update request message ME, to which the user device A responds, over the same link A, with PV update request response message ME (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.), and the server  in turn forwards this over the described link ME, as PV update request response message ME.","Referring now to , assume that in the above example a data sharing link was already established, at time T, between the user device ME and the user device A. Assume the established data sharing link is formed by, for example, the user device ME to server  data sharing link  and the user device A to server  data sharing link . Next, assume the session for the data sharing is, for example, an active media sharing and, further, that at time T the user device ME is performing (through the example data sharing links , ) a data push to the user device A. It will be understood that practice according to these aspects may be performed with data sharing sessions other than an active media session, and that the active media session is only for purposes of illustration of concepts.","According to one aspect, when a triggering event occurs in one of the contacts in a data sharing session to send a PV update request to another of the contacts (e.g., for example, such as a timer indicating that a transmission time for sending the PV update request has occurred to satisfy the associated frequency at which the PV update requests are to be transmitted), the data sharing link may carry that PV update request. In the example above of the user device ME and the user device A, instead of the PV update request ME sent at time T going over link ME, it may be embedded in the multimedia session data the user device ME is pushing (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.), through data sharing links  and , to the user device A. The user device A may, in turn, embed its response (e.g., A and\/or A of , B and\/or B of , etc.) in the acknowledgement (e.g. ACK) message it sends back to the user device ME.","It will be understood that according to this aspect the timers in both of the contacts in the data sharing session must reset their respective updating timers for the other. In other words, the receiving user device can, upon receiving the embedded PV update request from the second user device, reset its timer for that device. Likewise, the sending (now actually a receiving) user device can, upon receiving the requested updated presence PV embedded in, for example, the ACK message from the receiving (now actually sending) user device, reset its updating timer for that receiving user device.","In one aspect the user devices may be configured to determine, while in data sharing sessions with one another, which channel, link or mode of communication to use (i.e., data sharing link such as , ,  and\/or , or control or other link, e.g., ME, A, D and\/or F), to use for sending the PV update requests. Rules and thresholds for making such decisions may be application-specific and\/or may be environment specific. As will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the pertinent art after reading this disclosure, determining factors for which channel or link may more practically carry presence updating information according to these embodiments may include the following: i) the size of the presence updating communications, and ii) whether the data session is a high performance signaling or a best effort signaling.","More specifically, in high-performance signaling sessions carried on common channels the data communications can be associated with a maximum or threshold size budget. In such sessions, the inclusion of presence information may, depending on the size of such information, put the signaling over the size budget. On the other hand, communication size is generally less of a concern in best-effort signaling. Therefore, in best effort signaling data sharing sessions between subscriber user devices, embedding the presence information in the shared data may be performed with less concern as to the size of such presence information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIGS. 4A","FIG. 9","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"b":["800","1","802","804","804","806","505","525","515","545","510","515","520","525","802","804","808","808","806","802","808","802","808","4","505","510","515","525","515","520","525","545"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","102","108","110","112","200","120","122","160","165","170","186","1000"]},"Referring to , the communication device  includes logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information . In an example, if the communication device  corresponds to a wireless communications device (e.g., UE , Node B , etc.), the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can include a wireless communications interface (e.g., Bluetooth, WiFi, 2G, 3G, etc.) such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware (e.g., an RF antenna, a MODEM, a modulator and\/or demodulator, etc.). In another example, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can correspond to a wired communications interface (e.g., a serial connection, a USB or Firewire connection, an Ethernet connection through which the Internet  can be accessed, etc.). Thus, if the communication device  corresponds to some type of network-based server (e.g., SGSN , GGSN , application server , etc.), the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can correspond to an Ethernet card, in an example, that connects the network-based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device  can monitor its local environment (e.g., an accelerometer, a temperature sensor, a light sensor, an antenna for monitoring local RF signals, etc.). The logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  to perform its reception and\/or transmission function(s). However, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further includes logic configured to process information . In an example, the logic configured to process information  can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information  includes but is not limited to performing determinations, establishing connections, making selections between different information options, performing evaluations related to data, interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device  to perform measurement operations, converting information from one format to another (e.g., between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi, etc.), and so on. For example, the processor included in the logic configured to process information  can correspond to a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information  to perform its processing function(s). However, the logic configured to process information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to process information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further includes logic configured to store information . In an example, the logic configured to store information  can include at least a non-transitory memory and associated hardware (e.g., a memory controller, etc.). For example, the non-transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information  can correspond to RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information  to perform its storage function(s). However, the logic configured to store information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to store information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example, the logic configured to present information  can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example, the output device can include a video output device (e.g., a display screen, a port that can carry video information such as USB, HDMI, etc.), an audio output device (e.g., speakers, a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack, USB, HDMI, etc.), a vibration device and\/or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example, if the communication device  corresponds to UE  as shown in , the logic configured to present information  can include the display . In a further example, the logic configured to present information  can be omitted for certain communication devices, such as network communication devices that do not have a local user (e.g., network switches or routers, remote servers, etc.). The logic configured to present information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information  to perform its presentation function(s). However, the logic configured to present information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to present information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example, the logic configured to receive local user input  can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example, the user input device can include buttons, a touch-screen display, a keyboard, a camera, an audio input device (e.g., a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack, etc.), and\/or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example, if the communication device  corresponds to UE  as shown in , the logic configured to receive local user input  can include the display  (if implemented a touch-screen), keypad , etc. In a further example, the logic configured to receive local user input  can be omitted for certain communication devices, such as network communication devices that do not have a local user (e.g., network switches or routers, remote servers, etc.). The logic configured to receive local user input  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input  to perform its input reception function(s). However, the logic configured to receive local user input  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to receive local user input  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , while the configured logics of  through  are shown as separate or distinct blocks in , it will be appreciated that the hardware and\/or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example, any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of  through  can be stored in the non-transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information , such that the configured logics of  through  each performs their functionality (i.e., in this case, software execution) based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise, hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example, the processor of the logic configured to process information  can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information , such that the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  performs its functionality (i.e., in this case, transmission of data) based in part upon the operation of hardware (i.e., the processor) associated with the logic configured to process information . Further, the configured logics or \u201clogic configured to\u201d of  through  are not limited to specific logic gates or elements, but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein (either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software). Thus, the configured logics or \u201clogic configured to\u201d of  through  are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word \u201clogic.\u201d","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor.","Accordingly, an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for client-side distributed presence management accord to one or more of the disclosed embodiments. Accordingly, practice is not limited to illustrated examples and any mechanisms for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings are presented to aid in the description of the embodiments and are provided solely for illustration of examples related to the embodiments and not any limitation thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
