---
title: Inferring resource allocation decisions from descriptive information
abstract: A provisioning system may select an available implementation resource by analyzing user data to infer a role of a proposed computing resource and comparing the role to roles of other existing computer resources. The user data may include a user-specified identifier for the proposed computing resource, such as a label. The role may be used to rank available implementation resources using factors including distance to, roles of, and relationship with other user computing resources. A ranking of available implementation resources may be used to select an implementation resource for provisioning the proposed computing resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775438&OS=08775438&RS=08775438
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08775438
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110922
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["U.S. Non-Provisional application Ser. No. 12\/973,746 filed Dec. 20, 2010, is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Administering computing resources can be a complex task. With servers, for example, each server may have required configurations and settings to prepare. These configurations should be balanced with proper security and redundancy. However, if, during this balancing, one of the server components is not linked together correctly, applications may not work optimally, if at all. For example, a web server may require database server communication information such as database hostname, database name, username and password. If the configuration information is incorrect or the permissions are incorrect, the web server may not be able to retrieve data from the database server.","Fault tolerance may also be a consideration for an administrator and developer. Redundancies may be built into the application and redundant servers provisioned. For example, the administrator may provision several databases with redundant data, in case of a failure. Unfortunately, redundancies may still fail if the redundancies share hardware that fails. However, having servers or other resources spread further apart may not be desirable because of an increase of latency and decrease of bandwidth. For example an application may have increased latency and appear slower because of too many network bottlenecks, possibly due to multiple routers. While various conventional techniques have been employed to effectively allocate computing resources, due to the complexity of the tasks, the employed techniques are of varied success.","In the following description, various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation, specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However, it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore, well-known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.","Techniques described and suggested herein include systems and methods for inferring a role of a proposed computing resource and provisioning the proposed computing resource with a determined placement. The determined placement in at least some embodiments is consistent with a role relationship of the proposed computing resource with respect to other resources. For example, a user may have a current resource named \u201cMy Application DB #1.\u201d The user may request to provision a new computing resource with a name of \u201cMy Application DB #2.\u201d A provisioning system may note the similarities between the application names, and can infer that DB indicates a database role. Selecting the database role, the provisioning system may then examine and rank available implementation resources. An available implementation resource may be an unassigned computing resource that accepts a user program or series of programs, such as a guest operating system slot on a host machine. As a database role may define that spreading database resources are more desirable to avoid same-hardware failure, available implementation resources that are more distant to the related resource named \u201cMy Application DB #1\u201d may receive higher rankings. The provisioning system may then provision the new computing resource using a highly ranked available implementation resource.","Examining user-specified information to infer a role, such as a name of \u201cMy Application DB #1,\u201d may allow a provisioning system to make better choices regarding resource placement. By inferring a role of a proposed computing resource, relationships with other computing resources having a role may be easier to determine. When computing resources are viewed in terms of roles, placement of the computing resources may be defined in terms of role relationships. A role of a computing resource may define which roles are desirable to have near the computing resource and which roles are desired to have at a further distance. These desired distances may be expressed in a proximity condition relating one role to another role that when calculated, results in a rating of the distance between two roles. Applying the proximity condition to an available implementation resource using an inferred role of a proposed computing resource, a ranking score may be calculated using the role relationships with other instantiated resources having roles. For example, as discussed in the example above, it may be desirable to have databases more tolerant to failure, which may mean less shared hardware with other databases. Therefore, when a provisioning system infers a database role for a proposed computing resource, the proximity condition may cause available implementation resources closer to other user databases to be scored lower than those further away. Using the ranking scores of multiple available implementation resources, a ranking of the available implementation resources may be created. The ranking may then be used to make a decision as to which available implementation resource may be used to instantiate the proposed computing resource. In some embodiments, the highest ranked available implementation resource would be used.","In one embodiment, shown in , a provisioning system may use a process  to determine computing resource placement using user-specified data. Some or all of the example process  (or any other processes described herein, or variations and\/or combinations thereof) may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code (e.g., executable instructions, one or more computer programs, or one or more applications) executing collectively on one or more processors, by hardware, or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer-readable storage medium, for example, in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer-readable storage medium may be non-transitory. For example, an application server  as seen in , or other computer systems involved in the provisioning of computing resources may include a provisioning system to determine computing resource placement.","Having decided to implement a new resource, a user may input a configuration and name of a computing resource. The user may then request to provision the computing resource. The provisioning system may receive  the request to provision a proposed computing resource. For example, a user may request to provision a new machine image, containing an operating system in a data center having virtualized hosts as seen in . User information relating the resource, such as title, tags, or other user-provided information may be analyzed  to determine a best role match, or inferred role, for the proposed computing resource. For example,  show illustrative examples of processes that may be used to analyze user-provided information for an inferred role. Using the determined role, a provisioning system may rank  available implementation resources using a proximity condition. The proximity condition may use distance measurements and affinity between the determined role and roles of other user resources to prepare a score for available implementation resources. The provisioning system may then provision  the proposed computing resource using an implementation resource recommended by the ranking. For example, ,  and  show illustrative examples of processes that may be used to rank available implementation resources. In other embodiments, an implementation resource is selected from a set of available implementation resources that meet minimum criteria as defined by a proximity condition. For example, an available implementation resource may be selected from a pool of available implementation resources that share a router with another user implementation resource which has a role of cluster.","In one embodiment, as seen in , the user data may be received in conjunction with a web page . The user data may be input via a web page  displayed on a web browser interface . The web browser interface may interface may include instructions  and user data input controls. User data input controls may include name field , tags field , image selection field , user override  and submission button . The instructions  may guide the user through operation of the current web page . A name field  may be useful to identify the requested computing resource from other computing resources. A tag field  may be useful to describe features or functionality of the computing resource. An image field  may be useful to identify a machine image to be used by the computing resource. A machine image may include programming information that may be given to an available implementation resource to perform tasks. For example, a guest operating slot when unused may be an available implementation resource that may receive a Linux\u2122 machine image to become a web server. A user override  may allow a user to select or suggest a proximity to other resources in the data center in lieu of allowing the system to pick an implementation resource.","User data may also be received in other ways. For example, user data may also be received through an application programming interface (API), as well as requests to provision resources. In one embodiment, a developer may have a program that contacts the provisioning API when new computing resources are needed. For example, the program may contact the provisioning API and request a new computing resource named \u201cMy Application DB #4.\u201d The provisioning API may then use the user data to infer a role and place the new database server at an appropriate distance from other computing resource roles. User data may also be contained in metadata. For example, a proposed computing resource may come from a machine image, such as a snapshot. During creation of the machine image, user data associated with the machine image may be stored as XML metadata alongside or within the image. The user data may be input by the user or copied during a snapshot procedure. In another embodiment, a user may input user data and request provisioning from a mobile application. In another embodiment, upon receiving a user request to examine the proposed computing resource, a provisioning system may examine the proposed computing resource to extract user information. For example, a user may request that the provisioning system extract a hostname from the proposed computing resource to use as an identifier of the proposed computing resource.","Once the user data has been received by the provisioning system, in an embodiment, the user data may be analyzed for a role. In one embodiment, as illustrated in , a process of inferring a role may be followed by a provisioning system to infer a role. The provisioning system may receive  the user data and compare  the user data to a dictionary of words associated with roles. If a sufficient match is made  between the user data and the dictionary words, the role associated with the words may be inferred . For example, use of the words \u201ccluster,\u201d \u201chadoop,\u201d \u201ccompute,\u201d \u201cfast,\u201d and\/or use of the abbreviation \u201cclstr\u201d may indicate a cluster role. If not a match , the provisioning system may use  fuzzy matching to analyze the user data to a role. If a sufficient match is made  between the user data using fuzzy matching analysis, the role determined by fuzzy analysis may be inferred . For example, abbreviations such as \u201cDataB\u201d may be matched with a database dictionary word, even though not a direct match in the dictionary. Fuzzy matching, for example, may include approximate string matching, and\/or computing a Levenshtein distance or other metric of string similarity. If not a match  through fuzzy matching analysis, the user data may be matched  against other resource names. For example, a fuzzy matching analysis may compute a score of similarity between the user-specified data and dictionary words. If the score is within a range, the strings may be defined as matching. If a sufficient match is made  between the user data using resource name matching, the role determined by resource name matching may be inferred . For example, if another resource is named \u201cMyD 1\u201d with a determined role of database, a new resource named \u201cMyD 2\u201d may be inferred to have the same role as \u201cMyD 1.\u201d If not a match , a default role may be inferred. The default role may be a role having basic assumptions.","In another embodiment shown in , the roles may be determined by a process  that combines measurements and infers a role. For example, an application server  as seen in , or other computer systems involved in the provisioning of computing resources may include a provisioning system to infer roles. The user data may be received , and then processed by comparing  the user data to a dictionary, performing  fuzzy matching to the dictionary, and matching  the user data to other resources with roles. The system may then use the resulting information provided by operations ,  and  to compare  the determined roles and determine  if there is a role match. If no match or a split match, a default role may be assumed . If there is a match, a role may be inferred . The actions recited may be performed as described above and in conjunction with .","Roles may be viewed as the services offered or relationships to other computing resources. Depending on the granularity of the configurations supported, roles may be generic and\/or specific. Generic roles may include application, computing, database, redundancy and storage. Specific roles may include database shard, web server, load balancer and API server. Each role may have a suggested proximity to other roles, which may be used in making decisions to instantiate new computing resources in a data center. For example, databases as a general rule may not need speed or bandwidth to other databases within the same application. But should one database fail, other databases may continue to operate and serve information to an application server. Therefore, a database role to database role placement may encourage larger distances between the resources. However, a database role to application server role ranking may favor closer distances. As the application server may be in frequent communication with an application server, the speed may be worth the risk of both services sharing a hardware failure. Furthermore, the database may not be able to function without the application server. If the application server fails or both the application server and the database fail, the outcome may not be any different. The application will not be functional, and a closer distance would be acceptable. In another example, a cluster node may operate more efficiently at a closer distance. Having several cluster nodes fail may be an acceptable risk, but having a slower communication between nodes may not be as acceptable. Therefore, cluster nodes may be desirable to locate closer together. Each role may thus have rules about proximity or a proximity condition. In some embodiments, the rules are symmetrical. In another example, a redundant role may include a redundant server be provisioned such that if an active server experiences a problem the redundant server may immediately replace the active server. The redundant server may require sufficient distance to minimize shared hardware failures, but close enough distance to access the resources and receive information related to the active server. The redundant role, therefore, may rate an intermediate distance as desirable.","Part of ranking an available implementation resource may include determining a distance between an available implementation resource and a current user resource. A data center  may be viewed as a collection of shared computing resources and\/or shared infrastructure. For example, as shown in , a data center  may include virtual machine slots , physical hosts , power supplies , routers , isolation zones  and geographical locations . A physical host  may be shared by multiple virtual machine slots , each slot  capable of holding a guest operating system. Multiple physical hosts  may share a power supply , such as a power supply  provided on a server rack. A router  may service multiple physical hosts  across several power supplies  to route network traffic. An isolation zone  may service many routers , the isolation zone  being a group of computing resources that are serviced by redundancies such as backup generators. Multiple isolation zones  may reside at a geographical location , such as a data center . A provisioning server  may include a memory and processor configured with instructions to analyze user data and rank available implementation resources using determined roles and shared resources\/infrastructure in the calculation. The provisioning server  may also manage workflows for provisioning and deprovisioning computing resources as well as detecting health and\/or failure of computing resources.","Distance between resources or proximity may be measured by the degree of shared resources. This distance may be used in the ranking of resources according to role. For example, a first system on a host  that shares a router  with a second system may be more proximate to the second system than to a third system only sharing an isolation zone . In one embodiment a distance between two slots  sharing a physical host  may be defined as a zero distance. A distance between two slots  on two different physical hosts  sharing a power supply  may be defined as a 1 distance. A distance between two slots  on two different physical hosts  on different a power supplies  sharing a router  may be defined as a 2 distance. The distance may be further incremented for each level of unshared resource. In another embodiment, the distance may be defined in terms of unshared resources. For example, two slots  sharing a router  may have a distance of a physical host , and a power supply . Each difference in resources may be weighted differently in a distance calculation.","Potential placements of computing resources within a datacenter may be scored according to distances using proximity conditions as defined by roles. An application server  as seen in , or other computer systems involved in the provisioning of computing resources may include a ranking system to evaluate placements of computing resources such as in process . As seen in the process  described in , a system may first receive  a list of available implementation resources to evaluate. The next available implementation resource may be selected for evaluation . The available implementation resource may be ranked  according to a proximity condition described in the determined role. If the list has  more unranked available implementation resources, the unranked available implementation resources may each be selected  and ranked . The ranking system may then recommend  one or more available implementation resources.","When ranking a resource, the provisioning system may use a distance between resources and\/or shared\/unshared resources in its calculation. The resources may be evaluated for roles, which may determine how each differing resource may receive a weight. For example, assuming two roles have an affinity for sharing a router, such as a database role and an application role, a rule may be created to improve placement of a proposed computing resource having one role and the implemented resource having the other role. In an example of weighting using , roles having differing routers  may be given a weight of \u221250. Roles having differing supplies  may be given a weight of 100. Roles having differing hosts  may be given a weight of 1000. Other distance measurements may be given a 0, with a higher score being preferable.","Using the rules above, and applying the process from  and the data center as described in , calculations may be performed by the provisioning system to evaluate placement within a datacenter. For example, a proposed application-server role sharing a router  with an existing database role, but nothing else below the router  may receive a perfect score of 1100. However the two roles not sharing the router may receive a score of 1050. Thus, the preference may be given to the available slots  sharing a router . In another embodiment, a role may specify a preferred distance to another role with weights assigned to deviations. For example, using the same preferences as before, an ideal deviation may be sharing a router  at a 2 distance with a 0 score, with a lower score being more preferable. Deviations lower than 2, may receive 1000 points for each number lower than 2 because too much risk would exist in hardware failure. Deviations higher than 2 may receive 50 points for each number higher than 2 because sharing less hardware is preferable to sharing more hardware, when forced to move away from the ideal distance. Thus, a proposed application-server role in a slot  sharing a router  with a database role with a score of 0 may be more preferable than two slots only sharing an isolation zone  with a score of 50.","In some embodiments, the proximity of resources evaluation may be further enhanced by determining related user resources. In one embodiment, user data may be analyzed and matched with other user resources to determine related user resources. For example, a user has two resources named \u201cMyCluster 1\u201d and \u201cMyWebApp DB.\u201d If the user requests a new computing resource be instantiated with the name of \u201cMyCluster 2,\u201d the provisioning system may match the \u201cMyCluster 1\u201d resource as related to the proposed resource of \u201cMyCluster 2.\u201d Thus, the provisioning system may only evaluate the relationship between \u201cMyCluster 1\u201d and \u201cMyCluster 2,\u201d as \u201cMyWebApp DB\u201d may be unrelated. In other embodiments, resources determined to be more related may receive a higher weight in the ranking of available implementation resources. Using the information from the prior example, the numerical rating between \u201cMyCluster 1\u201d and \u201cMyCluster 2\u201d may have a greater effect on the available implementation resource ranking than \u201cMyWebApp DB\u201d with \u201cMyCluster 2\u201d because of the highly related nature of the names.","An example of using the processes of  and  may be seen in .  represents several views , ,  of a data center before and after two provisioning steps. In a first view of a datacenter , computing resources are shown in terms of an isolation zone , routers  and , available implementation resources  and two user resources  and . A first user named User 1 has already provisioned a first resource named \u201cAppWeb\u201d , while a second user named User 2 has provisioned a resource named \u201cAppDB 1\u201d (). In this example, provisioning on the same router is a distance of 1, while provisioning within the same isolation zone  without sharing a router is a distance of 2. A database role to database role may have a preferred distance of 2, while a preferred distance of database role to web server role may be a distance of 1. For each distance unit away greater than the preferred distance of database role to database role, 10 points may be added because a further distance may be marginally less desirable. For each unit less than the preferred distance of the database role to database role, 100 points may be added because a closer distance is much less desirable. For each distance unit away from the preferred distance of 1 for a database to application role, 10 points may be added. Related resources may have their ranking scores multiplied by 10. A lower score is defined as more desirable.","After a first view  and before a second view  of a datacenter, User 2 may request to provision another computing resource. User 2 may provide user data related to the proposed computing resource as a title of \u201cAppDB 2\u201d and request the ranking system to determine the best placement for the proposed computing resource. The ranking system may analyze the User information to provide a match as to role. Breaking apart the title \u201cAppDB 2\u201d may yield a dictionary match of \u201cDB\u201d within a role dictionary. \u201cDB\u201d may indicate a role of database in the role dictionary.","Reviewing other existing User 2 resources in the first view , the ranking system may find that User 2 has provisioned another resource as \u201cAppDB 1\u201d . The ranking system may discover that both systems have \u201cAppDB\u201d in their name, and infer a relationship, causing the distance score to be multiplied by 10. Having discovered \u201cAppDB 1,\u201d its role may be determined if not known, or recalled if stored. In some embodiments, an inferred role may be stored with the resource, such as in metadata. Either way, the role of \u201cAppDB 1\u201d may be determined to be a role of a database.","Using the associated roles and relationship information, available implementation resources may be ranked. The ranking system may begin ranking available implementation resources  using a proximity condition to other user resources, which, in the example, are User AppDB 1. Available implementation resources  have a distance of 2 because of a shared isolation zone  with User 2 AppDB 1 (). Since the applications are related, the ranking score may be multiplied by 10. Thus a distance of 2 is preferred with a score of 0.0 multiplied by 10 is 0. Thus, the ranking score of available implementation resources  may be 0. Available implementation resources  have a distance of the same router to User 2 AppDB 1 (), resulting in a distance of 1. Since, the applications are related, the ranking score may be multiplied by 10. Thus, a distance of 1 is less than the preferred distance by 1 unit. Each unit under adds 100 points. Multiplying 100 points, for a unit under the preferred distance, by 10, for a related application, results in a score of 1000 for available implementation resources . With available implementation resources  having a score of 0 compared to available implementation resources  having a score of 1000, the ranking system would choose to instantiate the proposed resource of User2 AppDB 2 using an available implementation resource . The instantiation of User 2 AppDB 2 results in a second view  of the data center. User 2 AppDB 2 () was instantiated using one of the higher ranked available implementation resources .","After the second view of the data center  and before a third view of the data center , User 1 may request provisioning of a proposed resource with the title of \u201cAppDB.\u201d The ranking system may match the user-specified data of \u201cAppDB\u201d with the dictionary word \u201cDB,\u201d indicating a database role for the proposed resource. \u201cAppWeb\u201d  may be then found as a related resource because both resources share the \u201cApp\u201d title portion. Assuming the resource \u201cAppWeb\u201d  was previously found to be a web server, the desired distance between the proposed \u201cAppDB\u201d and \u201cAppWeb\u201d  would be 1. The ranking system may then evaluate the available implementation resources using a proximity condition. Available implementation resources  would have a distance of 2 from User 1 AppWeb (). An actual distance of 2 is one away from the desired distance of 1, resulting in a score of 10. Multiplying the score of 10 by 10, because of the inferred relationship, results in a ranking score of 100 for available implementation resources . Available implementation resources  would have a distance of 1 from User 1 AppWeb (). An actual distance of 1 is the desired distance of 1, resulting in a score of 0. Multiplying the score of 0 by 10, because of the inferred relationship, results in a ranking score of 0 for available implementation resources . As available implementation resources  have a score of 0 compared with available implementation resources  score of 100, available implementation resources  may be recommended. As seen in a third view of the data center , User 1 AppDB () has been provisioned in what was previously an available implementation resource .","The provisioning system may not only work for proposed computing resources, but also existing computer resources. In one embodiment, the provisioning system may receive a request to replace a failing (or failed) resource. The information from the failing resource or a snapshot of the failing resource may be provisioned using the operations described above as the proposed computing resource. The failing resource may have a role determined, and available implementation resources ranked according to the role and roles of other existing resources. In another embodiment, currently existing resources may have their placement reexamined. This reexamination of placement may be triggered by timing, such as every six months, or an event, such as an expansion of the data center. For example, after a data center has expanded the number of available computing resources, the provisioning system may receive a request to re-evaluate the placement of computing resources. The provisioning system may then determine the role of a computing resource and rank available implementation resources, including newly available computing resources using the roles of existing computing resources and shared infrastructure. Should a better match be found, the provisioning system may migrate the existing computer resource to the selected implementation resource.","Inferring roles and ranking of implementation resources may also be expanded to multiple proposed resources to determine a configuration, as seen in an example of a process  shown in . A list of available implementation resources may be received . Information about current user resources may be received . Proposed resource information may be received  with associated user data. Using the available implementation resources, a configuration of proposed resources using available implementation resources may be populated . The configuration may be ranked  by combining the ranking score of each proposed implementation resource. For example, each proposed resource may have a role inferred. Using the inferred roles, each resource may receive a ranking score using the roles with respect to current user resources and other proposed resources using a proximity condition. If more configurations exist , another configuration may be populated  and ranked . After which, configurations may be recommended  for implementation. A provisioning system may then instantiate the proposed resources using the recommended available implementation resources.","In another embodiment shown in , a process  may evaluate the available implementation resources before determining configurations. For example, list of available implementation resources may be received . Information about current user resources may be received . Proposed resource information may be received  with associated user data. Each available implementation resource may be evaluated  using each proposed resource resulting in a recommendation of an initial configuration of proposed resources. Using the initial ranking, the configuration may by optimized  by moving or swapping resource placement. Upon achieving a desired optimization, the ranking system may recommend a configuration. A provisioning system may then instantiate the proposed resources using the recommendation. In some embodiments, optimization may include meeting a minimum threshold of acceptable placements rather than a maximum ranked value.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1002","1004","1006"]},"The illustrative environment includes at least one application server  and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers, layers, or other elements, processes, or components, which may be chained or otherwise configured, which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term \u201cdata store\u201d refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing, accessing, and retrieving data, which may include any combination and number of data servers, databases, data storage devices, and data storage media, in any standard, distributed, or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device, handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store, and is able to generate content such as text, graphics, audio, and\/or video to be transferred to the user, which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML, XML, or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses, as well as the delivery of content between the client device  and the application server , can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components, as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.","The data store  can include several separate data tables, databases, or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example, the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data  and user information , which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data , which can be used for reporting, analysis, or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store, such as for page image information and to access right information, which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store  is operable, through logic associated therewith, to receive instructions from the application server  and obtain, update, or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example, a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case, the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user, and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user, such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.","Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server, and typically will include a computer-readable storage medium (e.g., a hard disk, random access memory, read only memory, etc.) storing instructions that, when executed by a processor of the server, allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available, and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art, particularly in light of the disclosure herein.","The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links, using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus, the depiction of the system  in  should be taken as being illustrative in nature, and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.","The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments, which in some cases can include one or more user computers, computing devices, or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers, such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system, as well as cellular, wireless, and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially-available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices, such as dummy terminals, thin-clients, gaming systems, and other devices capable of communicating via a network.","Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially-available protocols, such as TCP\/IP, OSI, FTP, UPnP, NFS, CIFS, and AppleTalk. The network can be, for example, a local area network, a wide-area network, a virtual private network, the Internet, an intranet, an extranet, a public switched telephone network, an infrared network, a wireless network, and any combination thereof.","In embodiments utilizing a Web server, the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid-tier applications, including HTTP servers, FTP servers, CGI servers, data servers, Java servers, and business application servers. The server(s) also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices, such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language, such as Java\u00ae, C, C# or C++, or any scripting language, such as Pert, Python, or TCL, as well as combinations thereof. The server(s) may also include database servers, including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle\u00ae, Microsoft\u00ae, Sybase\u00ae, and IBM\u00ae.","The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations, such as on a storage medium local to (and\/or resident in) one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments, the information may reside in a storage-area network (\u201cSAN\u201d) familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly, any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers, servers, or other network devices may be stored locally and\/or remotely, as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices, each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus, the elements including, for example, at least one central processing unit (CPU), at least one input device (e.g., a mouse, keyboard, controller, touch screen, or keypad), and at least one output device (e.g., a display device, printer, or speaker). Such a system may also include one or more storage devices, such as disk drives, optical storage devices, and solid-state storage devices such as random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d) or read-only memory (\u201cROM\u201d), as well as removable media devices, memory cards, flash cards, etc.","Such devices also can include a computer-readable storage media reader, a communications device (e.g., a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infrared communication device, etc.), and working memory as described above. The computer-readable storage media reader can be connected with, or configured to receive, a computer-readable storage medium, representing remote, local, fixed, and\/or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and\/or more permanently containing, storing, transmitting, and retrieving computer-readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications, modules, services, or other elements located within at least one working memory device, including an operating system and application programs, such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example, customized hardware might also be used and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed.","Storage media and computer readable media for containing code, or portions of code, can include any appropriate media known or used in the art, including storage media and communication media, such as but not limited to volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and\/or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data, including RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disk (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein, a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and\/or methods to implement the various embodiments.","The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments as set forth in the claims.","Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus, while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions, certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood, however, that there is no intention to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter to the specific form or forms disclosed, but on the contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications, alternative constructions, and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the various embodiments, as defined in the appended claims.","The use of the terms \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201chaving,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201ccontaining\u201d are to be construed as open-ended terms (i.e., meaning \u201cincluding, but not limited to,\u201d) unless otherwise noted. The term \u201cconnected\u201d is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within, attached to, or joined together, even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., \u201csuch as\u201d) provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate various embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the claimed subject matter unless otherwise indicated. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.","Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein, including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.","All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
