---
title: Fitting for use in fuel gas systems and applications using same
abstract: A fitting is for use in a fuel gas system having an access port for providing access to the system. The fitting includes a fitting body and a valve core. The fitting body includes: a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory, and a central bore of at least 13/64″ through the fitting providing an opening through the fitting body between the first end and the second end. The valve core is removably received in a valve receiving means of the fitting body, and includes a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end. The valve core is removable from the fitting body so that an unobstructed volume of the central bore can be available for a flow of fuel gas into the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335190&OS=09335190&RS=09335190
owner: PRESTO-TAP, LLC
number: 09335190
owner_city: Greenville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110628
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","THE NAMES OF PARTIES TO A JOINT RESEARCH AGREEMENT","INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAIL DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION","A. Environment","B. The Fitting","C. Application 1","Leak Testing with a Gauge Only","D. Application 2","Leak Testing with a Portable Cylinder Assembly","E. Application 3","Testing Differential Pressures in Rotary and Diaphragm Meters","F. Application 4","Supplying Fuel Gas to Fuel Gas Systems while Maintenance is Performed Such as Meter and Regulator Replacement","G. Application 5","Gas Meter Set with External Relief Valve Testing Method with Apparatus","H. Conclusion"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/359,168, filed Jun. 28, 2010, the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.","Not applicable.","Not applicable","Not applicable.","1. Field of the Invention","The presently-disclosed subject matter relates to a fitting for use in fuel gas systems and applications using the same.","2. Background Art","Fuel gas systems (e.g., propane or natural gas piping systems for distribution and metering of fuel gas to end users such as business and residential customers) are generally closed systems without ready access into the system for such purposes as: a) leak testing; b) testing of differential pressures in rotary and diaphragm meters; c) supplying gas from a cylinder to the system while maintenance is performed such as meter and regulator replacement; and d) testing operation of a relief valve.","Prior art fittings for accessing fuel gas systems have flexible seats or seals held in a housing through which access to the system requires the use of metal probes or needles which are forced through the seats and into the system. The use of lubrication between the probes or needles and the flexible seats is required when using such prior art fittings. The seats can leak below 45 degrees Fahrenheit due to memory problems. Further, such prior art fittings require the use of safety goggles and gloves because the probes can potentially \u201cblow out\u201d of the fitting and cause injury.","Another way that that access into the system could be provided would be by providing permanent bypass valves and associated piping in the system. However, providing such permanent bypass valves and piping is both expensive and difficult with which to work.","With respect to leak testing, fuel gas leaks, including propane and natural gas leaks, can cause serious problems from both a health and safety standpoint. For example, fires resulting from such leaks can cause both property damage and personal injury including, in some cases, death.","At present, two tests are generally required as set out in NFPA Pamphlet 54, a safety code that applies to the installation of fuel gas piping systems, appliances, equipment, and related accessories. First, a pressure test must be performed on the piping installed in a fuel gas system. The second test that must be performed is a leak test on the functional fuel gas system.","The pressure test is usually performed at 1\u00bd times the system working pressure, but not less than 3 psig. Thus, fuel gas appliances or other devices must not be connected to the system so appliance controls are not damaged. Also, air or inert gas is used instead of the anticipated fuel to be used during normal operations. As such, the air or inert gas must generally be purged from the system prior to use of the selected fuel.","The leak test is generally performed after appliances or other such devices are attached to the fuel gas system and can be performed with the fuel gas that is used in the system. As such, the leak test is designed to test for leaks in the entire system, including the fuel delivery source location, regulators, meters, piping, and appliance control modules. Further, a leak test is also required anytime there has been an interruption in the fuel gas system (e.g., an interruption in service).","Additionally, access to fuel gas systems is required for performing testing of differential pressures in rotary and diaphragm meters, supplying gas from a cylinder to the system while maintenance is performed such as meter and regulator replacement, and testing operation of a relief valve.","In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a fitting is for use in a fuel gas system having an access port for providing access to the system. The fitting includes a fitting body and a valve core. The fitting body includes: a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body, and a central bore of at least 13\/64\u2033 completely through the fitting along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end. The valve core is removably received in a valve receiving means of the fitting body, and includes a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end. The valve core is removable from the fitting body so that a full, unobstructed volume of the central bore can be available for a flow of fuel gas into the fuel gas system.","According to one implementation, the first end includes \u00bc\u2033 MNPT threads for providing the mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, and the second end includes 7\/16-20 UNF threads for providing connection of the accessory to the fitting body.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a method is for supplying fuel gas from an alternate fuel source to a fuel gas system while upstream maintenance is performed. The method includes: providing a shutoff valve downstream of the maintenance to be performed; providing an access port downstream of the shutoff valve, the access port for providing access to the fuel gas system; and installing a fitting in the access port. The fitting includes: a fitting body including: a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body to, and a central bore of at least 13\/64\u2033 completely through the fitting along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end; and a valve core removably received in a valve receiving means of the fitting body and including a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end, the valve core removable from the fitting body so that a full, unobstructed volume of the central bore can be available for a flow of fuel gas into the fuel gas system. The method further includes providing a core removal tool assembly which includes: a hollow body; a swivel connector at a fitting end of the hollow body; a core removal rod assembly connected at an opposite end of the hollow body, the core removal rod assembly including a core removal rod having means for engaging and removing the valve core; a ball valve at a middle of the hollow body, the ball valve having a first position in which the fitting end is in communication with the opposite end and the core removal rod can extend through the ball valve, and a second position in which the fitting end is isolated from the opposite end; and a fuel supply receiving port between the swivel connector and the ball valve. Continuing with the method, the method further includes: attaching an alternate fuel supply to the fuel supply receiving port; attaching the swivel connector to the second end of the fitting; removing the valve core from the fitting using the core removal rod; retracting the core removal rod and the valve core through the ball valve, allowing the alternate fuel supply to communicate with the fuel gas system through the full, unobstructed volume of the central bore; closing the ball valve; and closing the shutoff valve so that the fuel gas system is supplied by fuel gas from the alternate fuel source while maintenance is performed upstream of the shutoff valve.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a method is for testing for leaks in a fuel gas system having an access port for providing access to the system and a valve positioned upstream of the access port. The method includes installing a fitting in the access port. The fitting includes: a fitting body including a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body to, and a central bore along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end; and a valve core removably received in a valve core receiving means in the fitting body and including a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end. The method also includes: attaching a pressure gauge to the second end of the fitting, the pressure gauge including an actuator for actuating the valve operator and exposing the pressure gauge to a pressure of the system; closing the upstream valve; and monitoring the pressure gauge for a change in measured pressure indicating a leak in the fuel gas system downstream of the upstream valve.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, a method is for testing for leaks in a fuel gas system having an access port for providing access to the fuel gas system, the fuel gas system being isolated from a primary fuel supply. The method includes installing a fitting in the access port. The fitting includes: a fitting body including a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body to, and a central bore along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end; and a valve core removably received in a valve core receiving means in the fitting body and including a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end. The method further includes attaching a portable cylinder assembly to the second end of the fitting. The portable cylinder assembly comprises: a portable cylinder containing a compressed gas; a portable cylinder connector attached to the portable cylinder and providing access to the compressed gas in the portable cylinder; a control valve in communication with the connector and located downstream of the connector, the control valve for controlling flow of the compressed gas from the cylinder to the fuel gas system; an pressure gauge in communication with the control valve, the pressure gauge for determining a pressure downstream of the control valve; and a fuel gas system connector in communication with the pressure gauge, the fuel gas system connector including an actuator for actuating the valve operator and placing the portable cylinder assembly in communication with the fuel gas system. The method further includes: opening the control valve to pressurize the fuel gas system with the compressed gas of the portable cylinder assembly; closing the control valve; and monitoring the pressure gauge for a change in measured pressure indicating a leak in the fuel gas system.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, a fuel gas system includes: a fuel gas meter having a fuel input access port and a fuel output access port; a first fitting in communication with the fuel input access port; and a second fitting in communication with the fuel output access port. Each of the first fitting and the second fitting includes: a fitting body including: a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the respective access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body to, and a central bore along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end; and a valve core removably received in a valve core receiving means in the fitting body and including a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end.","According to still another aspect of the invention, a method is for testing an external relief valve of a fuel gas system, the fuel gas system including an upstream valve upstream of a regulator, a downstream valve downstream of the regulator, the external relief valve being connected to a downstream side of the downstream valve. The method includes providing a first fitting on a downstream side of the upstream valve and a second fitting between the downstream side of the downstream valve and the external relief valve. Each of the first fitting and the second fitting includes: a fitting body including a first end for providing mating connection of the fitting body to the access port, a second end for providing connection of an accessory to the fitting body to, and a central bore along a longitudinal axis thereof providing an opening completely through the fitting body between the first end and the second end; and a valve core received in a valve core receiving means in the fitting body and including a valve operator actuatable to open a fluid connection between the first end and the second end. The method further includes: connecting a hose assembly between the first fitting and the second fitting, the hose assembly including a hose, an adapter on each end thereof, and a pressure gauge for indicating the pressure in the hose, each adapter including an actuator for actuating the respective valve operator; closing the downstream valve; slowly opening the upstream valve to provide increasing gas pressure to the external relief valve to the point of discharge of the external relief valve; and recording the pressure indicated on the pressure gauge at the point of discharge of the external relief valve.","The details of one or more embodiments of the presently-disclosed subject matter are set forth in this document. Modifications to embodiments described in this document, and other embodiments, will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the information provided in this document. The information provided in this document, and particularly the specific details of the described exemplary embodiments, is provided primarily for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. In case of conflict, the specification of this document, including definitions, will control.","While the following terms are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, the following definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently-disclosed subject matter.","Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the presently-disclosed subject matter belongs. Although any methods, devices, and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently-disclosed subject matter, representative methods, devices, and materials are now described.","Following long-standing patent law convention, the terms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d, and \u201cthe\u201d refer to \u201cone or more\u201d when used in this application, including the claims. Thus, for example, reference to \u201ca valve\u201d includes a plurality of such valves, and so forth.","As used herein, the term \u201cfitting\u201d means a device for providing access or connection to a fuel gas system.","The presently-disclosed subject matter includes a fitting for use in fuel gas systems and applications using the same.","Referring to , there is shown a portion of an exemplary fuel gas system  where an exemplary fitting  is utilized, including a first valve  for controlling a flow of fuel gas from a main supply line , a regulator  for regulating a pressure of fuel gas from the first valve , a meter  for measuring an amount of fuel gas utilized by a customer system , and a second valve  for controlling the flow of fuel gas from the meter . In typical use, an actuator in a mating adapter screws onto the fitting , which depresses a valve core  of the fitting , described in more detail below, thereby allowing access into the system without tools and without the problems of the prior art fittings described above.","Optionally, the first valve  of the fuel gas system  may include a bypass port , providing access to the fuel gas of the main supply line  when the first valve  is closed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 12"],"b":["200","202","202","210","200","210","202","202","210","302","302","416","416"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b ","a","b ","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 13","FIG. 1","FIG. 13","FIG. 4"],"b":["302","302","318","319","100","302","320","321","302","302","322","302","322","302"]},"Preferably, the maintenance to be performed on meters and regulators is performed during the summer months, when fuel gas demand in a residential application is generally limited to water heater usage and, potentially, to a stove\/range, both of which applications require substantially less usage, even combined, than the capabilities described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["416","302"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["416","302","427","416","319","321","302","416"]},"Referring to , , and , in use, the valve core  is received within the bore  of the fitting body  via threads  that mate with threads  (i.e., a valve receiving means) in the interior of the 7\/16-20 UNF thread attachment section . The valve core  includes a positive stop feature  that seats in a portion of the bore that \u201cnecks down\u201d to 0.176\u2033 (which still provides a flow of fuel gas capable of supplying at least 120,000\/280,000 (natural gas\/propane gas) BTUs, as discussed above). In use, the central pin  (i.e., a valve operator) of the valve core  pushes a washer  away from a body  of the valve core , allowing a fluid connection between the first end  and the second end  of the fitting body  through the inside of the valve core . The washer  comprises Viton\u00ae fluoroelastomer, or the like, for enabling use of the valve core  in fuel gas systems (natural gas and propane gas).","According to one application, an appropriate gauge for a system to be tested is attached to the fitting (e.g., , fitting ) using an adapter that screws onto the fitting (, fitting ) by hand without the use of tools. The pressure gauge includes an actuator for depressing (actuating) the valve core (e.g., , valve core ) and allowing the gauge the detect the pressure of a pressurized fuel gas system (e.g., , fuel gas system ) (i.e., exposing the pressure gauge to the pressure of the system). Then, a valve (e.g., , first valve  or second valve ) upstream of the fitting is closed. If there are no leaks in the system downstream of the valve, the gauge will indicate that the system is holding pressure. Otherwise, the system will not hold pressure and the gauge will indicate falling pressure or no pressure once the gas in the system has escaped through the leak and the pressure of the system has equalized with the pressure outside of the system.","Advantageously, the fitting (e.g., , fitting ) allows, without tools, leak testing of a system and using the same fitting as for pressure testing of the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["510","512","514","512","512","516","514","510","518","516","520","520","510","522","510","524","510","102","100"]},"In some embodiments, a conventional regulator, denoted , is provided to control the pressure of the gas delivered from the cylinder  so as to ensure that the pressure is adequate for testing purposes, as described in more detail below.","Considering some of the components of assembly  in more detail, in general, portable cylinder  can comprise any portable cylinder capable of containing a compressed gas. The term \u201ccompressed gas\u201d is used herein to refer to any compressed gas, including both flammable and inert gases, that are suitable for testing fuel gas systems. Examples of such gases include, but are not limited to, natural gas, propane, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, butane, argon, propylene, air, fluorocarbons such as refrigerants, and helium. Typically, connector  is an integral outlet port that forms part of the portable cylinder  so as to provide access to the compressed gas.","The control valve  is located downstream to control flow of the compressed gas from the portable cylinder  to the fuel gas system. In exemplary embodiments, the control valve can comprise a conventional valve such as a needle valve, a shutoff valve, or a ball valve.","The bleeder valve  is used to selectively \u201cbleed off\u201d some of the pressure, i.e., to reduce pressure in the system downstream of the bleeder valve  to a value below the designed working pressures of gas regulators so that a test instrument device, such as a gauge, water manometer, or other suitable instrument, can communicate with, i.e., is used to measure parameters associated with, the complete gas system.","The instrument fitting  is installed in the assembly  so as to enable the test instrument device G to be attached to the assembly  and used to obtain pressure readings used to perform leak and pressure tests. In some embodiments, the instrument fitting  includes first and second inline openings such that the instrument fitting  can be connected in line in the assembly  between one or more components of the assembly, and a third opening located between the first and second openings adapted to receive the test instrument device G that monitors pressure in the fuel system. In one preferred embodiment, instrument fitting  comprises a Presto-Tap TPF fitting available from Presto-Tap LLC of Greenville, Miss.","As indicated above, the connector or adaptor  is used to connect the assembly to a compatible fitting (e.g., , fitting ) installed in the fuel gas system so as to provide communication between the fuel gas system and the assembly  and thus enable a user to perform such functions as determining the presence of gas, to determining the pressure in the system, and\/or pressurizing the system from the portable cylinder assembly  to facilitate the detection of a leak. In one preferred embodiment, the connector  comprises a Presto-Tap RV-QA and is used to make connection to a Presto-Tap RV valve that has been previously installed in the gas system at the desired location.","As stated previously, in some embodiments the regulator  is employed for controlling pressure of the gas output from the portable cylinder . The regulator  is capable of delivering a pressure that is adequate for testing fuel gas systems at the designed working pressure of the fuel gas system at a the desired test location (e.g., 7\u2033 WC, 11\u2033 WC, 10 psi, and 30 psi and the static pressure of the compressed gas in cylinder ). This enables pressure testing and leak testing to be carried out prior to the initial service connection to a gas supply.","The assembly  described above can be used with a number of different fuel gas systems, including any domestic or industrial gas system utilizing vapor that can be isolated from a fuel supply at the supply source (e.g., a gas main or a propane tank). Such fuel gas systems include, but are not limited to, residential gas systems, industrial gas systems, commercial gas systems, engines powered by gas, manufactured homes containing a fuel gas system, and recreational vehicles containing a fuel gas system.","A method for detecting leaks in a fuel gas system in accordance with an embodiments of the invention comprises providing a leak detection assembly according to one or more embodiments described above; attaching the assembly to a fuel gas system; pressurizing the fuel gas system to a desired pressure by opening and closing a control valve of the assembly; and using a detecting device fitted to the assembly to detect any decrease in pressure, thereby indicating a leak in the fuel gas system.","In some embodiments of the leak detecting method, the method includes first ensuring that any inlets for the fuel gas supply are closed. In these embodiments, the assembly  is attached to the fuel gas system (e.g., , fuel gas system ) by the connector or adaptor  and the control valve  is opened and then closed. When this is done, the system is thereby pressurized from the portable cylinder  to a desired pressure. After releasing a recommended amount of pressure depending on the application, using the bleeder valve , the pressure of the complete system, including the fuel gas system and the assembly , is then observed, using the test instrument device G received in fitting , for any increases or decreases in pressure readings. This is done for a period of time sufficient to satisfy any Federal, State, and Local codes for the particular industry regulatory authority. In general, an increase in observed pressure indicates that the fuel gas system is being fed by a pressure source while a decrease in pressure indicates that there is a leak in the fuel gas system, which can then be located and repaired.","Returning to , as previously indicated, the first exemplary fitting and the second exemplary fitting are positioned on either side of the meter  to allow access into the system  for differential pressure testing of the meter .","Advantageously, the exemplary fitting (e.g., , fitting ), or a fitting having a bore smaller than 13\/64 inch (since this application only requires detecting pressures on either side of the meter ), provides ease of use, allowing the differential pressure testing of the meter  to be conducted without the use of tools, probes, safety glasses, or gloves, and eliminates any possibility that a lubricated probe could \u201cblow out\u201d and potentially cause injury.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","102","510","100","110","108","600","628","630","628","632","628","634","630","632","636","628","630","638","636","632","630"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["600","628","630","640","634","636","638"]},"Referring now to , , and , the portable cylinder assembly  is used with the core removal tool  to supply fuel gas to the fuel gas system  while maintenance is performed, such as meter and regulator replacement, according to the following sequence of steps.","In a first step, a gauge is attached directly to the fitting  to determine an operating pressure of the system to be serviced. This gauge is then removed.","Then, a regulator  having the appropriate operating pressure characteristics is connected to the compressed gas cylinder  (i.e., an alternate fuel supply) to provide adequate pressure to operate the system. Alternatively, if the first valve  includes a bypass port , the compressed gas cylinder  can be removed from the portable cylinder assembly  and the connector  attached directly to the bypass port  for using gas from the main supply  (i.e., acting as an alternate fuel supply) for supplying the system.","Then, the connector  of the portable cylinder assembly  is attached to the fuel supply receiving port  of the core removal tool , and the control valve  is opened to purge air out of the portable cylinder assembly .","Then, the core removal tool  is connected to the fitting , located downstream of the second valve  and downstream of the regulator  and the meter . The ball valve  on the core removal tool  is opened, and the reading of the gauge G is recorded.","With the ball valve  in the open position, the core  of the fitting  is removed from the fitting , allowing the portable cylinder assembly  to communicate with the fuel gas system  fully without restriction. The ball valve  is closed after the core  is retracted in the core removal tool  past the ball valve .","Then, the gauge G is observed for any changes.","With the fuel gas system  pressurized by compressed gas cylinder  or by gas from the main supply line , the second valve  is closed, thereby isolating the fuel gas system  from the meter  and the regulator .","The meter  and regulator  can now be removed and replaced while the fuel gas system  is supplied by the compressed gas cylinder  such that the customer system  remains pressurized, supplied, and operational (albeit at a functionality limited to the supply quantity, if used, of the compressed gas cylinder  e.g., nominal appliance burners and pilot lights, etc.).","Advantageously, as discussed above, the 13\/64 inch bore  through the fitting body  will support 120,000 BTUs at 12\u2033 water column through the fitting body  with the valve core  removed.","After replacement of the meter  and the regulator , prior to tightening a swivel downstream of the meter, the first valve , which is located upstream of the regulator , is turned on to purge any air out of the fuel gas system  to that point. Then the bleeder valve  is opened on the portable cylinder assembly  to purge the remainder of the air from the fuel gas system  downstream of the first valve .","Then, the core  is replaced in the fitting  and the core removal tool is disconnected from the fitting .","The gauge can then be re-attached directly to the fitting , and a final system pressure reading taken and recorded.","A brass cap with a copper seal (not shown) is then placed on the fitting  and tightened.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["600","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["638","116"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1202","1200","1206","1204","1205","1208","1202","1207","1208","1202","1209","1210","1208","1214","1210","1202","1214"],"i":["a ","b ","c "]},"In use, a hose assembly  including a hose, adapters , on each end, and a pressure gauge G is connected between the first fitting and the second fitting . The downstream valve  is closed, and the upstream valve  is slowly opened. The pressure at which the relief valve  opens is then recorded. Advantageously, the testing method can be performed without breaking the system, and without tools (the quick adapters , are screwed on\/off by hand), plugs, safety glasses, or gloves. When finished, the upstream valve  is closed, the downstream valve  is opened, the hose assembly  is detached, and caps (not shown) are replaced on the fittings , ","The portable cylinder assembly , minus the portable cylinder  could be used as the hose assembly  above, wherein the pressure gauge G is used to record the pressure at which the relief valve  opens.","It is noted that the first fitting could be placed directly in the system  without the use of the upstream valve , and the main gas valve  could be closed and then slowly opened to provide high pressure gas for testing the relief valve , or the control valve  of the portable cylinder assembly  could be used to slowly increase the gas pressure applied to the relief valve  until it reaches the point of discharge.","It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings, where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
