---
title: Systems and methods for handling a plurality of communications for different companies
abstract: A distributed communication center configured to handle a plurality of communications includes a user zone, a web zone, and a network zone. The user zone includes a plurality of remote terminals that enable communication center personnel and end users to remotely interface with the distributed communication center through the web zone. The web zone includes one or more web servers configured and one or more mail servers to interface the remote terminals in the user zone with the network zone. The network zone includes one or more telephony servers and one or more application servers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549107&OS=08549107&RS=08549107
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08549107
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110506
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a divisional application of and claims priority under 35 USC \u00a7120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/233,152, filed Aug. 28, 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,962,644, by Ran Ezerzer et al. and entitled \u201cSYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR HANDLING A PLURALITY OF COMMUNICATIONS,\u201d which claims priority under 35 USC \u00a7119 to Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/379,955, entitled \u201cResilient Real-Time Internet Communications,\u201d filed May 10, 2002; Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/365,890, entitled \u201cCall Center Implementation,\u201d filed Mar. 18, 2002; and Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/405,719, entitled \u201cCall Center Implementation,\u201d filed Aug. 23, 2002, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth in full.","1. Field of the Inventions","The field of the invention relates generally to communication networks and more particularly to the routing and handling of a plurality of communications based on a variety of factors.","2. Background Information","In today's communication age, a variety of what used to be face-to-face transactions now occur remotely via the telephone, email, or some other electronic communication medium. As a result, large organizations must be able to communicate with their customers or constituents in a variety of ways, e.g., via telephone, email, fax, the Internet, etc. This places a tremendous burden on such organizations to handle the communications in an efficient, effective, and reliable manner. Failure to do so can be very costly. For example, organizations that fail to optimally manage their communications can incur increased costs in dealing with the communications or lost business due to their unresponsiveness. Thus, it is very important that organizations handle their communications as effectively as possible.","Organizations with more than trivial customer communication needs, for example, typically use call centers to handle the communications and to organize their sales and service teams. A conventional call center comprises a telephony server configured to receive a plurality of incoming telephone calls that are routed to various operators, or agents, for handling. The call routing is often under the control of a software application and, therefore, is accomplished via some amount of computer automation. A simple example would be a software program that routes an incoming call to the next available agent. More complex software can, for example, be configured to screen incoming communications, forward them to agents with appropriate skills, and maintain records related to the handling of the incoming communication.","Thus, when an incoming communication is received by the call center it is routed to an appropriate agent. The agent necessarily must have the appropriate equipment to handle the communication. For example, if the incoming communication is a telephone call, then the agent should have telephone equipment to handle the call. In addition, the agents often have some type of computer terminal or monitor interfaced with the call center on which they can receive information related to the incoming communication or with which they can access relevant information for handling the incoming communication. For example, the terminal can display an originating telephone number associated with an incoming telephone call. The terminal may also be used to access account information for the caller.","A conventional call center, therefore, generally comprises a telephony server configured to receive and route incoming communications, an application server interfaced with the telephony server and configured to run applications for automating the call routing, and a plurality of agents interfaced with the telephony server via communications handling equipment and possibly some type of data terminal. There are actually three types of personnel who typically interface with a conventional call center: 1) the agents who handle the incoming communications; 2) supervisors who monitor and assist agents; and 3) administrators who install and configure software and hardware necessary to handle the incoming communications.","A conventional call center can be very expensive because it must house all of the call center personnel and associated call handling equipment and terminals as well as the telephony and applications servers. The centralized nature of conventional call centers can have another negative consequence as well, in that a single failure or error can bring down all or a substantial portion of the call center. Down time can have a severe negative impact because a call center is often the main point of communication between a large organization and its customers or constituents. Even a brief interruption can result in numerous missed communications. Accordingly, it is important that a call center be highly reliable in order to prevent significant service interruption.","A distributed communication center configured to handle a plurality of communications includes a user zone, a web zone, and a network zone. The user zone includes a plurality of remote terminals that enable communication center personnel to remotely interface with the distributed communication center through the web zone. The web zone includes a web server configured to interface the remote terminals in the user zone with the network zone. The network zone includes one or more telephony servers and application servers.","In one aspect, communication center personnel interface with the distributed communication center remotely using a remote terminal and a simple, commonly available browser. The remote communication center personnel can download customized applications to their terminal if required. Alternatively, their terminal can already comprise any customized applications required. Accordingly, communication center resources can be distributed in a manner that can reduce costs and lead to more efficient handling of greater amounts of communications.","These and other features, aspects, and embodiments of the invention are described below in the section entitled \u201cDetailed Description of the Preferred Embodiemnts.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","128","128"]},"Call center  is interfaced with a plurality of remote sites, of which remote sites  and  are shown by way of example. Call center  is interfaced with remote sites  and  via one or more communication networks. In the example embodiment of , call center  is interfaced with remote sites  and  via a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)  and the Internet . But networks  or  can also be, for example, any type of Wide Area Network (WAN), such as a wireless WAN, or some form of smaller Local Area Network (LAN).","Call center  comprises a telephony server  interfaced with PSTN . Telephony server  is configured to receive a plurality of incoming telephony communications. Call center  also comprises an applications server , interfaced with telephony server , that is configured to manage the operation of call center . Additionally, call center  can comprise a plurality of local terminals  interfaced with telephony server  and configured to receive the incoming telephony communications. For example, terminals  can be telephones or fax terminals.","Application server  can be configured to make intelligent decisions as to which agent should handle a particular incoming communication received by telephony server , or by web server  as described below, and then control servers  and  such that the incoming communication is routed to the appropriate terminal. Alternatively, application server  can be configured to control the operation of call center  such that the agent selected to handle a particular incoming communication is placed in contact with the associated customer, although not necessarily at the time the incoming communication is received. This is described more fully below.","Application server , telephony server , web server , and terminals  and  can be interconnected via some type of LAN, especially for implementations where all of the above components are housed in a control location such as a single building or a campus location. But as described below, some or all of the components can be geographically distributed in which case some type of WAN may be needed to interface some or all of the components that comprise call center .","Unlike conventional call centers, call center  also comprise web server  interfaced with the Internet  and configured to receive a plurality of incoming web-based or Internet communications. Web server  enables call center  to receive non-telephony communications, e.g., emails, which extends the capability of call center  and provides greater flexibility to the customers accessing call center . Thus, there can be a plurality of local terminals , e.g., computer terminals, interfaced with web server  and configured to handle, under the control of application server , the incoming web based communications. Terminals  can also be configured to display information related to the incoming communication or access information related to the customer associated with the incoming communication.","While, in the example of , server  is a web server interfaced with the Internet , network  can, in general, be any type of data network, and server  can be any type of associated data server. For example, server  can be any type of packet based data server, as opposed to the more traditional circuit switched servers associated with PSTN  and the like.","By including web server , call center  can actually be configured to handle a variety of incoming communications. The incoming communications can be any of a plurality of communication types using a plurality of communication protocols. Each different type of communication and\/or protocol requires specific resources and methods to handle the communication. Some example communication types can be telephone calls, facsimile (fax) transmissions, emails, or Internet communications such as World Wide Web (web) based contacts. For the purposes of this specification and the claims that follow all of the different possible types of communications are generically referred to using the term \u201ccommunications.\u201d Although it should be noted, that other similar generic terms, such as \u201cinteractions,\u201d \u201ccontacts,\u201d or \u201ccalls\u201d can be used to refer to the different types of communications handled by a conventional call center, the one term \u201ccommunications\u201d is used herein for clarity and consistency.","The inclusion of web server  also makes it easier to geographically distribute call center personnel at remote locations, such as remote sites  and . This is because a simple web browser can be used to interface with call center . Call center personnel can, therefore, be located at remote site , for example, which comprises a terminal  configured to access web server . Terminal  can, for example, be a computer, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), or any other device configured to access the Internet . Thus, the agents, supervisors, and administrators associated with call center  can effectively perform their roles from anywhere in the world as long as there is access to the Internet .","Terminal  can be configured to handle incoming web-based communications under the control of application server . Terminals  can also be configured to access relevant information for handling the incoming communications. Remote site  can also comprise a terminal  interfaced with call center  via PSTN . Accordingly, an agent located at remote site  can handle any type of communication received by call center  just as though the agent were located at call center . Call center  can, therefore, be configured to receive an incoming communication either via the Internet  or PSTN  and then route that communication, under the control of application server  to an agent at a remote site, e.g., remote site , for handling. the agent can then use terminal  and\/or terminal  to handle the communications.","Accordingly, the systems and methods described enable the configuration of a distributed communication center that can route any form of communication to any communication center personnel over packet or circuit switched networks, regardless of the location of the personnel, while providing the same functionality and visibility as if they were located in a centralized communication center . Such distribution of the call center functionality is enabled by the inclusion of web server  and the fact that web server  can be easily accessed from a remote site  without the need for complex or expensive equipment. All that is required, for example, is a terminal  with an appropriate web browser.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["234","234","200","202","204","200","206","212","230","206","212","200","210","208","210","210","234"]},"Web zone  comprises a web server  and can also comprise a mail server , although the functionality of the two types of servers can be combined into one physical server. Customers and communication center personnel can connect with web server  and\/or mail server  through the Internet . Web server  can be configured to handle web-based communications generated by the customers or communication center personnel, while mail server  can be configured to handle email communications. Servers  and  can be interfaced with network zone  through a firewall  for security and network protection. Similarly, servers  and  can be interfaced with user zone  through a firewall .","User zone  comprises a plurality of remote sites, of which remote site  is shown by way of example. Communication center personnel can access web zone  or network zone  from remote site . More specifically, remote site  comprises the terminal equipment that can be used to access network zone , e.g., terminal  from , and web zone , e.g., terminal  from . In order to effectively access network zone  and web zone , the data terminal, i.e., terminal , located at remote site  can be loaded with one or more customized applications. For example, a communication center administrator can have an administration manager application  loaded on his terminal; a supervisor can have a supervision manager application  loaded on his terminal; and an agent can have an interaction manager application  loaded on his terminal. Example functionality of such customized applications is discussed in more detail below.","In addition to any customized applications, a browser application can also be loaded on to a communication center personnel's terminal  to enable contact with web zone . Thus, for example, the communication center personnel, e.g., an agent, can access web server  from a remote location  using the browser application. Once the agent has accessed web server , they can \u201clogon\u201d identifying themselves as an agent. Application server  can then direct web server  to direct the agent's browser to access a web page from which the agent can download a customized interaction manager application  for handling customer communications. Interaction manger application  can then, for example configure the agent's terminal  to display information related to handled communications within certain \u201cwindows\u201d on the Agent's terminal, or it can enable the agent to access web pages on web server  that display certain information.","In one example embodiment, scripts or Java applets stored on web server  can be used to download the applications. Similarly, once downloaded, the applications can cause a script or Java applet to run that installs the application on terminal  and\/or configures terminal  to run the application.","It should be noted that customers can interface with communication center  from customer location  in much the same manner as the remote communication center personnel. In other words, referring back to , remote site  can actually represent a customer location. Thus, the customer can, for example, use a telephone or fax terminal  to send communications via PSTN  to communication center . Alternatively, a customer can use a data terminal , such as a computer, to send communications, e.g., an email, through the Internet . Terminal  can also be used to access a web page on web server  using a web browser, for example. This ability allows communication center  to handled a variety of non-call center and non-telephony communications. For example, communication center  can be configured to handle on-line credit verification, ordering of goods and services, reservation booking, to name just a few.","The ability to connect to communication center  using the Internet , or more generically packet communications, enables the use of standardized communication protocols that are widely available, which avoids the need to use customized or proprietary protocols. For example, Internet Protocols (IP), such as Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP), can be used by customers or communication center personnel to access web server . IP allows web browsers to communicate with web server  using Hyper-Text Transfer protocol (HTTP), which is commonly used and commonly available. Therefore, these various protocols can reduce implementation and maintenance costs.","From a security standpoint, it can actually be preferable to use Hyper-Text Transfer Protocol\/Secure (HTTP\/S), which allows for secure communications using encryption and third party verification authorities or organizations. Such security ensures that only a desired and secure web server  sends information, e.g., web pages, to communication center personnel and customer web browsers. Further, \u201cfingerprinting\u201d methodologies, such as those offered by Verisign, Inc., can be used to ensure that only a desired and secure web browser can request information from web server .","TCP\/IP, HTTP, and HTTP\/s are just examples of some widely accepted protocols currently used in communication networks. These example should not, however, be seen as limiting the systems and methods described herein to any particular type of protocol",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["202","236","302","216","304","216","216"]},"Once the remote personnel has provided the identifying information, web server  should be able to classify them, e.g., as an agent, supervisor, administrator, or as a customer when it is a customer accessing web server . Once the remote personnel is classified, web server  can be configured to download any necessary applications, such as administration manager application , supervision manager application , or interaction manager application . Alternatively, web server  can be configured to direct the remote personnel to a web page from which they can download any requisite applications.","From a resource perspective, any applications running on the remote personnel's terminal are preferably small footprint applications. For example, this not only makes it easier and faster to download them if necessary, but it also reduces the resource requirements, e.g., memory and processing power, of the remote terminals. This allows the use of thin-client terminals at remote location  and customer location .","Alternatively, the remote personnel's terminal can already comprise all the necessary applications. In this case, web server  can be configured to determine, in step , if any application updates, i.e., new versions, have been generated since the application version loaded on the accessing terminal. If the answer is yes, then web server  can be configured to upload the updates, in step , to the accessing terminal, or direct the terminal to a web page from which the updates can be downloaded.","The ability to download applications or updates reduces deployment and maintenance costs because a technician does not need to be dispatched to each remote location  to configure each remote terminal. Similarly, applications or updates do not need to be mailed or distributed to remote communication personnel or customers. Rather, all that is required is a standard widely distributed browser or similar application.","After an application has been downloaded in step , or updates uploaded in step , the accessing terminal can be configured to run the application, in step . In other words, once a new or updated application is loaded on the terminal, the terminal needs to be configured to run the application. This can be accomplished, for example, by \u201crebooting\u201d the terminal, or through a self-configuration of the terminal triggered by the download\/upload, e.g., using scripts or Java applets.","The applications downloaded to the accessing terminal allow the terminal to receive certain information and\/or resources related to the communications being handled by application server , and\/or to perform certain functions in response to the received information\/resources. There can also be settings associated with receiving the information\/resources, such as how it is received, when it is received, or what specifically is received. Some of these settings are discussed in more detail below; however, in step  a decision can be made as to whether any such settings need to be configured now that the terminal has been configured to run the downloaded application in step . If the answer is yes, then in step  the terminal can access web server , using the web browser or one of the downloaded applications, and configure the settings in step .","Once the settings are configured, or if they do not need to be configured, then in step  the accessing terminal can begin receiving information related to communications being handled by application server . And, in step , the remote personnel or customer can then respond accordingly. For example, if the remote personnel is an agent, then he can begin receiving, under the direction of application server , for example, email communications sent in from customers through mail server . The agent can then respond to the emails if required, e.g., if the emails are product inquiries, then the agent can respond to the inquiries. If on the other hand, the remote personnel is a supervisor, then he can begin to receive information about the communications being handled by agents connected with web zone  and\/or network zone . In certain embodiments, a supervisor can even download applications that allow them to see an agent's \u201cdesktop\u201d in real-time. This functionality can be built into supervision manager application , or it can, for example, be a separate application such as a proxy remote gateway system application.","Applications, such as administration manager application , supervisor manager application , and interaction manger application , allow the remote communication center personnel to handle communications received by communication center  from remote locations regardless of what type of communication it is, i.e., whether it is received via the interne  or PSTN . For example, interaction manger application  can enable an agent to respond to incoming communications as if the agent were sitting in a centralized call center . An example screen shot of a Graphical User Interface (GUI)  that can be associated with interaction manager application  is shown in . Thus, for example, interaction manager application  can be configured to display GUI  on terminal .","GUI  can be used to respond to a variety of communication types. For example, once an agent has accessed web server  and is connected within communication center , application server  can start directing emails received through mail server  to the agent. The agent can then view information related to the received emails in his GUI  display, for example, in a multimedia interaction control window . The agent can then respond to a received email communication via email. Alternatively, the agent an place a telephone call to the email sender if the sender's contact information is available.","Contact information, entered by a customer when they access communication center , can be displayed in GUI , e.g., in a portion of multimedia interaction control window . Additionally, in some embodiments, the agent can access information related to the sender, such as account or contact history. For example, a resource bar  can be included in GUI  that allow the agent to click on a button or indicator to access certain information related to the sender.","If the agent is going to place a telephone call, then the agent can, for example, place the call through PSTN , using a conventional telephone, e.g., terminal . Alternately, interaction manager application  can include a dialer application that enables the agent to use a terminal , equipped with the appropriate audio input, output, and processing, like a telephone. Such a dialer application can display a separate dialer screen, or the dialer screen can be incorporated into GUI . In the example of , GUI  does in fact include a dialer interface .","Thus, upon receiving an email requiring a response, the agent can for example, use dialer interface  to place a call to the sender. In order to place voice communications over the Internet , or any packet based network, a technology known as Voice over IP (VoIP) can be required. Accordingly, communication center  should be capable of handling VoIP if a dialer application is included in interaction manager application .","The call placed to the sender can be handled in a variety of manners. Often, the agent is connected via VoIP to network zone  and from network zone  to the sender via PSTN . In this case, network zone  should comprise the resources needed to convert between circuit switched communication and VoIP. If, on the other hand, the sender is capable of VoIP communication, then the connection can be purely VoIP through Internet .","Similarly, instead of an email communication, the incoming communication routed to the agent can be a telephone communication. The telephone communication can be a traditional circuit switched communication or a VoIP communication. If it is a circuit switch telephone communication, then communication center  can be configured to convert it to VoIP so that the agent can handle the communication using his dialer application. Alternatively, communication center  can be configured to route the call to the agent via PSTN  and the agent can handle the call using a traditional telephone. In the latter situation, the agent should still receive and be able to access information related to the call using GUI .","Other example types of communications that can be received\/handled using interaction manger  are faxes, voice mails, and Internet chat sessions. Some or all of these can be handled directly using interaction manger application  via GUI  or a separate display screen. For example, an exemplary Internet chat session managing screen  is depicted in . Some or all of the different types of communications handled by communication center  can be processed\/re-encoded by communication center  as they pass through network zone , as with the VoIP-to-circuit switch and circuit switch-to-VoIP processing described above. The processing\/re-encoding does not necessarily need to take place in real time. For example, a fax transmission can be received over PSTN  and stored electronically, e.g., in databases . The stored fax data can then be forwarded as an email to an agent through mail server .","Similarly, the routing of an incoming communication to an agent does not necessarily need to be done in real-time. Clearly, in the case of email communications, the emails can be gathered and forwarded periodically. With telephone communications, whether circuit switched or VoIP, the incoming telephone call can be received, the request or needs of the caller determined, and the call disconnected. An appropriate agent can be selected and separate communications can be established between the original caller and the agent. Once established, the two communications can be bridged so that the agent is now in direct contact with the original caller.","It should be kept in mind, however, that while the routing may not be real-time, the communications between agent and caller is a real-time communication once it is established. Thus, if VoIP technology is used, there must be mechanisms in place to ensure that the real-time communications are not disrupted. While this is not an easy task due to the nature of packet networks and packet communications, it can be done. Systems and methods for ensuring the real-time packet based communications are not disrupted are presented below. It should also be kept in mind, that while routing of communications may not be in real-time, there should be no additional delay introduced in the handling of communications that is due to the distributed nature of communication center . On the contrary, communication handling will often be sped up or made easier due to the availability of more agents and more ways to effectively communicate with communication center .","More agents can be made available, because the distributed nature of communication center  makes it easy to have a large number of agents connected. Further, the cost of having those agents connect is relatively low because they are not housed in a central location. Further, the thin client nature of the applications running on the remote communication personnel's terminals, the ease of distributing the applications and any updates, and the wide availability of the basic, i.e., browser, technology used to access web server , reduce the cost of establishing and maintaining communication center  and all of its remote sites . The reduced cost, therefore, also makes it easier to make more resources, e.g., agents, available to customers.","Returning to , it can be seen that a number of other resources and options are available to an agent through GUI . First, there is a status area  in which, for example, status concerning handled communications can be displayed. The status of the actual agent can also be displayed in the status area . In certain embodiments, remote agents can configure their availability using interaction manager application . The availability, as configured by each agent, can then be used in communication routing as described in detail below. Thus, the agents can preferably configure their status such that they are available or unavailable to receive new communications. The agents can also, depending on the embodiment, accept or deny communications routed to them, mute the communications on the agent's end, record the communications, put a caller on hold, transfer a caller, send a telephone call into voicemail, etc. The agent can also, for example check for received emails, voicemails, or faxes. One or more options toolbars can be incorporated into GUI  to aid in these types of activities. In the example of , area  comprises an options toolbar  and a personal options toolbar .","An example screen shot of a GUI  that can be associated with supervision manager application  is shown in . Thus, for example, supervision manager  can be configured to display GUI  on terminal . As can be seen, GUI  can comprise a login screen . A supervisor can be required to input identifying information (step  from ) before being able to access communication center resources using supervision manager application . Once a supervisor is logged-on, then the supervisor should be able to monitor agent handling of communications. A supervisor can, for example, monitor all agents handling communications received by network zone  and\/or web zone , or some subset of agents. For example, if more than one company is hosted by communication center , then a supervisor can be allowed to monitor agents handling communications for only certain companies. Hosting is a concept that is discussed more fully below.","An agent status bar  can be included in GUI  from which the supervisor can perform different task related to his supervisory function. The status bar can be used to access functions, incorporated into, or separate from, supervision manager application  that allow the supervisor to listen in on telephone calls being handled by certain agents, coach certain agents as they handle communications, or join in the handling of certain communications.","For telephone communications, the coaching function preferably allows the agent to hear instructions from the supervisor but prevents the customer from hearing the supervisor. For non-telephone communications, the coaching function can simply allow the supervisor to send messages, e.g., emails, to the agent. Alternatively, the supervisor can just step in and respond to a non-telephone communication, i.e., join in the handling of the communication.","Other functions that can be accessed from agent status bar  can include a function that allows the supervisor to view non-telephone communication handling or even take control of an agent's screen, send messages to agents or customers, chat with agents or customers, broadcast a message to all agents and\/or supervisors, or some subset of agents and\/or supervisors, log-out agents so that they must contact the supervisor to log back in, capture an image of an agent's screen, record an agent's conversation, whether verbal or electronic, and search from a database, e.g., one of databases , of previously recorded conversations, to name just a few. Supervision manager application  can be configured to display information related to these and other functions in display area  of GUI .","GUI  can also have a options toolbar  that allows the supervisor to access further functions or resources. GUI  can be configured, for example, to display a different toolbar  depending on which option is selected in options toolbar . Information related to handled communications can also be viewed in status area .","It should be remembered that supervisors can be allowed to act as agents as well; therefore, an interaction manager application  can be incorporated into supervisor manager application . In which case, GUI  can be configured such that the incorporated interaction manager application can be accessed from one of the toolbars included in GUI . Alternatively, a separate interaction manager application  can be loaded on the supervisor's terminal .","A communication center administrator, among other things, can configure application server  to make intelligent communication routing choices that address the business needs of communication center . For example, if a customer calls on a line dedicated to Spanish speaking customers of a car sales company, then application server  can be configured to route that call to an agent assigned to the car sales company and fluent in Spanish. Call routing is discussed more fully below; however, other application server capabilities that can be configured by a communication center administrator include defining agent profiles. An agent profile can specify skills, access rights, workgroup, supervisor, etc. and can be used in the routing of communications. A workgroup can be a group of agents working on the same type of communications, e.g., communications associated with a particular company hosted by communication center . A communication center administrator can also configure business rules for implementing certain communication routing strategies, touch tone menus to deliver communications to agents, workgroups, or some other entity, menu prompts, such as hold music or ring tones. A communication center administrator can also enable communication center  to collect customer information in touch tone menus, allow callers to listen to an estimated wait time, permit customers to request an automotive call-back, allow callers to leave voice mail messages for agents or workgroups, and manage the communication center's service level.","Service level management can include running real-time reports spanning from agent level to a global view of all activity occurring in communication center . A communication center administrator can also configure communication center  to re-send communications, such as emails or fax transmissions, that failed in the first attempt. A communication center administrator can also set call routing priorities based on the type of communication, urgency or importance of the communication or the customer generating the communications, and can configure overflow procedures when an agent or workgroup is inundated with more communications than it can handle.","Of course, all of the activities performed by a communication center administrator can be performed from a remote location using administration manger application . The ability to remotely configure application server  can increase response time, and reduce costs, because administrators do not need to be on site.","An example screen shot of a GUI  that can be associated with administration manager application  is shown in . GUI  can include an options toolbar  configured to allow the administrator to remotely access information, resources, or functions used to configure application server  by selecting one of the options in options toolbar . In the example of , GUI  also includes a display area  in which administration manager  can be configured to display information and controls related to the options selected in options toolbar . GUI  can also have a status bar configured to display information such as information related to the specific customer for which the administrator is configuring the functioning of application server .","For purposes of illustration, the functional organization of applications that can be loaded on a web server, such as web server , is described in the following paragraphs in conjunction with .  illustrates another embodiment of a distributed communication center  that includes a web server  in a web zone . Web server  and web zone  can be similar to web server  and web zone  from ; however, it should be remembered that due to the distributed nature of communication center , web server  can be located anywhere, i.e., web server  does not necessarily need to be housed in the same location as network zone .","In one specific implementation, web server  can comprise a Sun Microsystems, Inc. computer loaded with the following software: A) Off-the-shelf web server software, such as BEA Systems, Inc.'s WebLogic\u00ae product; B) GUI applications, such as those illustrated in , , and , that can be downloaded from web server ; and C) other software and applications, some of which are described in the following paragraphs. This other software and applications can include \u201cservlets,\u201d which are software applications that can be used to extend the capabilities of web server , such that web server  can, for example, be a real-time communications link between communication center personnel terminal , or customer terminals, and telephony server  and application server  of communication center .","As can be seen in , web server  can be interfaced with a remote terminal  through the Internet , and to network zone  through a LAN , which can be a wired or wireless LAN. Alternatively, LAN  can be replaced by some form of WAN including a wireless WAN, depending on the implementation and degree of distribution of communication center .","Web server  can comprise a plurality of functional applications, including:","1) a user session handler application , described in more detail in , which can be configured to authenticate attempts to remotely utilize communication center  resources;","2) a real-time user state transmission application , described in more detail in , which can be configured to relay the state of remote terminal  to telephony server  and application server ;","3) a real-time user state reception application , described in more detail in , which can be configured to relay the state of telephony server  and application server  to remote terminal ;","4) a non-real-time system state transmission\/reception application , described in more detail in , which can be configured to relay status for non-real-time communications to\/from administration manager  through a database interface application  to\/from a system database server , and through a FTP interface application  to\/from a file server ;","5) database interface application , configured to interface remote terminal  with database server ;","6) FTP interface application  configured to interface remote terminal  with file server ;","7) a remote database\/file handler application , described in more detail in , configured to handle database and file requests from remote terminal ; and","8) a bus server application , described in detail in , configured to manage the communication between web server  and the various components comprising network zone . In fact, a bus server application  can be included in each of the components, or hosts, of network zone  as shown in . Bus server application  is described in more detail below.","The applications running on remote terminal , e.g., interaction manager application , supervision manager application , chat manager application , administration manager application , and remote database\/file acquisition manager application , can be configured to communicate with the applications running on web server  through the Internet  using, for example, HTTPS, e.g., on port , and\/or HTTP, e.g., on port . \u201cPorts\u201d are points of entry into or out of a network. Two of the most common ports are, for example, the parallel and serial ports that are included on virtually every computer. Port numbers are often used to define, among other things, the type of resources that can have access to the port, whether the communications that take place through the port are encrypted, etc.","As explained above, it can be necessary for the remote terminal applications to maintain real-time communications with web zone  and network zone . For example, if interaction manager application  is engaged in the management of real-time comrnunications, such as telephone calls or chats, then a real-time control link for the communication is preferred. To maintain such real-time communications, it can be necessary to fnain ta n persistent non-locking connections with web server , An advantage of non-blocking connections to an HTTP port is that they do not need to be reestablished for additional messages to be sent on that port, even if a response from web server  is not received. Moreover, persistent connections can reduce the time it takes to establish connectivity with web server  because each new connection can take as long as 7 seconds, which is unacceptable for a real-time communications system, HTTP Clients such as the one published by Innovation GmbH (Z\u00fcrich, Switzerland) implement most of the relevant parts of the HTTP 1.1 protocol in a persistent non-blocking manner, including such request methods as GET, POST and PUT, and automatic handling of authorization, redirection requests, and cookies, Thus, depending on the application, it can be preferable to use such HTTP Clients in communication center .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["816","816","810","810","830","816","902","830"]},"If a login message is received in step , then in step  user session handler application  can be configured to store user identifying information contained in the login message. Then in step , user session handler application  can be configured to create a user session on web server . In step , information related to the user session can be tracked by user session handler application .","User session handler application  can be configured to continue to track information about the user session until a logout message is received in step . Once a logout message is received in step , then user session handler application  can be configured to tear down the user session in step  and wait for another login message in step . Although, in practice, web server  will often host several concurrent user sessions, therefore, it does not need to end one session before beginning another.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["816","810","830","810","902"]},"It should be noted that the term \u201cuser\u201d is used to refer to the remote communication center personnel, e.g., agents, supervisors, and administrators, who use a terminal  to access web server . In certain instances it can also refer to a customer.","Web server  can be configured to store (step ) the user identifying information in the form of an HTTP object  from which a Proxy Dispatch Handler  can query and extract the user identifying information. For instance, after a user enters his user name, user password, and company alias information at a login Java Server Page (JSP) displayed on terminal , and clicks OK, this information can be sent to the URL of Proxy Dispatch Handler , which can then forward the information to a Proxy Login Handler . Proxy Login Handler  can query databases  through data base interface application  to verify the user identity. In a first query, a company ID for the user can be retrieved. With that information, a second query from Proxy Login Handler  can fetch configuration and other information relevant to that user (e.g. actual user password, what workgroup he belongs to, etc.). Finally, Proxy Login Handler  can be configured to check whether the password provided by the user is correct. If the username, password, and company alias combination provided by the user is not correct, an error message can be displayed on terminal .","If the user identifying information provided checks out, then Proxy Login Handler  can be configured to create a (user) session object  (step ) to track (step ) all relevant user session information while the user session persists. Session object  can, for example, include a unique 64-bit session ID. Web server  can also be configured to keep a web session object  to track information related to each connection with a remote terminal . Web server  can reference the session ID from web session object . A reference is the Java name for the memory address of an object in memory.","When the user requests to logout (step ), a Proxy Logout Handler  can be configured to call a detach process for session object , which effectively destructs session object  (step ) and nullifies the reference to it from web session object . Proxy Logout Handler  can also empty the user's Session Mailbox  (see ), which contains the user's outstanding responses from telephony server  and application server , delete temporary directories, e.g., recordings, emails, prompts, etc., associated with the session, and send a logout message to an Internet Handler function. It can also direct terminal  to a Logout page on web server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"],"b":["820","906","810","820","1102","820","1104","1102","1106","1108","828","802","846","848","1110"]},"The action request message can actually be generated by a customer as well. In which case, the action request can still be extracted and stored in the queue from which it can be retrieved and forwarded to network zone  as required.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"],"b":["820","810","400","600","700","1102","820","830","810"]},"When the user performs an action, on his GUI for example, the user's application can send a POST message with a request object that includes user actions to the URL of a Proxy Action Handler . Web server  can be configured to convert the request object into an HTTP Object . Proxy Action Handler  can then be configured to extract (step ) the action request portion from HTTP Object  and store (step ) it in a Sender Queue  of a Message Sender Object . The stored action request can then be retrieved (step ) by bus server application  and sent (step ) to network zone  as needed.","As mentioned, In addition to communication center personnel action requests, customers can also, depending on the implementation, send real-time action requests to web server . For example, customers can initiate web-callback requests, which can for example include the customer's name and telephone number. Based on the web-callback request, communication center  can, for example, be configured to select a suitable available agent, call him, call the customer, and bridge the calls so the agent can assist the customer. Also, a 3party application can use web server . For example, a 3party application running on terminal  can use web server  to make telephone calls. These types of action requests can, for example, be sent to a Proxy Dial Handler  or a Proxy Web Callback Handler , which can forward the customer or 3party application action requests to the same Sender Queue  described above.","Proxy Action Handler  can in certain implementations be configured to reply to the user's action request. In other implementations, the reply function can be delegated to a Proxy Ping Handler  (see ). Proxy Ping Handler  can be part of a User State Reception application  as illustrated in , or it can be separate from User State Reception Application . Thus, Proxy Action Handler  can be configured to send the user's session ID to Proxy Ping Handler  to be used in responding to the action requests.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["822","830","846","848","830"],"sup":"rd "},"First, in step , an action request is received, e.g., by Proxy Action Handler . As explained in , step , the received action request can be forwarded to network zone  if required. The network zone can then generate a message in response to the received action request in step  if a response or message is required. Once a message is generated in response to an action request, it can be forwarded to the terminal  generating the action request. In the example process flow of , this involves receiving a query from the particular terminal  as to whether any messages are present in step . Thus, in step , the messages generated in step  can be forwarded to the particular terminal  for which the messages were generated and from which the query was received in step . Of course, if there are no messages waiting when a query is received in step , then nothing should be forwarded in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11"],"b":["822","810","1404","830","1408","810","1406","1408","1406","830","1408","830","1406","1404","1406","1408"]},"Proxy Ping Handler  can then retrieve all the messages for a particular terminal  using the vector obtained from session mailbox  and forward them to the particular terminal . The retrieved messages  can, for example, be in the form of a byte array or in the form of a TCP\/IP stream.","The process described can be termed a \u201cpinging methodology,\u201d i.e., a terminal  pings (queries) Proxy Ping Handler  periodically and receives any stored messages in response to each ping. A conventional pinging methodology can, however, be inefficient. For example,  illustrates a conventional ping methodology. First, as has been described, Proxy Action Handler  receives and action request from a terminal . Then Proxy Action handler  generates a response delegation message that is forwarded to a Proxy Ping Handler . It should be remembered that Proxy Action Handler  can be configured to handle responses instead. Proxy Ping Handler  then periodically receives pings from a terminal . Proxy Ping Handler  responds to each ping, including any messages retrieved with each response. If the pinging period is short, for example every 2 seconds, then the pinging methodology illustrated in  can generate an excessive amount of message traffic.","The pinging methodology of  can be used to alleviate some of this traffic. In , Proxy Action Handler  receives action requests as before. But instead of generating a response delegation message, Proxy Action Handler  simply responds with a \u201cnull response\u201d or generates no response at all, depending on the implementation. Terminals  are still configured to ping Proxy Ping Handler  as before, but instead of responding to each ping, Proxy Ping Handler  is configured to wait for a configurable period, e.g., 60 seconds or less, for any messages generated for the pinging terminal . If there are messages present on web server , then Proxy Ping Handler  can immediately forward them and then receive another ping from the same terminal . If there are no messages during the configurable period, then Proxy Ping Handler  will not send a response until after the configurable period. Thus, Proxy Ping Handler  will not receive another ping from the same terminal until after the configurable period has expired. Thus, the same, or better, level of responsiveness can be achieved with greater messaging efficiency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["814","810","830","800","1004","700","802","800"]},"Therefore, the changes, or new data, should be entered\/viewed from a system database, such as databases . Therefore, any such requests can be forwarded from a terminal  to a database interface application , which is further described below. In the event that the user uploads a system state file, e.g., mail, fax responses, IVR prompts, greetings, etc. Proxy Dispatch Handler  can be configured to add a message to the message sender queue within a user state transmission application . The added message can notify all hosts in the system that such a file is being transferred via FTP interface application  to file server , and that they can retrieve the file from file server  if they are configured to do so. For example, it can be desirable for all telephony servers  to have local access to voice greetings so they can more quickly retrieve them when they receive a telephone call.","Database interface application  can comprise a databasePool, which can be a web server object dedicated to communications with a configurable database server . The dedicated communications can occur on a dedicated port, depending for example on the brand of database software utilized. When an application needs to communicate with database server , the application can ask web server  to load the required drivers, e.g., Java Data Base Connection (JDBC). These drivers can be configured to administer a pool of connections that the application can borrow to communicate with database server .","It can be necessary for users to upload\/download files to\/from network zone  through web server . Therefore, FTP interface application  can be included on web server  as illustrated in . FTP interface application  can be configured to provide resources, such as GET and PUT, that can be used to move files back and forth from the hosts, i.e., components, in network zone . FTP interface application  can be an instantiation of a Java FTP class that can, in addition to moving files from one server to another, be configured to log vital statistics associated with file moves into databases .","For their part, network zone hosts can comprise Operating System software with built-in FTP functionality to make file reception\/transmission possible. For example, a user can use an administration manager GUI  to upload a greeting, e.g. \u201cHi, welcome to . . . \u201d, or \u201cfor sales, press  . . . ,\u201d to be played when a customer calls communication center . A file containing such a greeting can be uploaded to web server , using for example some sort of POST HTTP message. From there, the file can be distributed by a FTP interface application  to telephony servers . Telephony server  can then be configured to play the greeting when a customer call comes in to an associated telephone number.","Further, for example, a call center supervisor can record an agent-customer conversation using his supervision manager GUI , and the supervisor may want to play and review the recorded conversation. The recording can, for example, take place in telephony server  that hosted the communication between agent and customer. For the supervisor to listen to the recording, an FTP interface application  can be used to move the recorded file from telephony host  to web server , from which it can be serially downloaded to the supervisor's terminal .","In some situations, for privacy reasons for example, a company hosted by communication center  can desire to store some or all of its data and information on company systems instead or in addition to storing the data and information in communication center . To accomplish this, a remote database\/file handler application  can be included in web server  as illustrated in .  illustrates the functional blocks of an example remote database\/file handler application  running on web server . When implemented, for example, if a user desired to view a list of available, e.g., pre-configured, system faxes, his interaction manager application  can be made aware of a local database  included in his terminal , which in this case can actually be a server itself. Interaction manger  can be configured to query local database  instead of system database , which can also greatly improve system performance. This is because, interaction manger  does not need to go through web zone , network zone , and back to perform the query.","Remote terminal  can also include a Remote Storage Handler  that can be configured to ping a Proxy Remote DB Handler  included on web server  to authenticate the connection and establish a session. Following authentication and session establishment, Remote Storage Handler  can be configured to periodically ping web server  to get a status update on any company user\/client communications, e.g., when they occurred, for how long, contact information, etc. Proxy Remote DB Handler  can be configured to get the information, in response to the pinging, through the database interface application . Remote Storage Handler  can be configured to then store the information in the company's local database . If the retrieved company information has files associated, e.g., consent-to-transaction recordings, faxes, emails, etc., Remote Storage Handler  can be configured to ping Proxy Remote File Handler  to obtain the files. Proxy Remote File Handler  can be configured to obtain any such files, in response to the pinging, through FTP interface application . Remote Storage Handler  can then store the files in a configured location in database  for example.","Bus server application , which can be configured to run on web server  and the various components of network zone , can be important in allowing the various components to communicate with each other and web server  in real-time.  is presented to facilitate an understanding of bus server operation.  is a logical block diagram illustrating the operation of bus server applications . In the example of , there are three hosts , , and , each with its own bus server applications . Hosts , , and  can, for example, be a web server , a telephony server , and an application server ; however, the host can also be any type of host in any type of communication system in which hosts are interfaced via a network . Network  can, for example, be a LAN.","Initially, one bus server application  can be started automatically, e.g., a web server can start a bus server application  as part of its configured startup process, or an the operating system of an application or telephony host can, after a bus server application  has been installed, start the installed bus server application  as a service. In certain embodiments, the bus server application  that is initially started resides on a host that is configured to manage multiple resources. For example, host  in .","A bus server application  can also be initially started manually via a network manager application  for example. Network manager application  can also be configured to start other applications anywhere in the system, e.g., applications , , and .","In a communication network, especially a distributed communication network, certain applications on certain hosts may be written in one language, while other applications on other hosts are written in another. For example, applications , , and  can be written in the C++ programming language, while application  can be written in Java. This can often cause communication problems. To alleviate this problem, bus server applications  can be configured to use TCP\/IP for all inter-Bus communication and inter-application communications over LAN . Thus, the intrinsic native communication difficulties that arise for applications written in different languages can be overcome.","The term \u201cnative communication\u201d is used to describe the situation where one application \u201ccalls\u201d another application's method or process. If the two applications are written in different languages, then native communication can be hindered, i.e., there is a native communication problem. Overcoming a native communication problem can be particularly important for communication center  implementations, because web servers, such as web server  often comprise applications dominated by code written in Java, while telephony servers  and application servers  often comprise applications dominated by code written in C++. Thus, the TCP\/IP inter-bus configuration described above can be preferable for communication center applications, because it can help to overcome the native communication problem.","Bus server applications  can be configured to communicate with each other over a LAN , or some other IP network, for example on port . After each bus server application  register with each other, they can be configured to communicate in pairs using certain sockets. Registration is the process whereby bus server applications announce to each other that they are managing the communications needs of an application, e.g., application , , , or , running on a host, e.g., host , , or . In IP, a socket number identifies the virtual channel assigned to a set of applications for communicating with each other.","One form of registration that can be implemented by bus server applications  is multicast registration. In multicast registration each host , , and  establishes a connection to a pre-established network IP address that does not correspond to any host in the network. Each bus server application  can be configured to then identify itself by sending, for example, its name, host name, and host IP address, to the pre-established network IP address. Bus server applications  can be configured to then wait for other bus server applications  to identify themselves by sending their information. The first bus server application  to register will not receive a response from other bus server applications , since it is the first to register. But the second bus server application  to register should receive an identification response from the first registered bus server application . The third bus server application  should receive a response from the first two, and so on.","Alternatively, a unicast bus registration scheme can be implemented for bus server applications . In this case, each bus server application  searches a database for all registered bus server applications , or for hosts that comprise a bus server application .","After bus server applications  become aware of other bus server applications  in the network, they can be configured to establish socket connections to each other. It can, however, be desirable to minimize the number of sockets used. Thus, a scheme where the bus server application  with the lower IP address always waits for the bus server application  with the larger IP address to take action, or vice versa, can be utilized to minimize the number of socket communications generated. Other methods of reducing the amount of sockets used are discussed more fully below.","Once bus server applications  on multiple hosts have registered, they can be configured to communicate directly over LAN  using IP messages. Moreover, they can be used as communication conduits for applications residing on those hosts. For example, a network manager application  residing on host  can be configured to start application  on host . To make this possible, network manager application  can be configured to send an IP message to its corresponding bus server , which then would send that message to bus server  residing in host . The latter bus server  can then be configured to spawn application  in response to the received IP messages.","While direct inter-application communications can be utilized, for example to start and application as just described, the available sockets would quickly diminish, or the required number of sockets would be prohibitive, in large networks. In other words, if a socket were dedicated every time an application on one host needed to communicate with an application on another host, then the network would not operate very efficiently due to the limited number of sockets.","To avoid problems associated with the limited number of sockets, each bus server application  can be configured to receive all communications from each application running on the same host, whether they are intended for other applications on the same or different hosts. If the communication is intended for an application on another host, then bus server  can be configured to broadcast the message over LAN  using TCP\/IP. Thus, all other bus server applications  on LAN  will receive the broadcast messages; however, the other bus server applications  will ignore received messages unless they are intended for an application on their associated host.","Accordingly, instead of each application being forced to communicate individually with a plurality of other applications on other hosts, each application can now simply communicate with one application, i.e., its associated bus server application . The associated bus server application  can then broadcast messages received from the applications on LAN  or redirect the received messages to other applications on the same host as required. Such an approach can help reduce bandwidth limitation problems that result from limited socket availability. This type of bus scheme is also beneficial in terms of the hot backup system and methods described below.","Implementing the bus scheme just described should reduce operational overhead, memory, and bandwidth requirements for the network. It also allows the dynamic addition of new applications and hosts onto the network without stopping, recompiling, or otherwise disrupting network operation.","Network manger application  can actually rely on bus server application  to control the addition, modification\/configuration, and stopping of applications and hardware within the network. A user can, for example, use a network manager GUI (not shown) to make any necessary system adjustments, which network manager application  can be configure to then store in a system database using bus server application  in real-time. In addition, since bus server application  can be used by the network for all inter-application communications, a bus server application  can be the most reliable source for real-time network information. Network manager application  can also be configured to rely on a bus server application  to become aware of the state of a given application within the network, e.g., running, stopped, etc. Such status information can, for example, be made visible using the network manager GUI, an can be stored in the system database.","Whenever a bus server application receives network information, by any means, it can be configured to distribute relevant information, e.g., a certain application being up or down, or a certain databases, such as user, company, or customer databases, being changed, to each application. Similarly, each application running in the network can be configured to notify its corresponding bus server application  in advance of its information needs. Thereafter, the corresponding bus server application  can be configured to filter information based on the needs of various applications, and distribute the filtered information accordingly.","Now that some example applications configured to run on web server  have been described, it should be pointed out that a communication center  can be configured to host the communications of a plurality of companies. Having their communications hosted on a communication center  allows organizations to lease infrastructure at a reduced cost from a Service Provider instead of buying their own equipment, generally referred in the industry as Customer Premises Equipment (CPE). To this effect, communication center  can be configured to: A) allow for software and hardware resources to be shared across companies or to be used for the exclusive use of a company, B) comprise a database structure for the handling of all companies, users and languages.","For security reasons, a communication center operator may have to ensure that it is not possible for the confidential data of one company to mix with the data of another company. Thus, hosting more than one company can present problems related to data and resource segregation. Clearly, one company may have information or data that they do not want intermingled with that of another company. For example, a company may not want the contact information, e.g., telephone number, email, etc., of its customers to be visible to another company. Also, a company may not want agents, or other communication center personnel, to handle their communications if they are handling communications for, or are somehow affiliated with, certain other companies.","To provide the segregation required, certain hardware, software, and database resources can be duplicated within communication center  so that each, or certain, companies have dedicated resources. For example, as illustrated in , there can actually be a plurality of telephony servers , application servers , database servers , and file servers . Thus, if required for example, a telephony server  can be dedicated to a specific customer hosted on communication center . As explained below, hardware duplication, or redundancy, can also be used to provide network resiliency.","Software resources can also be duplicated, so that certain customers have dedicated software resources that are segregated from the software resources of other companies. Software duplication, or redundancy, can also be useful for providing network redundancy, which again is addressed more fully below. Example web zone software applications have been described above. Some of these web zone applications can, therefore, be dedicated to a certain customer. This can involve duplicating the software applications or duplicating both the software applications and the hardware resources, i.e., web servers and\/or mail servers. The duplicated resources can then be assigned to different customers.","Table 1, on the other hand, lists some example software applications, for a particular implementation, that can run on network zone . Certain of these applications can be dedicated to a certain company because they use or access confidential information. Table 1 also lists some commonly shared applications from the same example implementation. More information regarding the example applications listed in table 1 is provided below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0149"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Dedicated",{}]},{"entry":["Resource Name","Summary of Resource Function"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Internet Handler","Maintains communication between real-time user "]},{"entry":["(IH)","GUIs and the hosted application's network zone."]},{"entry":["Automatic Call","Maintains all of the Company specific project routing "]},{"entry":["Distributor (ACD)","rules for voice, chat, and email projects."]},{"entry":["Computer","Maintains communication between the ACD telephony"]},{"entry":["Integration (CTI)","resource and other application resources. Determines "]},{"entry":[{},"which available communication center resource "]},{"entry":[{},"to use for bridging the outbound leg of a voice call."]},{"entry":["Chat Handler","Interfaces with the IM Server and ACD resources "]},{"entry":["(CHATH)","to provide for the handling of all ACD Chat and "]},{"entry":[{},"collaboration processes."]},{"entry":["Email Distributor","Interfaces with the ACD resource and the Statistics "]},{"entry":[{},"Tracker and controls all ACD email functionality."]},{"entry":["Statistics Tracker","Writes all communication-related information to "]},{"entry":[{},"the database."]},{"entry":["System","Alerts a Statistics Tracker to any changes that need to be "]},{"entry":["Scheduler","made for project routing rules based on time parameters."]},{"entry":["Predictive Caller","Allows for the systematic calling of selected customers."]},{"entry":["Shared",{}]},{"entry":["Resource Names",{}]},{"entry":["Host Manager","Sets up host data structures used for storage of history "]},{"entry":["(HMGR)","files, quality recordings, and generates email and "]},{"entry":[{},"chat sessions."]},{"entry":["Call Handler","Controls telephony hardware connected to a telephone "]},{"entry":["(CALLH)","company's central office, and communication center "]},{"entry":[{},"agents. Plays prompts and makes quality recordings."]},{"entry":["Call Bridge","Controls the routing of calls across any number of "]},{"entry":["(CALLB)","telephony servers."]},{"entry":["Unified","Attaches fax (e.g. .tiff) files and sound (e.g. .wav) files "]},{"entry":["Messenger","for use as system fax and voice mail resources. "]},{"entry":["(UMGR)","Tracks e-mails with errors."]},{"entry":["License Manager","Keeps track of communications available to a company "]},{"entry":["(LMGR)","and to keep track of the status of all resources."]},{"entry":["Simple Network","Allows for simple network management protocol "]},{"entry":["Manager (SNM)","compliance for remote monitoring of system alarms, "]},{"entry":[{},"performance, and controlling of system resources."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The need to ensure information confidentiality, and to make sure that communication center  is scalable, can result in various divisions, and duplication of resources. For example, in a small CPE implementation, it may be possible for a single software application to take on all the functions of a CTI, Call Handler, and Call Bridge. But if information needs to be segregated, then it can be important to have a CTI that is dedicated to each company. Conversely, from a system scalability point of view, a Call Bridge that is shared and which can control effective use of an ATM switch can be preferred.","If multiple companies are hosted, it can also be preferable to partition and segregate customer data in databases . It should be noted that such partitioning can be done in conjunction with the use of a plurality of database servers  if required. To aid the partitioning and recovery of data, each hosted company can be assigned a unique Company ID. This Company ID can then be associated with all data elements stored in databases  relating to the associated company. The following paragraphs detail some example databases that can be used to maintain effective management and segregation of data in communication center . Thus, the company ID described above can be associated with the data in the following databases to ensure appropriate management of the data.","First, a company database can include all information regarding a hosted company, e.g., users, contacts, workgroups, projects, libraries, communication information, etc. The information in a company database can, for example, be configured through an administration manager GUI .","A users database can also be included and can contain all information regarding users, e.g. administrator, agent, supervisor, etc., associated with a specific company, or company ID. The user database can include agent personal information, skill ratings, telephone assignments, media restrictions, user status definitions, etc. The information in a user database can also be configured through an administration manager GUI .","A workgroups database can contain information regarding the workgroups configured by a company to handle its communications. Such information can include, for example, agent assignments to a workgroup, skill assignments, overflow routing, unique voice message assignments and ACD options for callers holding in queues. The information in a workgroup database can also be configured through an administration manager GUI .","A projects database can include all media communication routing schemes, including: voice, chat, email, web callback, predictive dialing, and preview dialing, instructions for how agents, menus, or workgroups communications are to be routed, project priorities, URL pages to be utilized for scripts, FAQs, web callback, and chat push pages. The projects database can also be configured through an administration manager GUI .","An interaction track database can include all information associated with any communication event for a company. It can, for example, include information such as project information, telephone information, agent assigned, duration, etc. The interaction track database can be an important database that is used for reporting purposes. The interaction track database can be updated through the Statistics Tracker software application associated with the corresponding company.","A contacts database can include all information regarding the contacts, e.g., call center customers, of a hosted company. This information can include data such as contact name, address, telephone number, etc. The information in the contact database can be managed through an interaction manager GUI .","A history database can include all the historical information related to any communications a hosted company customer has had with the company. This information can include agent names, communication outcome, type of communication, notes, chat and email transcripts, and agent initiated recordings. The history database can be updated through the Statistics Tracker.","A quality control database can include all call center quality control recordings. These can be agent-initiated recordings that are initiated, for example, using an interaction manager GUI , or supervisor-initiated recordings, initiated for example using a supervision manager GUI . The quality control database can be updated through the Statistics Tracker.","Other databases can, of course, be included depending on the requirements of a specific implementation. Accordingly, updates to databases  can occur in a variety of ways, including: A) direct user entry, such as configuration information entered through an administration manager application  or contact entry or update entered through an interaction manager application ; B) system provided additions based on use of user functionality, such as interaction manager application  or supervision manager application  recordings; or C) direct system input, such as communication information from the Statistics Tracker application, which is described below.","The use of databases  with the systems and methods described herein can also make it possible to provide multi-language support, e.g., GUIs presented in the user's spoken language: English, Spanish, etc. through the use of multiple configurable language keys and pre-recorded prompts. This may be accomplished through the use of Java Resource Bundles. These Java Resource Bundles can be grouped by language and can, for example, consist of English to Foreign language translations, or KEYS, for each of the supported languages. Such Java Resource Bundles can be stored on web server . When a user logs into an application, e.g., user session handler application , he can select a language and a corresponding GUI. A message can then be sent to a JSP on web server , which can then associated a Language ID for the session. Information and data associated with the session can then be stored with the Language ID, so that communication center  knows to use the appropriate language for the session and possibly future related sessions.","Java Resource Bundles can be created from an administration manager application . This can, in certain implementations, be accomplished through the use of three database tables: a local keys database, a local language database, and local variants database. The local keys database table can, for example, contain the information associated with a resource bundle. Depending on the number of companies hosted and amount of communications, there can be tens of thousand of objects contained in the local keys database. The local language database can contain all of the languages supported by communication center . The local variants database can include all possible resource bundles and can enable the user to create them from scratch. Thus, by combining resource bundles, language, and information from these three databases, an administrator can, for example, create the Java Resource Bundles using an administration manager application .","Now that possible configurations and implementations for a web zone  have been explained in detail, some possible configuration and implementations for a network zone  will be explained in conjunction with the example embodiment of . As can be seen, network zone  includes database server , file server , application servers , , and , and telephony servers  and . Each server can comprise standard server hardware and software as well as hardware and\/or software configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein. For example, the applications of table 1 can be included in one or more of the servers illustrated in .","There are three application servers , , and  and two telephony servers  and , in the example of , to illustrate that both hardware and software resources can be duplicated and\/or divided between servers within network zone . As explained above, one reason to duplicate or divide resources can be related to the hosting of multiple companies. Another reason, explained in detail below, is for resiliency. Other possible reasons can include simple resource management and system efficiency.","In practice, it can be preferred that software telephony resources run on telephony servers  and  and that software application resources run on application servers , , and ; however, due to the real-time, distributed nature of a communication center designed in accordance with systems and methods described herein, it is possible for the various hardware and software resources described herein to reside anywhere within a communication center, e.g., communication center . Thus, telephony resources can actually reside on application servers , , and , while application resources can reside on telephony servers  and . Further, web zone resources can also reside on either type of server and network zone resources can reside in web zone servers. Accordingly, the zone segregation illustrated in  are, in some respects, simply represents logical segregation as opposed to necessary physical world segregation.","Each host within network zone  is shown comprising certain applications; however, this is just for purposes of illustration. Any of these resources can reside on any of he hosts within a network zone  as required by a particular implementation. The first of these applications is a bus server application . Bus server application  can be the same or similar to bus server application  described above. Thus, each host in network zone  can have a bus server application . In addition, each host in network zone  can include a host manager application  that can be configured to make all file transfers to\/from application servers , , and , telephony servers  and , file server , and a corresponding web zone, for example, using FTP. Many conventional Operating Systems comprise native ability to perform such transfers. Therefore, some or all of host manager applications  can comprise conventional operating system resources.","A host manager application can, for example, be generated by a network manager application. After creation, e.g., by the network manager application, a host manager application  can be configure to create a directory structure on its corresponding host, and download all necessary system state library files  (email\/fax responses, IVR prompts, greetings) from a designated File server . Further, if a user makes a change in the system state, for example by uploading a new file  into a library stored in network zone , a user state transmission application  can be configured to broadcast, e.g., over LAN , the change to all hosts in network zone . Each host can then download the change from file server .","Additionally, every time communications take place between users, or between users and customers, the communication center can be configured to capture vital statistics, e.g., when and what type of communications\u2014chat, email, telephone\u2014occurred, as well as any associated files , e.g., chat transcripts, conversation notes, etc. Such statistics and files can be transferred to file server  to be stored in files  under the control of a host manager application .","Application server  can also include an Internet handler application  that can be configure to act as a communications link between real-time user application, e.g., interaction manger application , supervision manger application , or administration manger application , and other applications within network zone . For example, Internet handler application  can be configured to notify a Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) application  that an agent pressed \u2018Mute\u201d on his interaction manager GUI . An Internet handler application  can also, for example, be configured to notify the agent's interaction manager application  that an Email Distributor application  has forwarded an email to the agent. Further, Internet handler application  can be configured to send chat communications from a Chat Handler (CHATH) application  to and from customer terminals and agent terminals .","CHATH application  can be configured to facilitate the communications between the agent terminals  and customer chat applets, through Internet handler application . For example, when a customer requests a chat, CHATH application  can be configured to find the best-suited agent by communicating with ACD . CHATH application  can then present the agent's terminal  with a new communication through Internet handler application . Thereafter, again through Internet handler application , CHATH application  can be configured to effectively act as a reflector of customer-entered chat text to the agent's terminal , and vice versa.","CHATH application  can, depending on the implementation, reside on a web server, e.g., web server , and not on application server . The advantage to such a configuration is that communication delays associated with Internet handler application  acting as a go between in chat communications can be avoided. In such a configuration, the customer can actually be connected to one web server, while the agent is connected with a different web server. Therefore, a different CHATH application  can reside in each of the two web servers and can be configured to communicate with each other through a bus server application, e.g., bus server application .","It can be desirable for CHATH application  to save vital chat statistics, e.g., when a chat occurred, who participated, what was discussed, etc., as well as a transcript of the customer-agent chat, in database  or files . It can also be desirable for such information to be stored as part of a larger global database that is unified for all media such that any communication center personnel can access the complete agent communication history for any customer using, for example, interaction manager application .","Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) application  can reside on application server  and can be configured to globally manage telephone connections for a hosted company by controlling system resources such as Call Handler (CALLH) application  and Call Bridge (CALLB) application . CTI application  can be configured to keep track of all telephony resources and telephone lines, including which ones are available or in use, and by whom. CTI application  can be configure to then use this information to make global decisions on how to connect new communications.","To aid in explanation, an example configuration for a telephony server  will briefly be described in conjunction with . First, as with all the servers in a distributed communication center, such as communication center , a telephony server, e.g., telephony server  or , can be an off-the-shelf server with standard or custom hardware components, such as a processor , a server chipset , and memory . In addition, it can comprise standard Input\/Output (I\/O)  that can include expansion slots, e.g., IS, PCI, or CompaqPCI, into which custom or off-the-shelf telephony cards, e.g., Dialogic\/Intel voice, fax, or conferencing boards, can be inserted. In one particular implementation, for example, telephony server  comprises Intel's Dialogic hardware running on an off-the-shelf Compaq computer.","It should be noted that even though processor  is illustrated as a single device in , it can actually comprise a plurality of processors and circuits. For example, processor  can comprise one or more microprocessor and\/or microcontroller circuits, a Digital Signal Processing (DSP) circuit, and other customized or customizable circuits depending on the implementation. These circuits can comprise a single Integrated Circuit (IC) or some or all of them can be standalone devices. Further, server chip set , can comprise a plurality of circuits, depending on the implementation, that can be part of a single IC or one or more standalone devices. Some or all of processor  can also be integrated with some or all of server ship set  as well.","Memory  can comprise a plurality of storage devices and media. For example, it can comprise memory circuits such as ROM or RAM ICs. Common examples are SRAM, EPROM, and FLASH circuits. These circuits can be included on a circuit board or can be removable devices, such as FLASH based memory cards. Memory  can also comprise storage drives, such as hard drives, CDROM drives, etc. These drives can also be removable or can use removable digital media such as floppy disks, or CDs. All such storage devices and media can be termed, for purposes of this specification and the claims that follow, computer readable media.","The telephony cards can be connected to each other, for example, through a Computer Telephony (CT) bus . The telephony cards can also be connected to various types of I\/O lines, some of which can be: 1) Modular System Interface (MSI) local telephone extensions, 2) network connections to a LAN, 3) Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) connections to a switch or another server, 4) telephone connections provided by a local telephone company's central office, e.g., T-1 or E-1 lines. T-1 lines are digital transmission links with a total signaling speed of 1.544 Mbps (1,544,000,000 bits per second). T-1 lines are the standard connectivity provided by telephone companies to businesses in North America.","Telephony cards can be configured to perform time division multiplexing (switching) such that simultaneous telephone conversations can take place on a shared physical line. For example, T-1 lines can typically carry 24 simultaneous full duplex conversations. Full duplex means that two people can have a simultaneous two-way conversation (they can talk and be heard at the same time on either end of the line). This capability of switching hardware may typically be measured in channels or time slots. For example, a T-1 line has 24 channels, one for each potential conversation, and 48 time slots, 1 time slot for communication in each direction. Moreover, a CT bus may have 1,024 time slots for inter telephony card communications. These channels or time slots may be numbered to refer to specific voice, data, video, or other communications.","CTI application  can be configured to manage the aggregate channels and time slots of all the equipment dedicated to serve a company, or a number of companies hosted by a communication center. Different telephony cards can be assigned a range of time slots for communications across the CT bus. As communications occur, CTI application  can be configure to keep track of what CT bus time slots are occupied, and what T-1, or other, channels may be used to control connection of a new calls from customers or communication center personnel.","For example, a call from a customer may come in over a T-1 line, and be presented to CTI application  by a CALLH application  managing the T-1 card on a particular CT bus time slot. CTI application  can be configured to then ask a CALLH application  managing a MSI card to call a particular call center agent at his particular extension. The MSI, under control of a CALLH application , can then present CALLH application  with the CT bus time slot for the communication. CTI application  can be configured to then command the MSI card, through CALLH application , to listen to the CT bus time slot of the T-1 call. CTI application  can be configured to then command the T-1 card, through CALLH application , to listen to the CT bus time slot of the MSI call, effectively bridging them.","It can be that the T-1 call comes into a telephony server other than the one the call center agent's telephone is connected to. In that event, a CALLB application , which is described below, can become involved in handling the communication.","The selection of a particular agent to handle a particular customer communication can be the primary concern of ACD . ACD  can be configured to assign the best available agent to new, incoming communications. To do this, ACD  can be configured to use information about the skills of agents, and the skill requirements of calls routed to specific workgroups, as well as agent status information provided through the agents interaction manger application . ACD  should also be configured to use such information as company affiliation and language capability, which can for example be stored in database , in call routing. Moreover, ACD  can be configured to simultaneously accomplish the routing activity in real-time across all media types, e.g., telephone calls, emails, etc.","At any given time, an ACD  can have: 1) a number of available agents waiting for a new communication, or 2) a number of communications queued waiting for the next available agent. In the first case, when ACD  has more available agents than new communications, ACD  can be configured to compute a score for all available agents, and pick the agent with the highest score to handle the next communication. The score may be derived using the method exemplified in the following tables 2-5. The method assumes that there are two workgroups, workgroup  and workgroup , two agents in each workgroup, agent  and agent  (for simplicity agent  and agent  are actually used for both workgroups  and ), and two relevant skills, skill  and skill , to consider when routing an incoming communication.","Thus, Table 2 examines the relevant capabilities of the workgroups. Table 3 then examines the relevant capabilities of each agent, including how long they have been idle. Using table 4, an agent can be selected to receive the next communication routed to workgroup . Similarly, table 5 can be used to selected an agent to receive the next communication routed to workgroup . The workgroup, to receive an incoming communication, selected can be based on table 1, or other criteria or settings stored, for example, in database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0186","num":"0185"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["WORKGROUP",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["PROPERTIES","Workgroup 1","Workgroup 2",{}]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Skill 1","60","10","How IMPORTANT is "]},{"entry":["Weight",{},{},"Skill 1 for the workgroup "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to be effective?"]},{"entry":["Skill 2","30","70",{}]},{"entry":["Weight",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["TOTAL Skill","90","80","Sum of skill weights"]},{"entry":["Weight",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["TOTAL Idle","10","20","A measure of how often calls "]},{"entry":["Time Weight",{},{},"should be routed to more"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"idle (less skilled) agents."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"By definition, the total skill "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"weight and total idle time "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"weight add up to 100"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0186"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["AGENT",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["PROPERTIES","Agent 1","Agent 2"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Skill 1 Rating","80","30","How GOOD is the agent at Skill 1?"]},{"entry":["Skill 2 Rating","20","90",{}]},{"entry":["Measured","50","720","How long has the agent been idle?"]},{"entry":["Idle Time","00","0",{}]},{"entry":"(seconds)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0188","num":"0187"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Both Agent 1 and "]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["AGENT IN ",{},{},"Agent 2 belong to "]},{"entry":["WORKGROUP",{},{},"Workgroup 1 and"]},{"entry":["SCORING","Agent 1","Agent 2","Workgroup 2"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Work-","Skills","Score","5,400.00 ","4,500.00","How appreciable "]},{"entry":["group 1",{},{},{},{},"are the agent skills"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"to the workgroup? "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Sum of agents kills "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"multiplied by"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"respective skill "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"weight in workgroup"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ","1.00","0.83 ","Agent skills score "]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},"divided by the "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},"largest "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"agent skills score"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Weighed","90.00","75.00","Agent normalized "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ",{},{},"skills score times the "]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},"Total Weight of "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},"Skills in the "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"workgroup"]},{"entry":[{},"Time","Score","50,000.00","72,000.00","Agent Idle "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"time times"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Idle Time Weight "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"in the workgroup"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ","0.69","1.00 ","Agent Idle time "]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},"score divided by "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},"the largest Agent "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"idle time score"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Weighted","6.94","10.00","Agent's normalized "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ",{},{},"idle time times the "]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},"Total Idle Time "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},"Weight in the "]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"workgroup"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"FINAL AGENT",{},{},"Call to Workgroup "]},{"entry":[{},"SCORE","96.94","85.00","1 will be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"routed to Agent 1"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0188"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Both Agent 1 and "]},{"entry":["AGENT IN ",{},{},"Agent 2 belong to "]},{"entry":["WORKGROUP",{},{},"Workgroup 1 and"]},{"entry":["SCORING","Agent 1","Agent 2","Workgroup 2"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Work-","Skills","Score","2,200.00","6,600.00",{}]},{"entry":["group 2",{},"Normal- ","0.33","1.00",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Weighed","26.67","80.00",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Time","Score","100,000.00","144,000.00",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal ","0.69","1.00",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"-ized",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Weighed","13.89","20.00",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Normal- ",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ized",{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Score",{},{},{}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"FINAL AGENT","40.56","100.00","Call to Workgroup "]},{"entry":[{},"SCORE",{},{},"1 will be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"routed to Agent 2"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"If, on the other hand, ACD  has more incoming communications than available agents, then an agent can be selected using the following criteria: 1) the communication is compatible with communications the agent is already handling, for example, an agent handling an email can be selected to receive an incoming communication, the theory being that the agent can handle the two simultaneously as opposed perhaps to two incoming calls; 2) a priority associated with an incoming communication, e.g., a lower priority communication currently being handled can be put on hold while a newer, higher priority communication is handled; 3) how long a communication has been queued; 4) an agents and\/or workgroups relative score, e.g., based on a same or similar analysis to that of tables 2-5; and 5) The communication with the highest ID number.","ACD  can be configured to determine which agents are available in a number of ways. For example, as mentioned, an agent can set his availability using his interaction manager application . This can be an important method given the race conditions that can occur in establishing an agent's availability in real-time. For example, when telephony server  receives a customer telephone call, it can be configured to connect it to the best-suited agent. That agent, however, may attempt to make a separate telephone call after he has been selected, but before the call is actually routed to him, which would make him actually unavailable to handle the incoming telephone call. It can be desirable to configure telephony server  to detect this situation, but this can be difficult given the intrinsic delays in communicating agent availability information across the communication center. Therefore, telephony server , or ACD , may not be able to make the best routing decision unless the agent's availability is computed centrally and as close to the agent as possible. Accordingly, it can in such situations be preferable that interaction manager application  determine an agent's availability as described above.","ACD  can be configured, therefore, to route any type of communication, e.g., telephone, fax, email, web call-back, telephone call-back, web chat, etc., to the best-suited agent. For telephone communications, e.g., telephone calls, web callback requests, telephone callback requests, etc., the agent and customer can use their telephone, e.g., desk telephone, cellular telephone, soft telephone, etc., to communicate with each other. For offline communications, e.g., email, fax, or voicemail, where the client is not necessarily communicating in real-time with an agent, an Email Distributor application  can be configured to manage the distribution of both inbound and outbound emails to\/from the agent's terminal . The agent can then, for example, use a powerful off-the-shelf email client, such as Microsoft Outlook, to handle the communication and respond\/communicate with the customer. For web chats, or similar web-initiated communications such as instant messaging and Short Message Service (SMS), a CHATH application  can be configured to manage the real-time chat communications among agents and customers. Since chats occur in real time, it may be preferred that the agent's terminal  include a chat client application within, or separate from, interaction manager application . In certain embodiments, the customer can even be allowed to download a chat client from web server .","As described above, an Email Distributor application  can be configured as the core of all communication center  email communications. Email Distributor application  can be configured to retrieve customer emails from, for example, a POP3 mail server (see, e.g., mail server  in ). For each incoming email, Email Distributor application  can be configured to request an agent be selected by ACD . Once an agent is selected, Email Distributor application  can be configured to route an incoming email to the selected agent.","In certain implementations, all agent generated emails can first pass through a centralized storage area in network zone . For example, by changing the \u201cFrom\u201d field in an agent generated email, the agent's reply can be sent to a common storage area. Although, agents can still be allowed to send personal emails directly to their POP3 email server without intervention by Email Distributor application . Therefore, an agent's response may not, depending on the implementation, go directly from the agent to the customer so that the system can capture the agent's response and store it as part of the client history.","While Email Distributor application  can be configured to handle the distribution of emails to communication center agents, a Unified Messenger (UMGR) application  can be configure to be responsible for the distribution of faxes and voicemails, whether they were sent directly to an agent's extension or were routed by ACD . Moreover, UMGR application  can be used to make it possible for agents to retrieve their mail, e.g., voicemail, faxes, email, etc., through a telephone.","In the event of a failure in the distribution of emails, potentially with attached voicemail or faxes, the software applications effected, e.g., Email Distributor application  or the UMGR application , can be configured to log the failure event in database . Then, a communication center administrator can, for example, use his administration manager application  to view information related to the failure, e.g., bad agent email address, bad address syntax, etc. The administrator can also be allowed to edit the information and re-send the failed communication using his administration manager .","Alternatively, UMGR application  can be configured to resend the failed communication. This can be preferable, in fact because UMGR application  has the ability to send emails and already has access to the file system  where the failed communication is stored. Therefore, it can be desirable, depending on the implementation, to have a UMGR application  in every host that either has telephony hardware or that has an Email Distributor application  running thereon. Alternatively, UMGR application  can be eliminated, and its functionality incorporated within another application such as Email Distributor application , CALLH application , or Host Manager application . In fact, any of the application depicted in  can actually comprise part or all of another application depending on the particular implementation.","From the discussion above, it can be seen that a network manager application, e.g., network manager application , can be configured to create a variety of software resources to handle the communications of one or many companies. Further, these different resources can be involved in a large number of communications. It may therefore be important to have a billing strategy and a method to limit these resources and\/or communications.","Conventional communication centers often use products from a variety of companies that specialize in certain niches, e.g, fax solutions, email solutions, predictive solutions, etc. Systems integrators are then often employed to integrate these different products. Consequently, a company or communication center operator often must pay for a different license for each of the different products. In other words, there can be a different license for each different type of communication handled in communication center . This approach can, of course, be economically inefficient.","Seamless integration of resources that reduces the number of licenses needed and\/or the burden of managing them can be achieved, however, using the systems and methods described herein. Such seamless integration can reduce economic inefficiencies, because communications can now be billed by the volume of communications as opposed to simply by type as with conventional approaches. Accordingly, the seamless integration afforded by the systems and methods described herein can allow a company the flexibility of bundling and unbundling solutions, e.g., fax, but not email, or fax and email, or just telephone, as is necessary. Further, it affords the ability to pay a vendor of a particular software application by the volume of overall communications, regardless of type.","The licenses acquired with the various software applications may still impose usage limits. A License Manager (LMGR) application  can be used to enforce such limits. To enforce any usage limits, LMGR application  can be notified when applications are started and stopped by a network manager application (not shown in ). As a result, for example, if an application was added manually instead of by the network manager application, LMGR application  can establish that the resource is not legitimate, and that it should be rejected. In such a situation, LMGR application  can be configured to then notify the network manager applications of the rejected application. LMGR application  can also be notified when communications are started and stopped by any network resource, so that it can effectively enforce usage limits.","Effective enforcement of licenses can also be aided using an authentication dongle that can be attached, e.g., at a serial port, within a communication center. A software vendor can, for example, encrypt system limitations in the dongle based on what a company or communication center operator has paid for. For example, a dongle can contain the peak number of licenses\/communications that can be consumed by the whole communication center. In a hosted environment, the communication center operator can then, depending on the implementation, divide the allowable communications among the hosted companies. LMGR application  can then be configured to enforce all limitations.","Another billing alternative that can be implemented in a communication center, configured according to the systems and methods described herein, is to allow a company to use as many communications or applications as it needs. LMGR application  can be configured, in such cases, to periodically produce a encrypted and signed report that indicates how many communications, for example per hour, and how many application resources, for example peak usage, have been used. This can be particularly desirable for cases where peak hour consumption is not easily predicted, and interrupting service due to preconceived limitations may be undesirable.","LMGR application  can also be configured to determine which application is a master and which is backup. This function is described in detail below in relation to the resiliency aspects of the system and methods described herein.","When an application is initiated by a network manager application, the newly initiated application can download a significant volume of configuration information from database . Since the amount of data downloaded can be large, it can be preferable to configure the newly initiated application to connect directly to database  upon startup for the application. After startup, the application may need to access database , for example to store communication statistics or information. For these types of transactions, a Statistics Tracker  can be configured to act as a gateway between the application and database . Such an approach can minimize the number of simultaneous connections that database  needs to maintain with communication center applications. Further, the centralization of database connectivity in a single application can prevent database failures from blocking activities that do not require database access.","A Simple Network Manager (SNM) application  can be configured to make the communication center Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) compliant. Accordingly, SNM application  can be an SNMP agent. SNM application  can be configure to allow 3rd party applications to monitor communication center activity. For example, it may provide real-time statistics to a 3party. SNM application  can also be configured to notify 3rd party applications of any alarms, e.g., when a T-1 channel appears to be blocked. Finally, SNM application  can be configured to allow a 3rd party application to take action on the communication center, for example, to correct a problem that caused an alarm to be issued.","System Scheduler application  can be configured to keep track and act on scheduled events, e.g., scheduled changes in communication center functionality. Furthermore, System Scheduler application  can be configured to intelligently predict when to generate such system changes so they take effect at the right time. For example, because a distributed communication center, e.g., communication center , can comprise zones or components anywhere in the world, such a scheduled activity may need to be performed in a time zone sensitive manner. Further, if a customer requested a web-callback for 3 pm PST, for example, and the estimated wait time for the next available agent seems to be around 30 minutes, the System Scheduler application  should be configured to initiate the web-callback at 2:30 PM.","Other example scheduled activities can include modifying a telephone number for a given project, generating an ACD controlled web call hack to a customer, or allowing an agent to schedule himself or his workgroup to call back a customer.","In addition to routing and handling incoming communications, a communication center configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein can also be configured to handle outbound communications. For example, a communication center can be configured to schedule and generate telephone calls to a plurality of telephone numbers, e.g., to invite households to change their long distance carrier. A Predictive Caller application  can be configured to handle such activity. As such, Predictive Caller application  can be configured to generate a number of outbound telephone calls and connect them to available agents. Therefore, Predictive Caller application  should be configured to balance the availability of customers on the telephone, e.g., based on how many telephone calls it makes, and the availability of communication center agents. Such balancing can help ensure that return on investment for such outbound telephone calls is optimized.","In some instances, more customers may answer the telephone in response to such outbound calls than expected. In which case, the communication center may not have enough available agents to handle all of the communications and, e.g., a call may need to be disconnected. Such disconnected telephone calls are often referred to as abandoned telephone calls. To assist in dealing with this situation a system administrator can configure aspects of Predictive Caller application  through parameters input, for example, through an administration manger application . Some example parameters that can be configured are how many calls Predictive Caller application  makes per number of available agents and a devised pacing algorithm to manage how many calls are made, and when. Further parameters-based configuration can allow an administrator to give feedback to such a pacing algorithm, for example, slowing down or accelerating the number of calls it generates.","Not all predictive calls seek to necessarily connect a customer to an agent. For example, doctor's offices may desire to play an appointment reminder to a patient. They may even desire to be able to leave a voicemail with that reminder in the patient's voicemail inbox. Predictive Caller application  can be configured, for example through input parameters, to perform such functions as well. Predictive Caller application  can also be configured to modify the list of contacts based on certain criteria. For example, if the telephone call generated by Predictive Caller application  reaches a fax machine, then Predictive Caller application  can be configured to remove the telephone number from the campaign's telephone number list, or possibly schedule a later call.","Each telephony server  and  can comprise one or more CALLH applications , each configured to control one or more telephony cards\/hardware, e.g., T-1 cards, MSI cards, etc. ATM cards\/hardware, on the other hand, can be controlled by a dedicated CALLB application . A CALLH application  can be configured to monitor hardware queues for new events, e.g., incoming telephone calls, telephone picked up, etc., and control voice call and fax routing for any such events based on commands from a CTI application . Depending on the implementation, one CTI application  can be configured to control multiple CALLH applications . Alternatively, one CALLH application  can be controlled by multiple CTI applications . To control its assigned hardware, a CALLH application  can be configured to use an Application Programming Interface (API) provided by the hardware manufacturer. Such an API can provide the necessary resources, for example, to control calls, control conferencing, play tones, play voice message, and record voice. Therefore, such APIs not only define a set of instructions but also the responses\/data that can be used with those instructions.","Thus, CALLH application  can be made aware, among other things, of the telephony\/routing information for a particular hosted company's projects\/campaigns, telephone menus, workgroups, and agents so that CALLH application  can effectively route telephony communications. For example, when a telephone call comes into a telephony server , CALLH application  can be configured to communicate to CTI application  that the telephone call was received, on what host it was received, on what T-1 channel, and which CT Bus time slot is to be used for the telephone call. CALLH application  can also be configured to transmit any voice associated with the telephone call. With the information received from CALLH application , CTI application  can be configured to command CALLH application  to call a particular agent and connect the agent with the incoming telephone call. CALLH application  can be configured to then make a telephone call to the agent's local\/remote extension, which can result in a CT bus time slot being allocated for the agent to talk\/transmit. CALLH application  can be configured to then command the telephony server  to allow the incoming telephone call to listen to the agent's time slot, and the agent's telephone call to listen to the incoming telephone call's time slot, effectively bridging the two.","In some instances, telephony server  does not directly receive one half of the telephone call. In other words, one party's call is coming into telephony server , while the other half is coming into another telephony server. Thus, the two halves of the telephone call must be bridged between the two servers. CALLB application  can be configured for such situations to control ATM cards to bridge calls originating in one server and ending in another one. Telephony servers  and  can, therefore, comprise an ATM card, or some other type of high-speed telephony capable card, connected to an external ATM switch, or a similar type of switch such as a gigabit Ethernet switch. The ATM switch can be configured to transport data back and forth from any two cards in the system. For example, CALLB application  in telephony server  can be used by CTI application  to facilitate a customer telephone call entering a T-1 card in telephony server  that must exit a MSI card on telephony server  to connect to an agent.","In a conventional system, ranges of time slots in the CT bus are allocated for ATM communications across any two servers. But this is not a scalable solution and, therefore, is not necessarily preferable. This is because it is preferable that an ATM solution provide high bandwidth connectivity, potentially using many time slots. As a result, statically allocating segments of the CT bus for cross-server ATM connectivity can quickly use all the time slots in a CT bus, even before a single telephone call is made. A communication center configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein, however, can allow for dynamic allocation of a time slot for ATM connectivity from one server to any other server.","To achieve this dynamic allocation, a CALLB application  can be configured to \u201ctransport\u201d a transmit time slot for an incoming telephone call in one server, to another transmit slot, e.g., in the server where the agent's MSI card will be listening. The process can be explained in conjunction with the flow chart of  for an incoming call on a T-1 slot. First, in step  the CALLH application  associated with the T-1 telephone call in telephony server  can be configured to indicate the incoming telephone call and the associated time slot to an ACD application  on application server . Then, in step  ACD application  can be configured to send CALLH application  information regarding what agent to route the telephone call to.","Next, in step , routing information can be provided, for example, CALLH application  can be configured to send a request to a CTI application  for instructions concerning routing the telephone call to the agent. Then, in step , the time slot assigned the incoming telephone call on server , can be transported to the server interfaced with the agent, e.g., telephony server . CTI application  can be configured to then, in step , instruct CALLB application  in telephony server  to \u201ctransport\u201d the assigned time slot into telephony server . The transport can, for example, occur by communicating through the ATM switch in telephony server  to telephony server  instructing the latter to listen to the assigned time slot and transmit information received from the agent's terminal  over the assigned time slot.","Next, in step , the ATM card in telephony server  can be configured to dynamically allocate another time slot and use it to transmit what it receives from telephony server  to the agent's terminal . In step , telephony server , e.g., the MSI card on telephony server , can be configured to send the customer voice it receives to the agent's terminal  using the second assigned time slot.","In step , it is determined if the telephone call is still ongoing. If it is, then the process can revert to step . If it is not, then the process can end. A similar process is used to allow the customer to listen to the agent's voice. Therefore, using a process such as the one depicted in , a communication can be established across multiple servers, without a large negative impact on bandwidth.","The ability to transfer calls between servers, even if they are different types of servers or the transfer is from one type of card to another, can be beneficial in recovering when a server or switch in the system goes down. This is because, it can be possible to route communications through an alternative server or switch in the event to of a failure.","The ability to convert between one type of communication and another, e.g., between telephony and IP, can also prove beneficial in this regard. For example, if a plurality of remote agent's are handling telephony calls using telephony equipment, e.g., telephones, and there is a failure in the telephony equipment on the agent's side, then the communication center can simply convert the incoming telephony communications to IP based communications, e.g., VoIP, and continue to route the communications to the agents. The failure can, for example, comprise the failure of a local branch exchange, e.g., PBX, connecting the agents to a telephone company central office.","To aid in effectuating such a change over, i.e., from receiving telephony communications to VoIP, the agents often will need to reconfigure their terminals . This can occur in several ways. For example, an email can be sent to the agents' terminals  requesting that they configure for VoIP, which can for example be accomplished through an interaction manager application . Alternatively, an administrator can go in, e.g., through an administration manger application , and reconfigure the agents' terminals  for VoIP. Another possible approach is to administer the change on a hosted company basis, e.g., through settings associated with particular hosted companies.","Thus, the ability to reroute communications across servers and to convert communication types provides a communication center configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein with a certain amount of resiliency. Resiliency refers to the ability of a system to adapt to changed conditions without any drop off in service. The capabilities described also provide a communication center with a certain amount of scalability, i.e., the ability to scale the size of a system up or down as required. Resiliency and scalability can also be provided using other methods. Some of these methods include software hot backup, web server hot boot, software and\/or hardware redundancy, and default to the rest of the system.","Software hot backup comprises creating two or more instantiations of a particular software application and then configuring one to be the master and the others to be backups. The master and any backup applications both receive messages from other applications and generate responses; however, only the master application actually transmits its response. But if the master application experiences a failure to either the software or the associated hardware, then a backup application can step in and begins transmitting. Ideally, therefore, the master application and any backup applications reside on different servers, e.g., each on its own application server. Thus, if there is a hardware failure, it doesn't cause both the master application and any backup applications to fail.","Such an approach can be further enhanced using a bus architecture such as that described in relation to  and through the use of a LMGR application . As was described above, an LMGR application  can be configured to designate which applications are masters and which are backups. Thus, LMGR application  can ensure that the assigned number of licenses are not exceeded even though backup instantiations of some or all of the applications are being generated.","Further, the associated host server for each application can comprise a bus server application , which receives messages from applications on the same host and broadcasts them over, e.g. a LAN connecting the different hosts. Therefore, if an application generates a message for a master application on a different host, then that message will be broadcast over the LAN by the associated bus server application . Both the master application for which the broadcast message was intended and a backup application can then retrieve the message off the LAN using their BUS server applications . But only the master application can generate a response that is in turn broadcast over the bus. The backup application can generate a response, but until instructed by LMGR application , it does not broadcast its response over the LAN.","LMGR application  can be configured to detect a failure related to a master application in a number of ways. First, the bus server application  associated with the failed master application can detect the failure and report it to LMGR application . Alternatively, an application can detect the failure when it fails to receive a response from the master application and report, e.g., through its bus server application , the failure to LMGR application . In the event of a hardware failure that also effects the bus server application  associated with the master application, other bus server applications  can be configured to detect that the bus server application associated with master application is no longer registered or is not active in the network. This status can then be reported to LMGR . Once LMGR  is made aware of a failure related to the master application, it can instruct the backup application to take over.","In practice, however, there is often a delay between recognition that a failure has effected the master application and notification to the backup application to take over. During this delay, responses and\/or new massages can be missed. Thus, even though the system may not crash immediately, the system state may be corrupted, which can ultimately cause the system to fail. Further, even though a failure has occurred, it can go undetected, meaning the backup application is never instructed to take over.","Thus, in a mission critical environment, e.g., where system failures have severe consequences, resource failure detection should be ensured, regardless of the cause or the situations surrounding it, no response messages should be lost during the transition from a master application to a backup application. A number of different methods can be used in a system configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein to ensure that a resource failure is detected. For example, each application can be configured to periodically request a \u201cstill alive\u201d confirmation from other applications in the system. A cost effective way to implement this is to have each application send a status confirmation to its associated bus server application  upon receiving such a request. Alternatively, applications can automatically confirm their status with other applications. For example, each bus server application  can be configured to automatically confirm its status and the status for any applications running on the same host to all other bus server applications  in the system. Therefore, resource failure can be established dynamically, regardless of the cause of failure.","Once the failure is detected, steps should be undertaken to ensure that no messages are missed during the time it takes the backup application to begin transmitting responses. In order to ensure no messages are missed, applications can be configured to perform message identification and message rewind and real-play. For example, messages can be identified by combining a unique 32-bit application ID number, and a 32-bit message number. By doing so, a backup application can become aware of the last good message that a master application sent, and proceed with its responses from that point, and not any further. Thus, the backup application may need to rewind through its generated, but not sent, messages, until it gets to the last good message sent by the master application and start really playing, or sending, from that point on. This process can be called rewind and real-play.","The duplication of software applications so that there are backups in the system is one form of software redundancy. Others are discussed below. In addition, hardware redundancy can also be beneficial. One form of hardware redundancy has already been discussed, i.e., having multiple servers such as multiple application and\/or telephony servers. Server redundancy can prove beneficial from a resiliency standpoint as well. Additionally, it can be beneficial for servers, or hosts, to have alternate routes of communication with other servers. Thus, for example, redundancy can be built into the LAN itself and bus server applications  can be configured to exploit this redundancy in the event of a failure. In this regard, for example, a bus server application  can maintain a message routing table with all the possible communication routes. If a failure is detected with one route, then an alternate route can be selected from the table and the table can be updated to remove the failed route or to indicate its failed status.","In certain situations, incoming messages or events can be queued and are not acted on immediately. Therefore, a backup application does not necessarily know what messages a corresponding master application is handling and when. To deal with this situation and ensure that the backup application is ready to step in should it be needed, the master application can be configured, upon extracting a message from the queue, to send information related to the extracted message to the backup application. This way, the backup application can keep apprised of the master application's activity and be prepared to step in if needed.","Another form of software redundancy that is similar to software hot boot, is to simply allow duplicate applications to operate in the system as long as their dual operation does not result in conflicting messages. For example, their can be more than one LMGR application  operating at the same time. But each LMGR application  should be implementing the same license limitations. Therefore, it would not cause a conflict if each LMGR application  were simply allowed to operate and send messages related to license limitation oversight. If one LMGR application  fails, then the others will continue to operate and the system will function correctly.","In fact, having multiple LMGR applications  on multiple license servers at multiple sites running at the same time can actually be preferable form a disaster recovery point of view. This is because, even though we can have hardware redundancy and software redundancy, including software hot backup, what happens if the LMGR application  is taken out? By having multiple license server, running in multiple places, correct usage limits can be ensured even if one of the license servers goes down. Thus, in one embodiment each LMGR application , on each license server, can enforce usage limits for a portion of the system, e.g., based on geographic location. But each LMGR application  can also be configured to scan all other LMGR application  to determine global use limits as well as the use limits for each LMGR application . If one of the LMGR application  goes down, the others can take over. And because the LMGR application  are located in different places, preferably for this purpose in different geographic locations, the likelihood that all LMGR application  would go down a the same time can be minimized.","Software hot backup can, for example, be effective at ensuring network zone resiliency. Web server hot boot can be effective at ensuring web zone resiliency. Web server hot boot comprises applying hardware redundancy to the web servers included in a web zone. Thus, for example, more than one web server  can be included in web zone . If a first, primary web server fails, user sessions can be redirected to an alternate web server using a standard DNS server function. Network zone  applications, such as an Internet manager application, can be configured to load the alternate web server with all the information that it needs to operate effectively.","But it can be preferable, from a system security point of view, to establish the identity of communication personnel once they are interfaced with the alternative web server. The user session ID described above can, for example, be used for this purpose. Such a user session ID can, in certain implementations, be formed with a 32-bit web host ID number associated with the primary web server, and a 32 hit random number. When the user then tries to use this user session ID to authenticate himself to the alternative web server, the alternative web server can be configured to allow the user's session to persist until it can verify with an Internet Manager application whether that user session ID is valid. If the user session ID is invalid, then the user can, for example, be forwarded to a logout screen.","If, on the other hand, the user session ID is valid, then a similar approach to the software hot backup approach can be followed. For example, in web server hot boot, an Internet Manager application can send information to the new web server, i.e., hot boot the new web server, based on a calculated failure point for the first web server. In software hot backup, an application's failure point can be established using the methods described above. In web server hot boot, an Internet Manager application can establish a web server's failure time by identifying the last \u201caction\u201d it received from a user.","For its part, a user application can establish the web server's failure time by identifying the last time it received a ping\/action response. Thus, both the Internet manager application and the user's application can be configured to rewind and re-play, which is not necessarily the same thing as real-play, the messages to the new web server. Additionally, the Internet manager application can be configured to send user state messages to the new web server to update the user's application with the latest system information. Therefore, despite a web server's failure, communication context can be preserved, communication loss can be prevented, and the user can be prevented from even being aware of the failure.","Because it can be ensured, using the methods just described, that a communication system can remain up and running indefinitely, i.e., failures detected and backups in place, it is possible to allow applications to be started, stopped, and configured using, e.g., a network manager application in real-time. In fact, after receiving a configuration message, an application can be configured to immediately start behaving differently based on the received configuration message. Accordingly, a system, such as a communication center  can avoid being shut down to implement, for example, a system up or downgrade. In other words, it can at least theoretically be possible to keep the system up and running perpetually. This can have significant consequences for mission critical systems that must be up and running at all times.","While certain embodiments of the inventions have been described above, it will be understood that the embodiments described are by way of example only. Accordingly, the inventions should not be limited based on the described embodiments. Rather, the scope of the inventions described herein should only be limited in light of the claims that follow when taken in conjunction with the above description and accompanying drawings."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Features, aspects, and embodiments of the inventions are described in conjunction with the attached drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 15A","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 15B","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
