---
title: Decision support system for the management of energy use, contracting and capital investments for facilities
abstract: Disclosed herein is an energy management decision support system and methods for asset managers of buildings and facilities that can utilize energy usage data captured from meters, such as smart meters, and weather data to provide a systems-based cost reduction and optimization solution for end users. Building system components may be highly inter-dependent and changes to one system element can have substantial effects (positive and negative) upon other system elements. As described in further detail herein, system and method embodiments according to the present disclosure may apply predefined criteria to such building energy usage data to identify energy usage variances, and may graphically present to a user the identified energy usage variances. As a result, facility administrators are provided with more easily interpretable energy usage information. Such information may be applied by the administrators for adjusting operations, upgrading building equipment, or retrofitting building equipment to improve building efficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583531&OS=08583531&RS=08583531
owner: 
number: 08583531
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20111123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Data Collection","Virtual Building Tools","Implementation of System and Method Embodiments"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/417,007, filed Nov. 24, 2010; the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The presently disclosed subject matter provides a comprehensive and interdependent system of evaluation of historic and predicted energy use, costs associated with energy use and risk adjusted economic impacts from facility equipment upgrades and\/or replacements to support management operational and capital investment decisions designed to optimize facility performance.","Energy management is critical for environmentally conscious, cost-effective operation of buildings and facilities where, for example, central heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) and various other facilities' equipment may be used. There are a wide range of building management systems that exist today that can provide facility operations staff with individual equipment control and information on real-time operational status of equipment and short interval energy usage.","However, energy use and equipment information is most frequently provided in such a way that critical information, including systemic operational and cost issues, is not evaluated and presented in a manner easily interpretable by operations staff and management. Consequently, operations staff and management are not able to comprehensively identify issues that reoccur under similar conditions and make appropriate corrective decisions regarding equipment control, maintenance and equipment investments. Given a lack of comprehensive decision support tools, staff are also unable to determine the effects of suboptimal performance on power contracting and regulated utility tariffs. Accordingly, there is a need for improved energy management decision support systems and techniques for operators and management that account for the interdependencies between operations, power contracting\/tariff optimization, and capital equipment improvements.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Disclosed herein are energy management decision support systems and methods for buildings and facilities that can utilize energy usage data captured from meters, such as smart meters, and weather data to provide a systems-based cost reduction and optimization solution for end users. Building system components may be highly inter-dependent and changes to one system element can have substantial effects (positive and negative) upon other system elements. As described in further detail herein, system and method embodiments according to the present disclosure may apply predefined criteria to such building energy usage data to identify energy usage variances, and may graphically present to a user the identified energy usage variances. As a result, facility administrators are provided with more easily interpretable energy usage information. Such information may be applied by the administrators for adjusting operations, upgrading building equipment, or retrofitting building equipment to improve building energy usage.","In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, an example method is provided for assessing performance of a building and for providing an operation and financial decision support system. The method includes receiving time-based energy use, weather, cost, and operations data associated with the building. The method also includes analyzing the data for consistency and continuity across a time interval. Further, the method includes interpolating time-based polynomial equations derived from the energy use and weather data to generate a completed data set from the received data. The method also includes performing multiple, dynamic matrixed data processes to identify and prioritize by cost and frequency, operational periods, weather conditions, and equipment configurations that result in inefficient and costly operations. Further, the method includes generating a dynamic, user-controlled multi-variate and relational visualization feedback interface based on the data and the building model for indicating patterns of suboptimal and costly performance. The method also includes presenting to an operator at least one recommendation based on the data and the building model for improving building performance through one or more actions.","In accordance with other embodiments of the present disclosure, a method is disclosed for simulating energy use associated with a building to test one or more actions for implementation by an operator in order to test the economic effects of changes to proposed building operations and capital equipment investment. The method includes generating derived polynomial equations using time-based forecast data grouped by clustering techniques for meeting a fit and minimal variance criteria. Further, the method includes determining a statistical distribution of residual variance from observed conditions for each derived polynomial equation. The method also includes estimating static efficiency and performance improvement effects from changes to one of operations and equipment of a building model. Further, the method includes incorporating proposed building operations and equipment change estimates into a simulation process using the derived polynomial equations and residual variance distributions for comparing economic range of the effects and risk of proposed changes to equipment investment in a building associated with the building model. The method also includes presenting to an operator prioritized investment recommendations based on economic returns and resultant variability risk data produced by the simulation process.","In accordance with other embodiments of the present disclosure, a method is disclosed for providing a model of an actual building and associated predicted building energy usage. For example, a suitable computer may include an application configured to model the building and predicted building energy usage. The method may also include receiving data indicating actual building energy usage and weather associated with the actual building energy usage for the actual building. Further, the method may include determining variances between the actual building energy usage and predicted building energy usage. The model may be used to simulate changes to building operation and\/or building equipment of the actual building based on the variances for determining a probability adjusted outcome of building energy used and costs. The method may also include presenting to a user the probability adjusted outcome of building energy used and costs of changing the building operation and\/or building equipment.","The presently disclosed subject matter is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However, the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather, the inventor has contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways, to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document, in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover, although the term \u201cstep\u201d may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed, the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.","Embodiments of the present energy management decision support system (DSS) disclosure include: 1) data collection tools and methods; 2) analytics, simulation, forecasting and self benchmarking tools; and 3) dynamic, visual multi-variate user interfaces that may be used by building and facility administrators to identify issues and opportunities within operations, power contracting, tariff optimization, and probability-adjusted, return-based upgrades and retrofits. By use of these tools, administrators may evaluate building performance holistically and arrive at informed decisions that optimally improve building energy performance by reducing usage, lowering costs, and enhancing sustainability.","The energy management decision support system and associated tools disclosed herein can be implemented by a suitable computer and can be used to identify patterns and variances in energy usage and demand. The tools can compare these patterns and variances with building performance under similar conditions as well as other buildings within the same industry and\/or configuration.","The virtual building (simulation) tool can be implemented by a suitable computer and can mathematically model an actual building for testing the building under a range of seasonal, monthly, day of week, time of day, and weather parameters. The behavior may be modeled as multiple probability distributions tied to weather characteristics and historical energy usage and demand. With generation of a base virtual building model that responds similarly to the actual building, changes can then be made to the existing equipment configuration with the benefits claimed by vendors tested against the actual building to determine effects on costs and a probability adjusted, cash based net present value. This valuation and its riskiness (e.g., variability) can be ranked among alternatives to prioritize a building investment plan. Effects to changes to equipment can also be applied to a power procurement strategy, tariff optimization and potential changes to operations.","The virtual building (simulation) tool can also be used to forecast energy use and demand over the range of long term weather forecasts provided by official and private sources. As an example, the U.S. National Weather Service provides a continually updated 7-day weather forecast over a range of parameters. The virtual building tool built from algorithms that accurately predict energy and demand levels based on weather conditions can continuously generate, for example, 7-day forecasts of energy use and demand for a building. Building operators and administrators can use this energy forecasting to plan operations, maintenance and identify predicted \u201cproblem\u201d days of high use or variance and take preemptive action to avoid adverse energy use and cost consequences.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","101","102","103","100","100","100","102","103","100"]},"Data collection and conditioning processes are disclosed herein for providing inputs for the energy management DSS and can be important for deriving useful and accurate analytics and dynamic visual feedback to a user via the interface . Data may be collected from a range of sources including the Internet, from one or more smart meters, and\/or other suitable sources, and subsequently matched for date and time. Data collected from meters and from weather sources may have discrepancies and missing elements. In the case of discrepancies and missing elements, the data may be conditioned  as shown in the example method of data collection shown in  in order to ensure complete consistency and continuity for all time series data over the full time interval. Once the data is conditioned and complete, the data may be imported into an electronic relational database.","The steps of  may be implemented by the data collection and conditioning functions  shown in . Referring to the example of , various historical and forecast weather data  including, but not limited to temperature, degree day, dew point, cloudiness, wind speed, or other weather historical and forecast data, may be collected from the Internet  and\/or other sources, and subsequently compiled into a weather data collection . Further, energy use data , energy production data , and other various data  may be collected from one or more smart meters . Example energy use data includes, but is not limited to, electricity, steam, chilled water, natural gas, fuel oil data and the like. Example energy production data includes, but is not limited to, solar, wind, diesel, turbine generator, and the like. Various other example data includes, but is not limited to, data transfer, water use, water discharge data, and the like. Such data may be compiled into a flow data collection . The various data may be collected at suitable intervals  and date and time information  may be used to match the weather data  and the flow data . Interval data is tagged with other interval information including, but not limited to, hour, minute, day, day of week, month, season, year, utility-defined peak and off-peak periods and building specific occupied and unoccupied periods. Subsequently, the data may be conditioned  to provide a clean and complete relational database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["101","100","200","300","300","302","304","304"]},"Data Conditioning\u2014Weather","At steps  and  of , the imported weather data may be tested and flagged for missing and\/or duplicated entrees. For example, at step , missing data (e.g., dates and times) may be identified. Further, at step , duplicate data (e.g., dates and times) may be identified, and the duplicate data removed  from the original database of imported weather data. At step  of , a missing data request may be transmitted to alternative Internet-based weather sources . For example, the data request may be sent to weather stations geographically situated near the principal airport-based weather station initially queried for supplemental data. In step  and , the missing data is retrieved, imported, and retested to determine whether the data is complete and continuous. In response to determining that the data is not complete, the process may return to step  for attempting another data request for the missing data. In response to determining that the data is complete, the process may proceed to step , which includes combining the new data from sources  and the non-duplicate data into a continuous series. For example, at step , non-duplicate data from the initial query, additional data from alternative Internet-based sources may be combined into a new and complete weather database.","Once the weather data set is complete through step  of , the data conditioning process can generate daily weather functions to create a new database where weather data can be exactly matched with the same intervals of flow data retrieved during the data collection processes  described with respect to .","At step  of , cleaned and complete one-dimensional weather data may be imported that resulted from the previous steps of . In step  of , the data may be converted into a multi-dimensional matrix where data is grouped by days.","At step  of , the time of each daily data point may be converted to a fraction of the day (e.g., noon is 0.5) for each day. The times (with weather data) may not be the same for every day. The fractional divisions for each day may be stored in a matrix. Also at step  of , weather data may be separated from the original matrix and grouped by day.","At step  of , multi-polynomial weather interpolation functions may then be created for each day with the dependent variable being the weather value and the independent variable being the fraction of the 24-hour day. The result is that the weather path for each day is now represented by a series of unique functions that pass through each actual measured point for each day. It is noted that operations may now be performed on the daily weather functions (e.g., integration, derivation, interpolation, and the like) for evaluating separately manipulated energy data.","In step  of , the weather data (e.g., temperature) may then be converted to a differential form, for example, with 65\u00b0 F. as the reference point (which is the convention). For days with temperatures above 65\u00b0 F., cooling may be required, whereas temperatures below 65\u00b0 F. may generally require some heating. Also, at step  of , the weather functions (e.g. temperature) may then be integrated to determine the fractional degree day (area under functional curve) at 15 minute intervals or any other suitable interval. Subsequently, clean and complete data may be imported into an SQL server (step ).","An example purpose of this method is to match temperature and fractional degree days sourced from reliable sources (e.g., airport weather stations) with interval (15 minute interval) energy data recordings when the temperature is not in the same form or on the same intervals as the energy measurements.","Data Conditioning\u2014Flow Data",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["101","100","200","400","212"]},"Subsequently, the imported and matrixed database of interval flow data is tested and flagged for missing data (step ) and duplicate entries (step ). Subsequently, the duplicated data is cleansed from the database (step ) and missing data is generated (step ) if the interval between observed data points is less than, for example, two hours. If the gap between observed flow data measurements is greater than two hours, then integers are substituted for the missing points at zero or greater value depending on the base energy demand levels.","At step  of , non-duplicate data from the initial query, and additional generated data are combined into a new and complete flow data database. At step , the complete and continuous flow data series may be imported into a SQL server database.","Analytics, Simulation, Forecasting and Benchmarking Tools","System and method embodiments are disclosed that provide energy management tools for building and facility administrators. Generally, in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, a system can implement a step of receiving building energy usage data. For example, a meter may be used for obtaining building energy usage data over a period of time. The system may also apply predefined criteria to the building energy usage data to identify energy usage variances. Further, the system may include a dynamic user interface including, but not limited to, a display for graphically presenting to a user the identified energy usage variances. For example, the received building energy usage data may indicate a day and time of day when the energy usage data was captured. Further, in this example, the system may display a multi-dimensional surface plot having axes corresponding to the day, the time of day, and energy usage associated with the day and time of day.","Energy Demand Visualization and Temperature Heat Map","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may present to a user energy, date, time and weather data. For example,  is a flow chart of an example method for presenting energy demand and temperature heat map data according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , initially, energy data (step ) and temperature data (step ) organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) may be imported into a three-dimensional (3D) visualizer and dynamic user interface.","At step  of , a 3D surface plot may be created with axes identified as Date (y), Time of Day (x) and kW (z) (or other suitable flow data such as kBtus). The organization of the data and 3D representation allows for identification of desirable\/undesirable patterns of use where the building's energy use differs from other similar periods. Given use profiles typical for the industry, differences can also be determined. The relative values of kW (z axis) may be color coded to more quickly and accurately compare intraday and across days, months and seasons.","At step  of , interpolated interval (e.g., 15 minute) temperature data may be transformed into a two-dimensional (2D) heat map with the highest values red and the lowest values blue and values in between represented as a proportional spectrum between the two colors. Colors can change intraday depending on the interpolated temperature data and across days. The relative values and colors may be consistently applied across the full time period (e.g., a year in most examples) so that a 60\u00b0 F. temperature, for example, is the same color across the full time range.","At step  of , the 3D and 2D plot may be combined in a mashup so that changes in energy demand can be compared with relative temperature as the plots are aligned in 3D space. In an example, the dynamic user interface controls allow for rotating the mashup in 3D space to evaluate demand and temperature effects from all possible perspectives. In another example, the interface may also allow for the full date range to be dynamically adjusted to focus on the full range, a month, week or a single day. The hours of the day can also be adjusted so that, for example, the first 6 hours of the day can be more closely evaluated, or the midday or last part of the day. In another example, opacity of the 3D plot can be adjusted so that the 2D heat map is more visible and more detailed evaluations can be made across demand and temperature. In another example, date and time can be adjusted together, and this feature may be a zoom-in\/zoom-out type of feature. In another example, individual days of the week can be selected such that, for example, weekend days can be compared in isolation from weekdays. In another example, relative colors may adjust automatically depending on the date and time ranges selected. The colors may adjust to the new, adjusted set of data.","In yet another example, as a facility may have more than one interval flow meter, individual meters may be toggled on and off so that the data can be looked at in aggregate or by meter. Individual meters can also be compared to each other where the 3D representation shows multiple 3D surface plots corresponding to each meter. This way the relative values of each meter over time and temperature can be compared and conclusions drawn due to their positioning. When meters are plotted separately and against each other they are coded by a single distinct color.","In another example, a comparison plane can also be created that plots a single horizontal plane at a user defined level. The plan is semi-transparent so the user can determine the periods above and below this level to understand the frequency and conditions of high and low levels of energy use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"]},"2D Energy Density (Heat Map) Visualization","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may present to a user visualization of 2D energy density (heat map). For example,  is a flow chart of an example method for visualization of 2D energy density (heat map) according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , in an initial step , energy and temperature data organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) may be imported into a dynamic user interface and 2D visualizer.","At step  of , the relative energy demand values are color coded as with the kW (z values) for the 3D visualization. For example,  depicts a screen display of a dynamic user interface that includes an example graphical representation of relative energy demand according to embodiments of the present disclosure. This representation provides more precise clues as to changing daily schedules and startups and how consistent and disciplined the building management team is in managing equipment.","The screen display of  also shows a dynamic control interface. For example, the interface may be interacted with by a user to dynamically adjust the date range and time of day to allow for more precise inspection of energy use. This feature is a zoom-in\/zoom-out type of feature. If there are multiple interval flow meters at a facility, the user can select whether the data is to be evaluated in aggregate or by individual meter.","Daily Usage Profile Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may present to a user a daily usage profile for a building. For example,  illustrates a flow chart of an example method for presenting multiple daily usage profiles for a building according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , energy data (step ) and temperature data (step ) organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) may be imported.","At step  of , daily demand (kW) profiles (intraday) may be organized by \u201cschedules\u201d unique to the particular industry sector. For example, commercial office building equipment and tenant use patterns typically follow four (4) separate schedules: Mondays, Tuesdays-Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. At step  of , in the representation for Mondays, all Monday daily profiles for the date range may be shown overlaid on a single graph.","At step  of , total daily degree days as calculated in the previously discussed temperature and function processes, may be binned into a statistical histogram for the defined date range. Particularly, the bin range (e.g., 10 degree days) can be established since building behavior (e.g. energy use) changes with increasing or decreasing ambient air temperature.","At step  of , a cumulative degree day probability function (CDF) may be created based on the distribution of binned degree days in the histogram.","At step  of , a user may dynamically select the comparison confidence levels (probability bounds). For example, if the user would like to isolate (by color) the 10% hottest days and the 10% coldest days, the tool will adjust the coloring (discussed in next step). The user may, for example, select any probability band between >0 and 1.","At step  of , within each of the different schedules (and graphical representations), the color of the daily demand profiles can change based on the user's input for degree day comparison. Those days (across all schedules) that are above the upper probability are colored red (hottest). Those days (also across all schedules) that are below the lower probability are colored blue (coldest). The days between the lower and upper probability bands are colored green. As with the previous tools, the user can dynamically adjust the date range. The degree day histogram will also change with a modified date range to accurately represent the \u201cnew\u201d distribution of daily degree days. For each defined schedule and the user adjusted time interval, maximum and minimum degree days are shown to illustrate the temperature range. If there are multiple interval flow meters at a facility, the user can select whether the data is to be evaluated in aggregate or by individual meter.","This tool allows for the building to be compared with itself (self benchmarked) under similar conditions (schedules and degree days). The user is able to determine desirable\/undesirable patterns and variances based on actual building performance and when compared with similar industry facilities. For example,  depicts a screen display of a dynamic user interface showing an example graphical representation of daily profiles by day of week according to embodiments of the present disclosure. The screen display of  also shows a dynamic control interface for interaction by a user.","Cost and Savings Potential Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for presenting cost and savings potential information. For example,  illustrates a flow chart of an example method for presenting cost and savings potential information according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , energy data (step ) and temperature data (step ) organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) are imported.","At step  of , energy daily data may be organized into the four (4) schedules as mentioned in other benchmarking tool descriptions disclosed herein. At step  of , daily degree days may also be organized by the four (4) schedules.","At step  of , energy data may be organized by degree day bin based on the calculated degree days for each day within the date range and for each schedule. Basic statistics may be calculated for each schedule and sub-bin (e.g. min, max, median, mode, standard deviation, # of days in sub-bin, etc.). At step  of , within each sub-bin (schedule, then degree day band), total daily energy use may be ranked from high to low and assigned a quantile. At step , a user may dynamically select quantile for comparison. If the user wants to compare all days that fall within the sub-bins with the first decile, then that kWh may be selected as the comparison point. At step , all days above kWh level selected in step  above may be reduced to the quantile kWh level and all days with kWh below this level remain as is.","At step  of , a \u201cnew\u201d total kWh amount may be calculated based on the quantile. The point is that the building has performed at this level and if the building can reach that same level under similar conditions, then kWh could be reduced by the difference between what was actually consumed and the new quantile level. The purpose of using a statistical comparison point is, at the very least, to allow the opportunity to remove outliers that are not appropriate for comparison. For example, the Friday after Thanksgiving is typically one of the days (within the Tuesday-Friday schedule) with the lowest level of energy use. It may not be appropriate to compare all Tuesday-Fridays (at the degree day bin) with this level as it is essentially a holiday.","At step  of , the actual costs of energy per kWh may then be multiplied by the difference between actually used (as organized above) and the \u201cnew\u201d kWh level to arrive at a potential savings at the defined quantile. This gives the client a perspective on the value of more disciplined performance either driven by changes to operation or equipment, reduced variability.  depicts a screen display of a dynamic user interface and various comparison tables of such data in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The screen display of  also shows a dynamic control interface.","Theoretical Costs and Savings Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for presenting theoretical cost and savings potential information. For example,  illustrates a flow chart of an example method for analyzing theoretical cost and savings potential information according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , at step , energy data organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) is imported. At step  of , energy intra-day data is organized by season and into the four (4) operational schedules previously mentioned (i.e. Monday, Tuesdays-Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays).","At step  of , the user may adjust electronic \u201cpushpins\u201d that result in new levels of comparison to historical demand profiles. Further, at step , the dynamically adjusted \u201cpushpins\u201d create \u201cnew\u201d profiles for each schedule and season for a total of 16 \u201cnew\u201d profiles. High and low intraday curves are also created and the user can adjust the percentages the high and low curves are to be from the dynamically adjusted new curve. At step  of , energy differences may be calculated from historic daily profiles from the newly created curve and the high and low curves. At step  of , results may be summarized for the last 365 days by schedule and season showing the expected theoretical changes and high and low values.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"]},"Energy Usage versus Temperature Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for presenting energy use patterns versus external weather conditions. For example,  illustrates a flow chart of an example method for evaluating and determining the patterns between daily energy use by day of week and accumulated daily degree days. Referring to , at step , total energy use per day may be calculated from the smart meter interval data. At step , temperature data may be selected that matches each of the individual days.","At step  of , totaled daily energy is grouped by schedule (e.g. Monday, Tuesday-Friday, Saturday and Sunday) and color coded. At step , total daily degree days are calculated for each day of the full date time interval.","At step  of , daily energy use and daily degree days are combined and plotted on axes of energy versus degree days. Cooling degree days are to the right of the vertical axis and heating degree days are to the left of the vertical axis.","At step  of , clear patterns of increasing and decreasing energy use as it relates to outside air temperature conditions can be viewed. Shapes (e.g. asymmetric \u201csmiles\u201d) for each day of week schedule are expected. Substantial and predictable reductions in energy use when degree days are near the vertical axis are most common and desired. When distinct patterns are not visible, the building is not frequently operating as efficiently as possible and can be indications of improperly programmed building cooling and heating setpoints. In addition, large variances in energy use over narrow degree day ranges can indicate that the building does not consistently respond to similar day of week and outside weather conditions. These can be lead indicators (e.g. markers) of control system and\/or internal sensor issues and improper electronic feedback mechanisms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"]},"Capacity Utilization Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for presenting capacity utilization information. For example,  is a flow chart of an example method for presenting capacity utilization information according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , step , energy and temperature data organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) is imported. At step  of , a user may select a comparison interval which causes full range of data to be organized by month (28 days), weeks (7 days) or days.","At step  of , a load factor may be calculated for each interval. For example, load factor may equal (actual kWh consumed)\/(kWh that would have been consumed if operated at peak kW for entire interval). A load factor of 1 may indicate the same level of use (kWh) for every hour at a 24\/7 manufacturing facility. A low load factor indicates that the load is not efficient in its use of power and may have spikes of high kW, but operates at much lower levels throughout the interval. This is important from a cost of power standpoint as the more \u201cpeaky\u201d a load the higher the price due to the uncertainty of demand as viewed by the power supplier\/utility.","At step  of , costs for kWh and kW calculated for intervals based on actual power contract and regulated tariffs. Uniquely established for each building based on its physical location and regulated utility and, if in a competitive power market, the actual contract cost of power per kWh.","At step  of , a dynamic user interface and 3D visualization created that for each interval may show various information. For example, the following information may be shown: load factor versus kWh consumed; load factor versus date; energy use (kWh) versus date; median levels for each of 3 dimensions for Load Factor, kWh and date; and total costs for power (kW and kWh) for each interval is represented by the size of the individual sphere. Using a mouse to move a cursor over the sphere shows the expected costs for kW and kWh for the period represented by the sphere. Other information shown may include a breakdown of costs for kW and kWh that shows how they interrelate over the different date intervals.","An example purpose of this tool is to provide insight into the efficiency of the building equipment usage and potential seasonality. Commercial office buildings typically have load factors between 50 and 55%. A too low load factor drives higher costs per kW, whereas a very high load factor indicates that too many kWh are being used, generally in off peak periods. Buildings and load factors typically follow a seasonal pattern so comparisons are also made with industry standards.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},"Demand Management Analysis Tool","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for demand management analysis. For example,  is a flow chart of an example method for demand management analysis according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , at step , energy data organized into multidimensional matrices (as per previous processes) may be imported. At step  of , a user may select a time interval (e.g., monthly, weekly or daily).","At step  of , a load duration curve may be created for each interval over the full date range. Particularly, for example, a load duration curve may organize the demand levels (kW) into bins (high to low) and then a percentage of the total period is determine by which the load is at or above the bin. Further, for example, a particular building might for 100% of the defined interval be above 300 kW, but for 1% of the interval it is at or above 1,000 kW. A curve may be created that shows these characteristics for the interval.","At step  of , a subinterval may be selected by the user (e.g. 2%) where the first derivative is calculated over this subinterval to determine the rate of decline from the highest levels of demand (kW) use.","At step  of , the load duration curves may be ranked based on those curves (intervals) with the greatest decline over the shortest interval. The steepest decline may represent the interval that was the \u201cpeakiest\u201d for the shortest period of time. Short lived peaks may identify opportunities for more enhanced load (kW) management that have direct (and usually large) cost reduction potential for tariffs and competitive power contracts.","At step  of , a visualization may be created that shows the actual daily profiles for selected interval based on the above rank. For example,  depicts a screen display a dynamic user interface and visualization provides for demand analysis in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. Peaky patterns (and when they occurred) are clearly identified. The screen display of  shows a dynamic user interface.","Inter-building Evaluation Tools","The analytics, simulation, forecasting and benchmarking tools  of the energy management DSS  shown in  may provide a tool for presenting building performance statistics allowing for inter-building benchmarking comparison of similar types of buildings across key measures. While other building analytical and visualization tools presented in this application compare the building against itself (e.g. intra-building benchmarking), substantial insight can be gained into the magnitude of identified issues through comparisons with other buildings.  is a flow chart of an example method for inter building benchmarking across similar type buildings according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , step , energy data is grouped by building. At step , individual building data is grouped by season and key normalized analysis performed. Normalization is important to allow for differences in building size to be minimized and appropriate comparisons made.","At step  of , building performance is compared with other similar buildings in a distribution plot also showing the mean values and +1 standard deviation and \u22121 standard deviation. All other similar buildings in the database are shown in blue and only identified by number and value. An individual (targeted) building is defined by the user and shown in red. The plots are grouped by season lessening the effects of seasonal temperature changes.","At step  of , the user may define a broader range of buildings to compare by inputting the building numbers. This will allow for a user with more than one building to evaluate their performance against the portfolio and other buildings in the broader database. For example,  depicts a screen display showing a dynamic user interface and visualization for inter-building benchmarking and issue identification across key measures.","System and method embodiments are disclosed that provide virtual building tools for use in modeling of an actual building and associated predicted building energy usage. For example, a suitable computer may include an application configured to model the building and predicted building energy usage. The method may also include receiving data indicating actual building energy usage and weather associated with the actual building energy usage for the actual building. Further, the method may include determining variances between the actual building energy usage and predicted building energy usage. The model may be used to simulate changes to building operation and\/or building equipment of the actual building based on the variances for determining a probability adjusted outcome of building energy used and costs. The method may also include presenting to a user the probability adjusted outcome of building energy used and costs of changing the building operation and\/or building equipment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 1","FIG. 23"],"b":["102","100","2300","2301"]},"At step  of , energy functional curves may be created for periods (months, seasons, and\/or degree day levels) where there is a distinct change in building response to ambient air temperature. At step , the functional curves, derived from actual data, may then be evaluated against a level of fit methodology to determine if the type of curve accurately represents the building's behavior.","At step  of , variances between actual energy use and the derived and predicted value may be determined. The variances may be evaluated and clustered in order to more accurately account for variances (step ). Subsequently, the distributions of the variances may then be calculated (e.g. linear, normal, lognormal, etc.) (step ) and outliers evaluated (step ). Extreme outliers may be removed from the analysis and\/or drive adjustments to the distribution bounds (step ).","At step  of , with multiple functions, defined over data driven intervals (could vary significantly from building to building), probability distributions of the variances between actual and derived, a Monte Carlo simulation may be conducted that simulates the building behavior over a historically driven range of temperatures. The result may be a distribution of total kWh that could be expected based on the variability of the actual building to ambient air temperature. Costs per kWh are then applied to determine range of energy costs.","With a base virtual building \u201ccreated\u201d, adjustment can then be made to the functions and variance distributions based on potential changes to the building operation and\/or equipment upgrades\/retrofits and their stated impact (as provided by the vendors) and multiple simulation runs conducted to determine a probability adjusted outcome of kWh used and costs. This type of simulation then allows for a ranking of individual capital projects by risk (greater to lower variability).","The virtual building mentioned according to embodiments of the present disclosure, can also be used to derive a \u201crolling\u201d demand and energy forecast for the building as illustrated in the flow chart . The same algorithms and methods used to create the virtual building tool can be applied with discrete weather parameters presented in a, for example, 7 day weather forecast from the National Weather Service or other such meteorological prediction service. Referring to , at step , the extended term (e.g. typically 7 day) weather forecast is electronically requested automatically through an application programming interface (e.g. api) for a building's latitude and longitude. A range of available weather parameters is requested. The forecast may be requested from an Internet weather forecasting source .","At step  of , an electronic 7 day extended weather forecast is received with predication points of greater frequency for the nearest upcoming days and less frequency for the days at the end of the extended forecast. The data is organized by date and parameter (e.g. temperature, dew point temperature, wind speed and sunniness\/cloudiness). Note that building memory is accounted for by time shifting the data to allow for the impact of a \u201cstring\u201d of warm or cold days.","At step  of , the most relevant weather information depending on type of day and seasonal period in imported into the building simulation tool (e.g. EnergySim ), as described in , and energy and demand predictions are made for each of the days of the extended weather forecast in step  of . Confidence intervals are also created that show the expected range of energy and demand by day.","At step  of , the forecast of energy, demand and confidence intervals is used to proactively approach the upcoming 7 day operational schedule regarding preventative and planned maintenance. Building administrators can also consider adjusting programmed setpoints depending on the 7 day forecast to achieve lower energy and demand use. Predicted days with wide confidence levels can be flagged and drive greater administrator focus to ensure the best possible result (e.g. lowest energy and demand use). The user can utilize this information for near future operations and maintenance planning (step ).","The various techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or, where appropriate, with a combination of both. Thus, the methods and apparatus of the disclosed embodiments, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium, wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computer will generally include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language, and combined with hardware implementations.","The described methods and apparatus may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium, such as over electrical wiring or cabling, through fiber optics, or via any other form of transmission, wherein, when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine, such as an EPROM, a gate array, a programmable logic device (PLD), a client computer, a video recorder or the like, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. When implemented on a general-purpose processor, the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the processing of the presently disclosed subject matter.","While the embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures, it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Therefore, the disclosed embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment, but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purposes of illustration, there is shown in the drawings exemplary embodiments; however, the presently disclosed subject matter is not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
