---
title: Providing targeted content to users based on user interests
abstract: Methods for targeting content based on user interests. A graphical user interface may be provided to a first user. A plurality of interest categories may be displayed to the first user through the graphical user interface. An indication of a first category selected from the plurality of interest categories may be received from the first user. Upon receiving the indication of the first category, a plurality of sub-categories of the first interest category may be displayed to the first user through the graphical user interface. Additionally, an indication of at least one selected sub-category chosen from the plurality of sub-categories may be received from the first user. A first plurality of content items based on the at least one selected sub-category may be selected. The first plurality of content items may be provided to the first user through the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08478646&OS=08478646&RS=08478646
owner: Democracyontheweb, LLC
number: 08478646
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110404
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION"],"p":["One of the primary uses of the Internet is content provision. Content may include any kind of content accessible via the Internet including, for example, textual content items, multimedia content items, etc. Content providers distribute, and sometimes also generate, content items that are made accessible to Internet users (e.g., content consumers). One of the greatest difficulties for users and content providers alike is determining the content items that any particular user is interested in receiving. It is known to address this problem by generating, by and\/or for each user, a user profile. The user profile is an indication of the user's specific interests, which may then be matched with specific content items to be provided to the user.","There are two known ways for generating user profiles. In one method, user profiles are generated automatically based on the behavior of the user. For example, if a user visits a web site at which he or she makes a purchase, the kind of object purchased is stored and the user is presumed to have an interest in other things like the ones they have purchased. This indirect method is outside user control and prone to error. For example, a person buying gifts for others would likely be profiled as being a user of the products purchased. The method also fails in terms of what it remembers. A user whose interests change over time can be characterized by a profile based in part on past interests that they have given up.","Another known way to generate user profiles involves allowing the user to select interests from broad categories. In this method, the user selects very general interests (such as in News, Sports, etc), like selecting which newspaper sections they read or TV networks they watch. This approach is user driven, but is not specific. Often this is because of the difficulty of enticing users to make the time commitment necessary to submit detailed information. Further concerns about privacy make some users reluctant to provide more detailed information. Accordingly, the profiles that emerge from this method often do not provide a sufficiently precise guide to the specific information the user would like to receive.","Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for targeting content based on user interests. For example, a graphical user interface (GUI) may be provided to the user by a computer system. The GUI may be directed to a specific class of interests (e.g., designed to attract a specific type of user.) For example, the GUI may be directed to, and may provide content items related to, current events and\/or politics. For example, the GUI may provide content items related to public issues or news topic, political figures, candidates, political institutions, geographic localities (including countries), organizations, pundits such as columnists, bloggers and cartoonists, media programs, such as television programs, radio programs, Internet broadcast programs, etc. In other embodiments, the GUI may be directed to sports and\/or a particular sport or any other class of interests of a user or users. It will be appreciated that although the GUI is described herein as a graphical user interface, it may be presented to a user or users in any graphical, textual or other suitable form or format.","To generate a user's profile, the computer system may prompt the user, through the GUI, to provide detailed user information. For example, the computer system may present to the user, through the GUI, an indication of a plurality of potential interests. Each potential interest may describe an interest that may be correlated to content items that the user may want to receive. The user may select one or more of the potential interests via the GUI. Upon receiving a selected interest category, the computer system may provide, e.g., via the GUI, indications of a plurality of sub-categories of the selected potential interest. The user may select one or more of the sub-categories again, for example, via the GUI. The selected sub-categories and, in some embodiments, the selected potential interest may form all or a part of the user's profile. The user's profile may, in turn, be utilized by the computer system to select content items that may be of interest to the user. Accordingly, the user may maintain control over at least a portion of the contents of the user profile. At the same time, however, the nested nature of the interests may allow the user to quickly and efficiently provide interest information that is detailed enough to identify meaningful content of interest.","In some embodiments, the computer system (e.g., via the GUI) may provide various functionalities in addition to content provision. For example, the computer system may provide functionality for matching and facilitating interaction between users having similar interests, discussion boards allowing users to discuss interests, and information and\/or advertisements that may direct the users to products, offers and\/or opportunities that may be of interest to the user. In some embodiments, this additional functionality may provide users with additional motivation to provide detailed user profiles.","In various embodiments, the computer system may provide users with functionality for finding other users for interaction and\/or for sharing content items. For example, a user may utilize the GUI to identify other users having similar interests (e.g., based on the user's profile). Such users may be referred to as friends. Users may be provided with functionality for sending or posting messages either to a particular friend or group of friends. Also, for example, users that are friends may have access to common resources through the GUI. Such resources may include, for example, messages or posts provided by one of the users, other content items, etc. Also, in various embodiments, the computer system may provide, through the GUI, a forum section allowing users to post and\/or respond to messages accessible to all or a large portion of other users (e.g., not just friend users).","According to various embodiments, the computer system may provide information and\/or advertisements to users through the GUI based, for example, on the user profile developed as described herein. Advertisements may be provided to users in various forms and formats. For example, the computer system may receive advertisement content from advertisers. Each user's profile may be used to match the user with advertisement content, for example, in the same manner that the user's profile is used to match a user with other content items. The advertisement content determined to be of the highest interest to a particular user may be provided to the user via the GUI. Advertisers may be charged based on the number of times that an advertisement is provided to a user, a number of times that any user clicks through the advertisement to visit the advertiser's site, etc.","In some embodiments, users may be provided with functionality to specify different levels of privacy within the user's profile. Each privacy level may describe a user or set of users who are authorized to access the associated interest and\/or content items retrieved based on the interest. For example, each user may have a home page, as described herein. User's may access each other's home pages. A user viewing another user's home page, though, may only view content items retrieved based on the host user's interests that are accessible to the viewing user. Example privacy levels that may be used include, for example, user only, friends only and public. Interests classified according to a user only privacy level may only be accessible to the user. For example, a user may have interests that the user does not want to be known to other users. Interests classified as friends only, and content items retrieved based on the same, may be accessible only to friends of the host user. Finally, interests classified as public, and content items retrieved based thereon, may be viewable by any user. According to various embodiments, the privacy classification of the user's interests may also determine the use to which the interests are put by the computer system. For example, interests from a user's profile indicated to be public may be used by the system for many purposes (e.g., selecting content items, selecting friends for the user, etc.). System use of the user's more private interests (e.g., those viewable by fewer other users) may be more limited. For example, private interests may be used to select some content items to be provided to the user (e.g., news stories, advertisements, etc.). According to various embodiments, private interests are not be used to select friends for the user. In this way, the user may specify interests to be used for selecting friends (e.g., public interests, friends only interests, etc.), while continuing to receive other content items based on other, private interests.","According to various embodiments, content items may also be classified based on levels of privacy. For example, public content items may be content items selected for display to the user based only on the public interests of the user's profile. Generally, private or non-public content items may be content items that are selected for display to the user based on the user's non-public interests. In some embodiments, public interest data may also be used to select private content items. It will be appreciated that different categories of private content items may exist, for example, based on different levels of privacy levels identified with respect to the user's non-public interests. The privacy classification of content items may be determined according to any suitable method. For example, non-public levels of content items may generally include content items that can be provided to the user without compromising any information about the user to other users not privy to the associated interests. For example, non-public content items may include news stories, commentary, etc. that may be provided to the user via the GUI, for example, in a manner inaccessible to users who are not part of the indicated security level. Public content items, on the other hand, may include content items that either compromise the user interests used to select them and\/or may be deemed an intrusion by the user. For example, public content items may include content items that are provided to the user by virtue of a friendship with another user. Other examples of public content items may include advertisements, solicitations, offers, etc. In various embodiments, the distinction between private and public portions of the user's profile may be utilized by other functionality offered by the computer system as well. For example, in various embodiments, public portions of the user's profile may be viewable and\/or accessible to other users.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","103","101","104","101","104","101","104","102","103","104","102","103","101","104"]},"According to various embodiments, the computer system  may also be in communication with data stores , , . For example, a user data store  may comprise data describing user profile (e.g., received as described herein). A content item data store  may comprise content items. Content items may be received, for example, from content providers  and\/or advertisers . Content providers  may be, for example, online publications and\/or other data sources. Advertisers  may comprise businesses who desire to reach the users  through advertising, special offers, etc. In various embodiments, the advertisers  may compensate the computer system , as described herein, for the privilege of having their advertising content viewed by the users . In various embodiments, some content may be provided by users. For example, users may generate blog posts, forum postings, and other content that may be provided to other users.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","105","100","202","102","101","105","204","102","101","105","206","102","105","101","112","105"]},"At , the computer system  may cause the GUI  to display a plurality of interests representing sub-categories of the first interest. The user  may select one or more of the sub-categories (e.g., through the GUI ). The selected sub-category interests may be received by the computer system  at . The selected sub-category interests, in some embodiments along with the selected interest categories, may be used to form all or a part of the profile of the user . For example, the selected sub-category interests (and the user profile) may be stored at user data store . The user profile may, in turn, be used to select content items to be provided to the user . Although the process flow  describes a two-level set of nested interests (e.g., categories and sub-categories), it will be appreciated that additional levels of nested interests may be used. For example, additional sub-categories of the selected sub-category interest may be displayed for selection by the user .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","105","302","302","105","105","105","105","105","102","105","105"]},"At , the computer system  may provide the user  with public content items based on the public profile data. For example, the public profile data may be used as (and\/or be used to generate) search parameters, such as a list of keywords. The search parameters may be applied to public content items (e.g., stored at the content items data store ) to select public content items matching the search parameters. These items may be provided to the user  at . Public content items may include, for example, advertisements, solicitations from advertisers, etc. In some embodiments, public content items may comprise indications of friend compatibility and or posts or other content generated by other users. For example, the public profile data may be used to match the user with other users. Results of the matching may bye provided to the first user as public content items.","At , the computer system  may select non-public content items based on the user's profile. Non-public content items may include content items that are at various levels of privacy below public. For example, non-public content items may include user-only content items (e.g., content items selected based on user-only interests) and friends only content items (e.g., content items selected based on friends only interests). The non-public content items may be provided to the user via the GUI  at . According to various embodiments, the public and non-public content items may be displayed at a home page of the user. As described herein, the user's homepage may be accessible by other users. The content items on the home page may be accessible based on their privacy level which may be, in turn, based on the privacy level of the interests used to select the content items. For example, public content items may be selected utilizing public interests of the user and may be available to all visitors to the user's home page. Friends only content items may be selected utilizing friends only interests of the user and may be available to the users friends when the friends visit the home page. Also, for example, user only content items may be selected utilizing user only interests and may be available through the home page only to the user. It will be appreciated that different content items may have different privacy levels for different users. For example, a news story content item, if selected based on a first user's user only interest may be a user only content item with respect to the first user. On the other hand, if the same news story content item is selected for a second user's home page based on the second user's public interest, then, with respect to the second user, the news story content item may be a public content item. In some embodiments, some content items, such as user-generated content items like posts, may have a privacy level indicated by the creating user. Also, some content items may have a universal privacy level set and\/or stored by the computer system. For example, some advertisements and\/or solicitations may be provided to a user only if they are selected based on the user's public interests. (In some embodiments, advertisements may be selected based on all of the interests in a user's profile, regardless of classification.)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-21","FIGS. 4-21"],"b":["101","101","101","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","101","402","105","402","105","402","101","428","409","402","402","402","404","402","105","105","402","404","105","405","402","105","105"]},"The home page may also comprise a content item field . The content item field  may comprise indications of and\/or links to content items selected for the user  (e.g., based on the profile of the user ). Navigation bars  may allow the user  to access other functionality of the GUI . For example, a navigation bar  may comprise buttons for My Friends , My TV Shows , My Cartoonists , Headline News , Edit Selections , Brows News  and My Profile. A navigation bar  may comprise buttons for Home , Headline News , Posts , Voting , Blog , Forum , Help  and Logout . It will be appreciated that some or all of these buttons are included in .","Several of the buttons of the navigation bar  may link to content items corresponding to particular received interests of the user . For example, an Edit Selections button  may allow the user  to enter and\/or change the indicated interests making up their user profile. (In various embodiments, these interests may be received, initially, at the time that the user  registers with the GUI .)  illustrates one example embodiment of the home page , showing interest category buttons , ,  indicating interest categories that may be edited by the user . In the illustrated example, the displayed interest categories include My News, My TV Shows, and My Cartoonists.","Selecting the Edit My News button  may allow the user to select interest categories related to news.  illustrates one example embodiment of an interest edit screen  that may allow the user  to edit and\/or select interests related to news. The interest edit screen  may be accessed when the user  selects the Edit My News button . Included in the interest edit screen are a list  of interests that may be sub-categories of the interest category \u201cnews.\u201d A My News field  may indicate interests that have already been selected by the user  (e.g., in the example configuration of , none). A search field  may allow the user  to perform keyword searches to find a desired category, for example, if the desired category does not appear at the list . The user  may select a category from the list . The selected category may be added to the My News field .","When the selected interest has associated sub-category interests, additional fields may be provided listing the subcategory interests for selection by the user .  illustrates one example embodiment of the interest edit screen  showing multiple fields for sub-category interests. For example, as illustrated in , the interest Political Figures may be selected from field . This may cause an additional field  to be displayed showing interests that are sub-categories of the interest Political Figures. If the user  selects the interest Congressional Leaders from field , then an additional field  may be provided displaying sub-categories of Congressional Leaders. As shown in , the user may select the interest House Committees from field . This may cause an additional field  to display showing interests that are sub-categories of House Committees (e.g., the names of individual House Committees). When the user  selects the interest Budget, an additional field  may list sub-categories of the interest Budget, here the names of the committee chair, interest Paul Ryan, and the committee ranking member (Michael Mulvaney). In the Examiner illustrated in , both of the interests Paul Ryan and Michael Mulvaney have been selected by the user  and are illustrated at the My News field . The intermediate interests (e.g., Political Figures, Congressional Leaders, House Committees and Budget) are not listed at the My News field . In various embodiments, however, these intermediate interests may also be listed at the My News field  and used to generate the profile for the user .","It will be appreciated that any combination of interests and sub-category interests may be selected and not just the combination shown. Further, it will be appreciated that although the chain shown comprises four intermediate interests, some interests may comprise more or fewer intermediate interests. For example,  illustrates another example embodiment of the interest screen  showing multiple fields for sub-category interests under an alternative set of interests and sub-category interests. As shown in , the user  has selected the interest Organizations. A field  lists sub-category interests of Organizations. From the field , as shown in , the user  has selected Group Advocacy. Sub-category interests of Group Advocacy are displayed at field . From field , the user  has selected Hispanic, causing a list of sub-categories of the interest Hispanic to be displayed at field . As illustrated, the user  may select one of the interests from field , causing it to be displayed at the My News field  and used as a part of the profile of the user .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 10"],"b":["440","105","618","618","105","620","620","105","601","105","622","440","108","622","440","622"]},"Once the user  has selected interests (e.g., sub-category interests to the My News button ), the user  may perform similar selections under the Edit My TV Shows button  and the Edit My Cartoonists button  (). Interests and sub-category interests under these broad interests, as selected, may also be added to the user profile of the user . Additionally, the selected interests, either together or as part of the user profile, may be utilized to populate the content item field  with content items. For example, the interests comprising the user profile of the user  may be and\/or may be linked to a set of search parameters. The search parameters may be provided to a search engine or search engines. The search engine or engines may be implemented by the computer system  and\/or may be implemented by one or more of the content providers . Content items returned by the search engine or engines may be displayed at the content item field , either in their entirety, as a link to the content item (e.g., hosted by a content provider ), or as a link and a summary, as shown in . For example,  shows content items , , , , , . Content items  and  may have been selected based on interest Paul Ryan. Content items ,  may have been selected based on interest Michael Mulvaney, and content items  and  may have been selected based on interest Drug Costs.","Various other buttons selected from the navigation bar  may provide the user  with access to various other functionalities of the GUI . For example, selecting the My Friends button  may cause the GUI  to display a friends screen .  illustrates one example embodiment of the friends screen  of the GUI . The friends screen  may comprise a friend request field . The friend request window may list friend requests received by the user  from other users. In various embodiments, the friend requests listed at friend request field  may be considered content items. The user  may select a friend request from the friend request field . The GUI  may, subsequently, provide the user  with information about the request including, for example, the identity of the user making the request, and provide the user  when an opportunity to accept or decline the request. If the request is accepted, the requesting user may become a friend of the user .","A friend search field  may allow the user  to search for potential friends (e.g., other users) by entering a name or other indicia of the desired friend. A find new friends field  may allow the user  to search for new friends based on the user profile of the user . For example, the friend search may match all or a portion of the user profile  with the user profiles of other users to identify users who may be potential friends of the user . In various embodiments, the comparison may be limited to public portions of the respective users' profiles. For example, the public portion of the profile for the user  may be compared with the public portion of other user's profile to determine matches. Matches may be identified in any suitable way. In some embodiments, matches may be indicated by friend requests to one or both of the matched users displayed, for example, through the friend request field . Also, for example, the user  may be matched with other users having interests in common with the user  (e.g., a threshold number of common interests, a threshold percentage of common interests, etc.). Also, according to various embodiments, to invigorate debate, the user  may be matched with other users having interests that are determined to be opposite the interests of the user . An unfriend field  may comprise a list of all of the current friends of the user . The unfriend field  may provide the user with functionality to remove the friend status of one or more of the listed users.","Referring back to the home page  shown at , the My TV Shows , My News , and My Cartoonists  buttons may configure the content item field  to display content items that are related to and\/or related to sub-category interests of TV shows, News and Cartoonists, respectively. The Headline News button  may cause the GUI  to display a Headline News screen .  illustrates one example embodiment of the Headline News screen  of the GUI . The Headline News screen  may display links to content items that are relevant to current events. For example,  shows content items , , ,  as links coupled with content summaries (e.g., the first paragraph of the story). The content items , , ,  may or may not be related to the profile of the user . According to various embodiments, the Headline News screen  may also be accessed by selecting the Headline News button  from the navigation bar .","Referring again back to the home page  shown at , the My Profile button  may allow the user  to access all of the interests comprising the user profile of the user . For example, the user  may be provided with functionality for adding additional interests, removing existing interests, etc. For example, in various embodiments, the user  may be provided with functionality for designating some portion of the user profile as public.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 16"],"b":["1400","101","1400","402","402","1400","400","1400","432","409","1600","436","409","1600","101","1600","105","402","402","105","1400","1600","1400","1600","105"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":["1500","101","101","105","1500","105","1500","1511","105","1511","1514","1514","1511","406","105","1511","1502","105","1504","1506","1508","1510","105","105","105"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 11"],"b":["1700","101","1700","338","409","1700","105","1700","1702","1702","400","441","442","407","441","101","442","105","101"]},"As described herein, various advertising, product offers, and\/or promotions may be provided to the users . These items may be provided to the users  in any suitable manner. For example, they may be provided as banner ads in any of the screens discussed herein. Also, for example, they may be provided as content items in the content item field  or any other field or screen described herein where content items, or indications of content items are present. As described, advertising, product offers and\/or promotions provided to a particular user may be selected, for example, based on the user's user profile and, in various embodiments, a public portion of the user's user profile.","The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example, no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures, methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.","It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention, while eliminating, for purposes of clarity, other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize, however, that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention, and therefore, a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.","In various embodiments, modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example, software-as-a-service (SaaS) models or application service provider (ASP) models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients (e.g., the users  and user devices ) or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection, for example, and operated either independently (e.g., downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system) or through a third-party service provider (e.g., accessed through a third-party web site). In addition, cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.","Moreover, the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment, such as computers or computer devices. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device, such as, for example, a computer system (non-volatile) memory, an optical disk, magnetic tape, or magnetic disk. Furthermore, some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer-readable memory medium.","It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer-readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer-readable medium may include, for example, memory devices such as diskettes, compact discs of both read-only and read\/write varieties, optical disk drives, and hard disk drives. A computer-readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical, virtual, permanent, temporary, semi-permanent and\/or semi-temporary.","A \u201ccomputer,\u201d \u201ccomputer device,\u201d \u201ccomputer system,\u201d \u201csystem,\u201d \u201chost,\u201d \u201cengine,\u201d or \u201cprocessor\u201d may be, for example and without limitation, a processor, microcomputer, minicomputer, server, mainframe, laptop, personal data assistant (PDA), wireless e-mail device, cellular phone, pager, processor, fax machine, scanner, or any other programmable device configured to transmit and\/or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer-based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining, processing, and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software, including a hard disk, an optical disk, floppy disk, ROM (read only memory), RAM (random access memory), PROM (programmable ROM), EEPROM (electrically erasable PROM) and\/or other computer-readable memory media.","In various embodiments of the present invention, a single component may be replaced by multiple components, and multiple components may be replaced by a single component, to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention, such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers or computer systems described herein, for example, may be replaced by a \u201cserver farm\u201d or other grouping of networked servers (e.g., a group of server blades) that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between\/among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load-balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as, for example, tracking demand for processing power from different machines, prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand, and\/or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.","Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components, transfer data, or to share resources and information. Such computer networks, such as network , can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network, such as optical fiber, Ethernet, wireless LAN, HomePNA, power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks: local area network (LAN); metropolitan area network (MAN); wide area network (WAN); virtual private network (VPN); storage area network (SAN); or global area network (GAN), among other network varieties.","For example, a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan, regional, or national boundaries. The network may use routers and\/or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area (e.g., city-to-city or country-to-country) which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers, such as telephone service providers. In another example, a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example, a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network (e.g., the Internet) instead of by physical wires. The link-layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.","Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes, such as network interface cards (NICs) or Ethernet cards, repeaters, bridges, hubs, switches, routers, and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and\/or data connections may be provided with microwave links (e.g., IEEE 802.12) or fiber optics, for example. A network card, network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses, for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network, the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments, local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks (LANs); remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network (WAN) link between LANs; and\/or, wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and\/or to connect remote stations to LANs.","In various embodiments, a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example, when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub, the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports, such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch, or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term \u201cswitch\u201d can also include routers and bridges, as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content (e.g., a Web URL identifier). Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers, including physical, data link, network, or transport (i.e., end-to-end). A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments, routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.","As employed herein, an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition (IBM), Sybase Enterprise Application Server (Sybase Inc), WebLogic Server (BEA), JBoss (Red Hat), JRun (Adobe Systems), Apache Geronimo (Apache Software Foundation), Oracle OC4J (Oracle Corporation), Sun Java System Application Server (Sun Microsystems), and SAP Netweaver AS (ABAP\/Java). Also, application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework, including the Windows Communication Foundation, .NET Remoting, ADO.NET, and ASP.NET among several other components. For example, a Java Server Page (JSP) is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web-based applications, while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers, for instance, or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service-oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface, Web Services Interoperability, and Java EE Connector Architecture.","While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein, it should be apparent, however, that various modifications, alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications, alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"FIGURES","p":["Various embodiments of the present invention are described here by way of example in conjunction with the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
