---
title: Service associated with persistent storage
abstract: Examples are disclosed for allocating a block of persistent storage or accessing a block of persistent storage based on a storage service string that includes a universally unique identifier and associated metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799618&OS=08799618&RS=08799618
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08799618
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110412
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","Data may be stored persistently on\/in storage devices that may include hard drives. Typically, storage device drivers associated with these storage devices may organize or allocate fixed-sized blocks of persistent storage via use of a one-dimensional, linear block indexing model such as a dense integer index. A dense integer index has been one of the more common ways to allocate a block of persistent storage for smaller file systems or data centers that may include one or only a few hard drives. One type of dense integer index that was developed several years ago for these smaller file systems is known as Logical Block Addressing (LBA).","Recently, as larger file-systems or data centers having an increasing number of disk drives became more common, continued use of dense integer indexes such as LBA are beginning to have increasingly negative effects on data integrity, reliability and management overhead costs. These negative effects, for example, may have been caused by a lack of flexibility associated with a dense integer index that uses fixed-sized blocks of persistent storage that may have been allocated using an index designed for much smaller data systems. Thus, as the number of hard drives and the number of possible blocks of persistent storage maintained at a data center increased, the chances that some identifiers may match or collide also increased. As a result of large data centers, management overhead costs and system complexity have both increased in order to prevent collisions and maintain data integrity.","The present disclosure describes some example methods for allocating a block of persistent storage. These example methods may include generating a universally unique identifier for the block of persistent storage and forming a storage service string to include the universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The storage service string may then be forwarded to a storage device driver. In some examples, based at least in part on the storage service string, the storage device driver may be configured to allocate the block of persistent storage from persistent storage accessible to the storage device driver.","The present disclosure also describes other example methods for allocating a block of persistent storage. These other example methods may include receiving at a storage device driver a storage service string that includes a universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The block of persistent storage may then be allocated based, at least in part, on the storage service string. In some examples, the block of persistent storage may be allocated from available persistent storage accessible to the storage device driver.","The present disclosure also describes example methods for a file system or application to access a block of persistent storage. These example methods may include obtaining a storage service string that includes a universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The storage service string may then be forwarded to a storage device driver to submit a read request for the storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, based at least in part on the storage service string, the storage device driver may be configured to fulfill the read request by accessing the block of persistent storage from persistent storage accessible to the storage device driver.","The present disclosure also describes example devices (e.g., storage device drivers) for fulfilling a read request associated with a block of persistent storage. The example devices may include a service manager having logic. The logic may be configured to receive a storage service string that includes a universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, the logic may also be configured to fulfill the read request by accessing the block of persistent storage and provide data maintained therein to the requestor based, at least in part, on the storage service string.","The present disclosure also describes example systems for allocating a block of persistent storage. These example systems may include a persistent storage device, an application and a storage device driver. In some examples, the application may include an index manager having index logic configured to generate a universally unique identifier for the block of persistent storage. The index logic may also be configured to form a storage service string to include the universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The index logic may further be configured to forward the storage service string to submit an allocation request for the block of persistent storage. In some examples, the storage device driver may include a service manager having service logic configured to receive the storage service string forwarded from the application. The service logic may also be configured to allocate the block of persistent storage to fulfill the allocation request based, at least in part, on the storage service string. In some examples, the block of persistent storage may be allocated from available persistent storage maintained at the persistent storage device.","The present disclosure also describes example computer program products. In some examples, the computer program products may include a non-transitory medium having instructions for a file system or application to access a block of persistent storage. The instructions, which, when executed by the logic may cause the logic to obtain a storage service string that includes a universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The instructions may also cause the logic to forward the storage service string to a storage device driver to submit a read request for the storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, based at least in part on the storage service string, the storage device driver may be configured to fulfill the read request by accessing the block of persistent storage from persistent storage accessible to the storage device driver.","The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further aspects, embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.","all arranged in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof. In the drawings, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative examples or embodiments described in the detailed description, drawings, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other examples or embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that aspects of this disclosure, as generally described herein, and illustrated in the Figures, can be arranged, substituted, combined, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are explicitly contemplated and make part of this disclosure.","This disclosure is drawn, inter alia, to methods, apparatus, systems and computer program products related to a storage service associated with blocks of persistent storage.","As contemplated in the present disclosure, use of dense integer indexes such as LBA may have negative effects on data integrity, reliability and management overhead costs for data centers or computer systems having a large number of interconnected hard drives. As the amount of data being managed at a data center increases (e.g., more hard drives), the costs for basic operations such as data replication or data consistency checking become supra-linearly higher in an expanding data center. This may lead to rather large investments in fault tolerance schemes that may undergo expensive data migration cycles on a frequent basis. Also, at least a portion of a data center may experience an outage. Typical storage architectures that use dense integer indexes may not have enough isolation or encapsulation to avoid unacceptable levels of systemic reliability. Further, increasing aggregate data sizes for today's highly active, highly interconnected data center(s) may continue to lead to unacceptable levels of systemic reliability when using types of dense integer indexes such as LBA to allocate blocks of persistent storage.","In some examples, a system for allocating a block of persistent storage may include a persistent storage device (e.g., composed of one or more hard drives), an application or file system and a storage device driver. The application or file system may include an index manager having index logic configured to generate a universally unique identifier for the block of persistent storage. The index logic may also be configured to form a storage service string to include the universally unique identifier and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The index logic may further be configured to forward the storage service string to submit an allocation request for the block of persistent storage. In some examples, the storage device driver may include a service manager having service logic configured to receive the storage service string forwarded from the application or file system. The service logic may also be configured to allocate the block of persistent storage to fulfill the allocation request based, at least in part, on the storage service string. In some examples, the block of persistent storage may be allocated from available persistent storage maintained at or by the persistent storage device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","110","120","130","110","120","140","120","150","130","110","120","130","160","162","110","112","114","120","122","130","132","1","132"],"i":["a","c","n. "]},"According to some examples, application  may include one or more applications and\/or file systems to perform one or more tasks that may require the need to write to and\/or read from a block of persistent storage (e.g., maintained by persistent storage device ). Application  may include, but is not limited to, an application suite (e.g., a compilation of word processing and spreadsheet applications), enterprise software (e.g., customer relationship management (CRM)), enterprise infrastructure software (e.g., databases, e-mail servers, etc.), information worker software, content access software, simulation software, mobile applications, product engineering software, graphical user interface (GUI), etc.","As shown in , application  includes index manager  and SNBI table . As described more below, index manager  may form a storage service string and use SNBI table  to maintain information associated with that storage service string. The formed storage service string may be forwarded to a storage device driver (e.g., storage device driver ) and the storage device driver may allocate a block of persistent storage (e.g., persistent storage -) from persistent storage (e.g., maintained by persistent storage device ) that may be accessible to storage device driver  via internal communication link . Also, as described more below, index manager  may obtain at least a portion of a previously formed storage service string from SNBI table  in order to submit a read request for a storage service associated with a block of persistent storage. Although not shown in , in alternative examples, another SNBI table may be externally located and accessible to application  via external communication link through external communication interface . For these alternative examples, the other SNBI table may be used in a similar manner as SNBI table  mentioned above.","As shown in , storage device driver  may communicatively couple with application  via internal communication link . Storage device driver  may also communicatively couple to applications (not shown) remote to system  via external communication link through external communication interface . In some examples, service manager  of storage device driver  may include logic and\/or features that are configured to receive a storage service string from application  or a remote application. Service manager  may also include logic and\/or features configured to allocate a block of persistent storage (e.g., persistent storage -) based on the received storage service string.","Also as shown in , persistent storage device  includes persistent storage - to -. In some examples, persistent storage - to -include blocks of memory maintained by persistent storage device . Persistent storage - to -may include separate blocks of addressable persistent storage maintained entirely on a single hard drive or maintained separately on any number of hard drives. The single hard drive or multitude of hard drives may include, but is not limited to, any combination of solid state hard drives (e.g., flash drives) or hard disk drives. Also, persistent storage - to -may be addressable blocks of persistent storage maintained on one or more hard drives that may be directly attached to system  (e.g., via internal communication link ) and\/or maintained on one or more hard drives that may be remotely attached to system  (e.g. via external communication link ). Thus, although not shown in , persistent storage device  may include at least some persistent storage blocks that may be maintained remotely to system . For example, via use of network-attached persistent storage coupled to system  through external communication interface .","In some examples, system  may include a single computing platform (e.g., a computer, a server, etc.) and as such, application , storage device drive  and persistent storage  may be co-located and\/or supported by the single computing platform. For these examples, internal communication links  and  may operate according to various communication protocols to include, but not limited to, Universal Serial Bus (USB), PCI-Express, Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA), Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (PATA) or small computer system interface (SCSI). In other examples, system  may include a number of computing platforms and at least one of application , storage device drive  and persistent storage device  may be located on different computing platforms. For these other examples, internal communication links  and  may operate according to various peripheral communication protocols to include USB, PCI-Express, external SATA (eSATA) or Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1394 and\/or various network communication protocols (wired or wireless) to include, but not limited to, IEEE 802.1, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, GSM, GPRS, EDGE, W-CDMA, HSPA, LTE, CDMA-2000, EV-DO. Also, in either a single or a multiple computing platform example, external communication links -in conjunction with external communication interface  may operate according to similar network communication protocols (wired or wireless).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["112","100","110","112","112"]},"The example index manager  of  includes index logic , control logic , memory  and input\/output (I\/O) interfaces . As illustrated in , index logic  is coupled to control logic , memory  and I\/O interfaces . Index logic  may further include one or more of a generate feature , a form feature , an obtain feature , a forward feature  or a receive feature , or any reasonable combination thereof.","In some examples, the elements portrayed in FIG. 's block diagram are configured to support or enable index manager  as described in this disclosure. A given index manager  may include some, all or more elements than those depicted in . For example, index logic  and control logic  may separately or collectively represent a wide variety of logic device(s) to implement the features of index manager . An example logic device may include one or more of a computer, a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a field programmable gate array (FPGA), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a sequestered thread or a core of a multi-core\/multi-threaded microprocessor or a combination thereof.","In some examples, as shown in , index logic  includes one or more of a generate feature , a form feature , a forward feature , an obtain feature  or a receive feature . Index logic  may be configured to use one or more of these features to perform operations. As described in more detail below, example operations may include generating, forming, obtaining or forwarding a storage service string to a storage device driver. The example operations may also include receiving data associated with the storage service string.","In some examples, control logic  may be configured to control the overall operation of index manager . As mentioned above, control logic  may represent any of a wide variety of logic device(s) configured to operate in conjunction with executable content or instructions to implement the control of index manager . In some alternate examples, the features and functionality of control logic  may be implemented within index logic .","According to some examples, memory  is arranged to store executable content or instructions. The executable content or instructions may be used by control logic  and\/or index logic  to implement or activate features or elements of index manager . Memory  may also be arranged to temporarily maintain storage service string information such as a universally unique identifier and metadata that may indicate one or more characteristics for a storage service associated with a block of persistent storage. In some examples, the temporarily maintained storage service string information may be used to form the storage service string and forward the storage service string to a storage device driver (e.g., storage device driver ).","Memory  may include a wide variety of memory media including, but not limited to, one or more of volatile memory, non-volatile memory, flash memory, programmable variables or states, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), or other static or dynamic storage media.","In some examples, I\/O interfaces  may provide an interface between index manager  and elements or devices that may be communicatively coupled to application . For example, as mentioned above for , application  may be configured to communicatively couple to storage device driver  via internal communication link  or may be configured to communicatively couple to elements remote to system  via external communication link The I\/O interfaces , for example, may include an interface configured to operate according to various wireless and\/or wired communication protocols to allow index manager  to communicate over these internal\/external communication links (e.g., USB, SATA, PATA, SCSI, eSATA, PCI-Express, IEEE 802.1, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, GSM, GPRS, EDGE, W-CDMA, HSPA, LTE, CDMA-2000, EV-DO, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["122","100","120","122","122"]},"The example service manager  of  includes a service logic , a control logic , a memory  or a input\/output (I\/O) interfaces . As illustrated in , source logic  is coupled to control logic , memory  and I\/O interfaces . Source logic  may further include one or more of a receive feature , an allocate feature , a read feature  or a write feature , or any reasonable combination thereof.","In some examples, the elements portrayed in FIG. 's block diagram are configured to support or enable service manager  as described in this disclosure. A given service manager  may include some, all or more elements than those depicted in . For example, source logic  and control logic  may separately or collectively represent a wide variety of logic device(s) to implement the features of service manager . An example logic device may include one or more of a computer, a microprocessor, a microcontroller, an FPGA, an ASIC, a sequestered thread or a core of a multi-core\/multi-threaded microprocessor or a combination thereof.","In some examples, as shown in , source logic  includes one or more of a receive feature , an allocate feature , a read feature  or a write feature . Source logic  may be configured to use one or more of these features to perform operations. As described in more detail below, example operations may include receiving a storage service string and allocating a block of persistent storage based on the storage service string. The operations may also include fulfilling a read or write request based on the storage service string.","In some examples, control logic  may be configured to control the overall operation of service manager . As mentioned above, control logic  may represent any of a wide variety of logic device(s) configured to operate in conjunction with executable content or instructions to implement the control of service manager . In some alternate examples, the features and functionality of control logic  may be implemented within source logic .","According to some examples, memory  is arranged to store executable content or instructions. The executable content or instructions may be used by control logic  and\/or source logic  to implement or activate features or elements of service manager . Memory  may also be arranged to temporarily maintain storage service string information. Temporarily maintained storage service string information may be used to allocate a block of persistent storage (e.g., maintained by persistent storage device ) or fulfilling read\/write requests.","Memory  may include a wide variety of memory media including, but not limited to, one or more of volatile memory, non-volatile memory, flash memory, programmable variables or states, RAM, ROM, or other static or dynamic storage media.","In some examples, I\/O interfaces  may provide an interface between source manager  and elements or devices that may be communicatively coupled to storage device driver . For example, as mentioned above for , storage device driver  may be configured to communicatively couple to application  or persistent storage device  via internal communication links , , respectively. Also, as mentioned above, storage device driver  may be configured to communicatively couple to elements remote to system  via external communication link The I\/O interfaces , for example, may include an interface configured to operate according to various wireless and\/or wired communication protocols to allow service manager  to communicate over these internal\/external communication links (e.g., USB, SATA, PATA, SCSI, eSATA, PCI-Express, IEEE 802.1, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, GSM, GPRS, EDGE, W-CDMA, HSPA, LTE, CDMA-2000, EV-DO, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","410","450","110","112","400"]},"According to some examples, row  indicates that a storage service string may include a 32-byte universally unique identifier (UUID) for a block of persistent storage. An application or file system, for example, may include logic and\/or features (e.g., index manager ) to locally generate the 32-byte UUID. In some examples, the logic and\/or features of the application may generate the 32-byte UUID randomly such that the probability of the UUID being repeated is very unlikely.","According to some examples, row  indicates that a storage service string may include an 8-byte expire indication for a block of persistent storage. The 8-byte expire indication may be part of metadata that indicates a characteristic for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, the 8-byte expire indication may be an expiration time period after which the block of persistent storage expires and becomes unallocated. Thus, for example, the storage service associated with the expired block of persistent storage would no longer be available. The 8-byte expire indication, in some examples, may be an indication of a number of seconds since the epoch from which the block of persistent storage may be set to expire. For example, the epoch may be based on a reference date of Jan. 1, 1970. The reference date of Jan. 1, 1970 may be referred to as \u201cUnix time\u201d. Although this disclosure is not limited to only an epoch with a reference date of Jan. 1, 1970.","In some examples, an expiration time period may allow a storage service provider or service host to limit costs associated with allocating at least portions of persistent storage blocks to applications. Setting an expiration time period may oblige applications to responsibly consider data maintenance and life cycle issues explicitly within bounded aggregate cost at allocation time for some or all persistent storage blocks. Also, a service host may bill or value a given storage service based on the length of time for a given expiration time period. For example, a longer expiration time period may tie up a block of persistent storage that could otherwise be used by other applications. As a result of longer tie up periods, the service host may charge more or bill at a higher rate for a longer expiration time period.","According to some examples, row  indicates that a storage service string may include a 1-byte size indication for a block of persistent storage. The 1-byte size indication may also be part of metadata that indicates a characteristic for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, the 1-byte size indication may indicate the overall size of the block of persistent storage that may be allocated. As shown in , the 1-byte size indication may indicate a log base 2 of the size of the block of persistent storage. The size may be in bytes, although this disclosure is not limited to only size indications in bytes. For example, a 1-byte size indication that indicates a decimal value of 12 would have a size value of 2 to the 12power or 4096 bytes.","According to some examples, row  indicates that a storage service string may include a 1-byte ReadsPerDay indication for a block of persistent storage. The 1-byte ReadsPerDay indication may also be part of metadata that indicates a characteristic for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, a limit may be placed on the number of times in given time period (e.g., 24 hours or a day) that the block of persistent storage may be read or accessed. In some examples, a charge or bill for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage may be higher for a high number of reads in a given day compared to a low number of reads. The higher charge may be attributed to the additional workload placed on logic and\/or features of a service host that may be configured to provide or obtain data maintained in the block of persistent storage to fulfill a read request.","According to some examples, row  indicates that a storage service string may include a 1-byte WritesPerDay indication for a block of persistent storage. The 1-byte WritesPerDay indication may also be part of metadata that indicates a characteristic for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. In some examples, a limit may be placed on the number of times in given time period (e.g., 24 hours or a day) that the block of persistent storage may be written to. In some examples, a charge or bill for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage may be higher for a high number of writes in a given day compared to a low number of writes. Similar to charges for reads per day, the higher charge for writes per day may be attributed to the additional workload placed on logic and\/or features of a service host that may be configured to fulfill a write request at a higher frequency or rate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","400","500","500","510","520","530","540","540","542","544","546","548","530","540","542","548","400"]},"In some examples, snbi field  may indicate that a storage service string in the format of string format  was formed based, at least in part, on a sparse non-deterministic block index. In some examples, the information in snbi field  may indicate to an application (e.g., application ) that the application may need to access (locally or remotely) an SNBI table to either store information associated with a storage service string or to obtain information associated with a storage service for a block of persistent storage.","As shown in , sting format  includes service host field . Service host field  may indicate a location of a service host that is servicing a storage service associated with a block of persistent storage. The service host may be a computing platform and\/or operating system configured to support a storage device driver that allocates the block of persistent storage. For example, using system  as shown in , an indication of a local service host (e.g., local host) may indicate that application  expects elements of system  (e.g., storage device driver  and\/or persistent storage device ) to service a storage service associated with a block of persistent storage. Alternatively, an indication of a remote service host (e.g., remote host) may indicate that application  expects elements of a system located remotely to system  to service the storage service.","According to some examples, in order to form a storage service string in the format of string format , an application may include logic and\/or features configured to encode information described above for table  using an architectural style such as the Representational State Transfer (REST) architectural style to form a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). Also, an application may include logic and\/or features configured to forward the storage service string in the format of string format  using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). In some examples, the REST architectural style, URI or HTTP may be used in accordance with various industry standards or publications. The various industry standards or publications may include a publication by The Internet Society, Request for Comments (RFC): 2626 \u201cHypertext Transfer Protocol\u2014HTTP\/1.1\u201d, published in 1999 or a publication by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), RFC: 5785, \u201cDefining Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)\u201d, published in 2010.","In some examples, using the REST architectural style, fields - and sub-fields - may be joined with slashes to form a storage service string in the format of string format . As mentioned above, with the exception of snbi field  and service host field , the fields depicted in  for string format  may include the information from table . The information from table , for example, may be written in a respective field in either hexadecimal or decimal format. Below is an example storage service string () in the format of string format  that may be formed using the REST architectural style. Example storage service string ():","snbi:\/\/localhost\/3f3ed5d7605376c3453f223dd5daa43ca7611b672abcbb3823456c38245378cb\/1278448474\/12\/9\/9","The example storage service string () in the format of string format  indicates \u201csnbi\u201d in snbi field  and \u201clocalhost\u201d in service host field . The example storage service string () also includes a hexadecimal value in UUID field  to indicate a universally unique identifier for a block of persistent storage. The example storage service string () also includes information in metadata field  that indicates that a service associated with the block of persistent storage has an expiration of the morning of Jul. 7, 2010 with a size of 4096 (two to the twelfth power) bytes and a read\/write limit or quota of 1023 (two to the 10th power minus one) of each per day. In some examples, as shown above, the metadata in the example storage service string () may be written using decimal values.","The example storage service string () may be referred to as a fully elaborated SNBI URI. Example storage service string () may be written in a shortened form as shown below. Example storage service string ():","snbi:\/\/localhost\/3f3ed5d7605376c3453f223dd5daa43ca7611b672abcbb3823456c38245378cb","The example storage service string () does not include the metadata field and may be used to provide just a minimal amount of information necessary to distinguish a block of persistent storage from other blocks of persistent storage. In some examples, service host information may be removed to provide and even shorter form as shown below. Example storage service string ():","snbi:\/\/3f3ed5d7605376c3453f223dd5daa43ca7611b672abcbb3823456c38245378cb","The example storage service string (), for example, may provide the minimum amount of information needed to read\/write to the block of persistent storage. In some examples, an operating system for a system (e.g., system ) may decide how to handle a service request based merely on the information indicated in example storage service string (). For example, the operating system may access an SNBI table that may be maintained either locally or remotely to obtain or acquire the remaining information. The remaining information may include the information shown above for either example storage service string () or example storage service string ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","610","620","600","114","600","110","600","600"]},"In some examples, as shown in , entry  includes the information mentioned above for example storage service string (). Entry , for example, may include information for a different block of persistent storage than the block of persistent storage indicated in entry . Thus, as shown in , entry  indicates a remote host as the service host and includes a different UUID and associated metadata to indicate characteristics for a storage service associated with the different block of persistent storage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["132","1","132","4","130","132","1","132","120","110","120","120","132","2","132","500"],"i":["n ","n "]},"As shown in , three blocks of persistent storage - to - may have already been allocated and a fourth block of persistent storage, which is shown as persistent storage - is to be allocated based on the information included in a storage service string (e.g., example storage service string ()). In some examples, as shown in , variable sizes of data may be accommodated for each allocated block of persistent storage. Accommodating variable sizes of data may include physically configuring memory cells associated with blocks of persistent storage based on information included in a given storage service string. For example, memory cells associated with persistent storage - may be configured to include a data size of 4096 bytes based on the information included in example storage service string (). In some examples, storage device driver  may include logic and\/or features (e.g., service manager ) configured to allocate and\/or cause memory cells associated with persistent storage - to be configured to accommodate variable data sizes. Also, as shown in , the other blocks of allocated persistent storage may be separately configured to store different sizes of data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 8","FIG. 2","FIG. 5","FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","112","500","132","4","2","5","7","8","2","500"]},"Moving from the start and beginning at block  (Generate UUID), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to generate a UUID (e.g., via generate feature ) for a block of persistent storage that may be needed by Application . As mentioned above, the logic and\/or features of the application may generate the 32-byte UUID randomly such that the probability of the UUID being repeated is very unlikely. In some examples, a storage service may also be associated with the block of persistent storage.","Continuing from block  to block  (Form Storage Service String), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to form (e.g., via form feature ) a storage service string in the format of string format . In some examples, the storage service string may include the generated UUID and metadata. The metadata may indicate one or more characteristics for the storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. The forming of the storage service string may include encoding the UUID and metadata using the REST architectural style to form a URI similar to example storage service string () described above.","Continuing from block  to decision block  (Storage Device Driver Local?), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to determine whether to forward the storage service string (e.g., via forward feature ) to a local storage device driver maintained at system  (e.g., storage device driver ). If the storage service string is to be forwarded to a local storage device driver, the process moves to block . Otherwise, the process moves to block .","Moving from decision block  to block  (Forward to Local Storage Device Driver), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to forward the storage service string to the local storage device driver (e.g., via forward feature ). In some examples, the storage service string in the format of string format  may include an indication of \u201clocal host\u201d in field . Based on an indication of a local host the storage service string may be forwarded to a storage device driver that is local to system . As describe above for , storage device driver  may be local to system . As a result of being local to system , the storage service string may be forwarded via internal communication link . Storage device driver  may allocate the block of persistent storage from persistent storage accessible to storage device driver . For example, persistent storage - to -maintained by persistent storage device  may be accessible to persistent storage - to -via an internal communication link .","Moving from decision block  to block  (Forward to Remote Storage Device Driver), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to forward the storage service string to a remotely located storage device driver (e.g., via forward feature ). In some examples, the storage service string in the format of string format  may include an indication of \u201cremote host\u201d in field . Based on an indication of a remote host the storage service string may be forwarded to a storage device driver that is remote to system . As a result of being remote to system , the storage service string may be forwarded to a remotely located storage device driver via external communication link through external communication interface .","According to some examples, the remote storage device driver may allocate the block of persistent storage from persistent storage accessible to the remote storage device driver. According to some examples, the storage service string may be forward through an external communication interface  that may be communicatively coupled with the remote storage device driver via a first network communication link (e.g., the Internet or an Intranet). The remote storage device may then have access to the persistent storage via a second network communication link (e.g., an internal communication link or a local area network).","Continuing from either block  or block  to decision block  (More Blocks Needed?), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to determine whether a need exists to allocate another block of persistent storage (e.g., via generate feature ). In some examples, a need may exist if application  requires additional blocks of persistent storage in order to support a task that application  may be performing or made need to perform in the future. If a need exists for another block of persistent, the process moves back to block . Otherwise, the process ends.","In some other examples, a need may exist for possibly backing up or replicating data that may be stored in the allocated block of persistent storage. For these other examples, using any cryptographic hash function, a pseudo-random identification may be generated deterministically from the UUID associated with the block of persistent storage just allocated. Thus, any number of derivative identifications may be generated for backup or replication purposes to separate\/other blocks of persistent storage. The process may then move back to block , but instead of generating a separate UUID, a derivative of the UUID may be generated and the same metadata may be included when forming a storage service string for the allocation of the separate\/other blocks of persistent storage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 9","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","122","500","132","4","3","5","7","9","3","500"]},"Moving from the start and beginning at block  (Receive Storage Service String), storage device driver  may include a service manager  having logic and\/or features configured to receive a storage service string (e.g., via receive feature ) for allocating a block of persistent storage. The storage service string may be in the format of string format . In some examples, as mentioned above, the storage service string may include, among other information\/indicators, a UUID and metadata which may be encoded using the REST architectural style to form a URI. Also, the storage service string may or may not include a data payload to be potentially stored in the block of persistent storage.","Continuing from block  to decision block  (Allocate Locally?), service manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to determine whether to allocate the block of persistent storage (e.g., via allocate feature ) from persistent storage maintained by persistent storage device  at system . If the block of persistent storage is to be allocated from persistent storage maintained by persistent storage device  at system , the process moves to block . Otherwise, the process moves to block .","Moving from decision block  to block  (Allocate to Local Persistent Storage), service manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to allocate the block of persistent storage (e.g., via allocate feature ) from persistent storage maintained by persistent storage device  at system . In some examples, allocation of the block of persistent storage may include the logic and\/or features to allocate and\/or cause memory cells associated with the persistent storage (e.g., - or -) to be configured based, at least in part, on the received storage service string.","Moving from decision block  to block  (Allocate to NW Attached Persistent Storage), service manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to allocate the block of persistent storage (e.g., via allocate feature ) from persistent storage maintained by persistent storage device  at a location remote to system . In some examples, the persistent storage may be remotely attached to system  through external communication interface . Thus, the remotely attached persistent storage may be network (NW) attached persistent storage. For these examples, allocation of the block of persistent storage may include the logic and\/or features to allocate and\/or cause memory cells associated with the remote\/NW attached persistent storage (e.g., - or -) to be configured based, at least in part, on the received storage service string.","Continuing from either block  or block  to decision block  (Data to Write?), service manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to determine whether data needs to be written to the allocated block of persistent storage (e.g., via read\/write feature ). Also, according to some examples, if the storage service string includes a data payload to be stored in the allocated block of persistent storage, the process moves to block . Otherwise, the process ends.","Moving from decision block  to block  (Write Data), service manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to write data to the allocated block of persistent storage (e.g., via read\/write feature ). As mentioned previously, a storage service string in the format of string format  may comprise a URI that encodes the UUID and metadata in accordance with the REST architectural style. In some examples, HTTP may be used to indicate that the data payload is to be written to the allocated block of persistent storage. For example, HTTP POST and UPDATE requests may be associated with the received storage service string. Based on the POST or UPDATE request service manager  may write the data in the data payload to the allocated block of persistent storage. Once the data in the data payload is written to the allocated block of persistent storage the process ends.","According to some examples, writing the data to the allocated block of persistent storage may involve the use of a cryptographic protocol to sign at least portions of data on write (e.g., by an application or a storage device driver). The signed data may subsequently be verified on read using the cryptographic protocol (e.g., by the application or the storage device driver). The cryptographic protocol may be Data Encryption Standard (DES), Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), Public-key or other types of cryptographic protocols.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1","FIG. 10","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIGS. 1-3","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","112","122","500","132","4","2","3","5","7","10","500"]},"Moving from the start and beginning at block  (Obtain Storage Service String), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to obtain a storage service string (e.g., via obtain feature ). In some examples, the storage service string may be obtained from SNBI table  maintained by application . In alternative examples, the storage service string may be obtained from an SNBI table maintained by an application remote to system  (e.g., via external communication link through external communication interface ). The obtained storage service string may be in the format of string format . In some examples, as mentioned above, the storage service string may include, among other information\/indicators, a UUID and metadata which may be encoded using the REST architectural style to form a URI.","Continuing from block  to block  (Forward Storage Service String), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to forward the storage service string (e.g., via forward feature ) to a storage device driver to submit a read request for a storage service associated with a block of persistent storage. In some examples, the storage service string may include information to indicate that the storage device driver is located locally (e.g., local host indicated). If local, the storage service string may be forwarded to the local storage device driver (e.g., storage device driver ) to submit the read request for the storage service. In alternative examples, the storage service string may include information to indicate that the storage device driver is located remotely (e.g., remote host indicated). If remote, the storage service string may be forwarded to the remote storage device driver (e.g., via a first network communication link coupled to external communication interface ) to submit the read request for the storage service. According to some examples, the read request for the storage service associated with the block of persistent storage may include obtaining data maintained in the block of persistent storage. As mentioned previously, a storage service string in the format of string format  may comprise a URI that encodes the UUID and metadata in accordance with the REST architectural style. In some examples, HTTP may be used to also indicate that a read request is being submitted. For example, an HTTP GET may be forwarded with the storage service string to indicate that a read request is being submitted for the storage service associated with the block of persistent storage.","Continuing from block  to decision block  (Read Request Accepted?), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to determine whether an indication has been received (e.g., data associated with the read request is provided) to indicate if the read request has been accepted or granted (e.g., via receive feature ). If the read request is accepted, the process moves to block . Otherwise, the process moves back to block  and another storage service string may be obtained.","In some examples, the metadata included with the storage service string may indicate a characteristic, such as an expiration date or a limit on reads per day for a storage service associated with the block of persistent storage. For these examples, the read request may be accepted or rejected based, at least in part, on the characteristic. For example, an expiration date has expired or a threshold number for reads in a day has been exceeded may cause the request to be rejected.","Moving from decision block  to block  (Receive Data), index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to receive data associated with the read request. (e.g., via receive feature ). In some example, the data, for example, may be used by application  to perform a task for system . Once the data is received the process ends.","As mentioned above, data written to the allocated block of persistent storage may involve the use of a cryptographic protocol to sign at least portions of data on write and then to verify the data on read (e.g., by an application or storage device driver). In some examples, index manager  may include logic and\/or features configured to receive the data associated with the read request and the logic and\/or features may use the cryptographic protocol to verify the authenticity of the data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1100","1100","1102","1104","1104","210","1104"]},"Also depicted in , in some examples, computer product  may include one or more of a computer readable medium , a recordable medium  and a communications medium . The dotted boxes around these elements depict different types of mediums included within, but not limited to, signal bearing medium . These types of mediums may distribute instructions  to be executed by logic (e.g., index logic  or service logic ). Computer readable medium  and recordable medium  may include, but are not limited to, a flexible disk, a hard disk drive (HDD), a Compact Disc (CD), a Digital Versatile Disk (DVD), a digital tape, a computer memory, etc. Communications medium  may include, but is not limited to, a digital and\/or an analog communication medium (e.g., a fiber optic cable, a waveguide, a wired communication link, a wireless communication link, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["1200","112","122","1100","1200","1201","1200","1210","1220","1230","1210","1220"]},"Depending on the desired configuration, processor  can be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor (\u03bcP), a microcontroller (\u03bcC), a digital signal processor (DSP), or any combination thereof. Processor  can include one or more levels of caching, such as a level one cache  and a level two cache , a processor core , and registers . The processor core  can include an arithmetic logic unit (ALU), a floating point unit (FPU), a digital signal processing core (DSP Core), or any combination thereof. A memory controller  can also be used with the processor , or in some implementations the memory controller  can be an internal part of the processor .","Depending on the desired configuration, the system memory  can be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory (such as RAM), non-volatile memory (such as ROM, flash memory, etc.) or any combination thereof. System memory  typically includes an operating system , one or more applications , and program data . Application  includes instructions  that are arranged to perform the functions as described herein including the actions described with respect to the index manager  architecture shown in  or to the service manager  architecture shown in . Program Data  includes SNBI data  that is useful for implementing instructions  (e.g., forming and\/or reading storage service strings). In some examples, application  can be arranged to operate with program data  on an operating system  such that implementations of allocating a block of persistent storage or accessing a block of persistent storage may be provided as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in  by those components within dashed line .","Computing device  can have additional features or functionality, and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration  and any required devices and interfaces. For example, a bus\/interface controller  can be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration  and one or more data storage devices  via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices  can be removable storage devices , non-removable storage devices , or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non-removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard-disk drives (HDD), optical disk drives such as compact disk (CD) drives or digital versatile disk (DVD) drives, solid state drives (SSD), and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media can include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data.","System memory , removable storage  and non-removable storage  are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media can be part of device .","Computing device  can also include an interface bus  for facilitating communication from various interface devices (e.g., output interfaces, peripheral interfaces, and communication interfaces) to the basic configuration  via the bus\/interface controller . Example output interfaces  include a graphics processing unit  and an audio processing unit , which can be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A\/V ports . Example peripheral interfaces  include a serial interface controller  or a parallel interface controller , which can be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc.) or other peripheral devices (e.g., printer, scanner, etc.) via one or more I\/O ports . An example communication interface  includes a network controller , which can be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices  over a network communication via one or more communication ports . A network communication connection is one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and includes any information delivery media. A \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d can be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared (IR) and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein can include both storage media and communication media.","Computing device  can be implemented as a portion of a small-form factor portable (or mobile) electronic device such as a cell phone, smart phone, a personal data assistant (PDA), a personal media player device, a wireless web-watch device, a personal headset device, an application specific device, or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device  can also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non-laptop computer configurations or implemented in a workstation or a server configuration.","References made in this disclosure to the term \u201cresponsive to\u201d or \u201cin response to\u201d are not limited to responsiveness to a particular feature and\/or structure. A feature may also be responsive to another feature and\/or structure and also be located within that feature and\/or structure. Moreover, when terms or phrases such as \u201ccoupled\u201d or \u201cresponsive\u201d or \u201cin response to\u201d or \u201cin communication with\u201d, etc. are used herein or in the claims that follow, these terms should be interpreted broadly. For example, the phrase \u201ccoupled to\u201d may refer to being communicatively, electrically and\/or operatively coupled as appropriate for the context in which the phrase is used.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and\/or processes in the fashion set forth herein, and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices (e.g., transmitters, receivers, wireless devices, computing platforms, computing devices, etc.) and\/or methods into data processing systems. That is, at least a portion of the devices and\/or methods described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing, a video display device, a memory such as volatile and non-volatile memory, processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors, computational entities such as operating systems, drivers, graphical user interfaces, and applications programs, one or more interaction devices, such as a touch pad or screen, and\/or control systems including feedback loops and control motors (e.g., feedback for sensing position and\/or velocity; control motors for moving and\/or adjusting components and\/or quantities). A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available component, such as those typically found in data computing\/communication and\/or network computing\/communication systems.","The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components or elements contained within, or connected with, different other components or elements. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples, and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense, any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively \u201cassociated\u201d such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence, any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as \u201cassociated with\u201d each other such that the desired functionality is achieved, irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise, any two components so associated can also be viewed as being \u201coperably connected\u201d, or \u201coperably coupled\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality, and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being \u201coperably couplable\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and\/or physically interacting components and\/or wirelessly interactable and\/or wirelessly interacting components and\/or logically interacting and\/or logically interactable components.","With respect to the use of substantially any plural and\/or singular terms herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and\/or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and\/or application. The various singular\/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.","It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as \u201copen\u201d terms (e.g., the term \u201cincluding\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincluding but not limited to,\u201d the term \u201chaving\u201d should be interpreted as \u201chaving at least,\u201d the term \u201cincludes\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincludes but is not limited to,\u201d etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d (e.g., \u201ca\u201d and\/or \u201can\u201d should typically be interpreted to mean \u201cat least one\u201d or \u201cone or more\u201d); the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of \u201ctwo recitations,\u201d without other modifiers, typically means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations). Furthermore, in those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, and C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, and C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). In those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, or C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, or C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and\/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase \u201cA or B\u201d will be understood to include the possibilities of \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d or \u201cA and B.\u201d","While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein, other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting, with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other features of this disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only several embodiments in accordance with the disclosure and are, therefore, not to be considered limiting of its scope, the disclosure will be described with additional specificity and detail through use of the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
