---
title: Storage device with website trust indication
abstract: A portable storage device can comprise a web page confidence module and a device controller. The web page confidence module may be configured to receive a web page address and determine a trust level status associated with the web page address. The device controller may be configured to indicate a trust level status based on the trust level determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08381294&OS=08381294&RS=08381294
owner: Imation Corp.
number: 08381294
owner_city: Oakdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110817
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60\/741,732, filed Dec. 5, 2005, entitled \u201cSecurity Device with Trusted Site Indicators\u201d which is incorporated by reference herein.","The present application is a continuation application and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/634,763, filed on Dec. 5, 2006, entitled \u201cStorage Device with Website Trust Indication\u201d and issued Sep. 6, 2011, as U.S. Pat. No. 8,015,606, which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/486,799, filed Jul. 14, 2006, entitled \u201cSecure Storage Device with Offline Code Entry\u201d, which claims benefit to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60\/698,899, filed Jul. 14, 2005, entitled \u201cSecure Storage Device with Offline Password Entry,\u201d all of which are incorporated by reference herein.","This invention was made with government support under Grant No. FA 8750-05-C-0251, awarded by the United States Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to data storage, and more particularly to data storage devices.","2. Background Art","As data processing becomes ubiquitous, users are increasingly demanding that data be both mobile and secure. Although networks, such as the Internet, can transmit data from one computer to another, users often must identify and transmit the data they need to the proper destination. Unfortunately, the data may fail to be transmitted due to firewalls, proxies, spam blockers, size limitations, technical error, or human error. Further, it is not always practical for users to guess what data is needed at a future time and the location of the need. The data is also often routed through unsecure servers or network devices which can intercept the data and further compromise security.","As a result of these problems, users often load data on USB memory devices (e.g., a memory stick) and carry data with them. Unfortunately, USB memory devices can be stolen and accessed by thieves. Some USB memory devices have passwords which must be entered on the host computer before accessing the stored data. However, the password can be cracked (e.g., a brute force attack) and the data accessed.","Some USB memory devices lock the stored data after a predetermined number of password attempts have been made to prevent data theft. Unfortunately, the lock is often easy to reset. Further, the attacker can make a copy of the data stored in the USB memory device, enter the predetermined number of password attempts, delete the data, recopy the data, and enter new password attempts. This process can be repeated until successful thereby inevitably accessing the data.","Current USB memory devices do not have active security or security programs that help to protect the user's data or computer resources. In one example, current USB memory devices do not assist the user to identify web sites that are not secure or help update information to help make browsing safer.","An exemplary system to indicate website trustworthiness may include a portable storage device comprising a web page confidence module and a device controller. The web page confidence module may be configured to receive a web page address and determine a trust level status associated with the web page address. The device controller may be configured to indicate a trust level status based on the trust level determination.","The portable storage device may be a USB storage device. The web page confidence module can be configured to determine a trust level status by determining if the web page address is associated with a white list, determining if the web page address is associated with a third-party confidence database, and\/or by determining if a web page certificate associated with the web page address is valid.","The web page confidence module may be further configured to receive a user trust level setting. In various embodiments, the web page confidence module is configured to determine a trust level status by determining if a web page associated with the web page address comprises a certificate, determine if the certificate is expired, and determine the trust level status based, at least in part, on the user trust level setting.","The device controller may indicate a trust level status by emitting a sound, displaying an image, or illuminating a light emitting diode (LED) on the portable storage device.","An exemplary method for indicating trustworthiness of a website with a portable storage device may comprise receiving a web page address, determining a trust level status of the web page address, and indicating a trust level status on the portable storage device based on the trust level determination.","Exemplary computer readable medium may have embodied thereon executable code, the code being executable by a processor to perform a method for indicating trustworthiness of a website with a portable storage device, the method comprising receiving a web page address, determining a trust level status of the web page address, and indicating a trust level status on the portable storage device based on the trust level determination.","The embodiments discussed herein are illustrative of one example of the present invention. As these embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to illustrations, various modifications or adaptations of the methods and\/or specific structures described may become apparent to those skilled in the art. All such modifications, adaptations, or variations that rely upon the teachings of the present invention, and through which these teachings have advanced the art, are considered to be within the scope of the present invention. Hence, these descriptions and drawings should not be considered in a limiting sense, as it is understood that the present invention is in no way limited to only the embodiments illustrated.","A secure storage device, such as portable memory device, can require the user to input a user code offline to unlock the stored data within the secure storage device. A user code is manually input the secure storage device and comprises a password, code, or a user identifier. The user code can be a unique set of characters that may contain a variety of characters (alphanumeric, numeric, symbols, or special characters). In other embodiments, the user code can comprise a user identifier such as a fingerprint, voice identifier, or retina scan. Entering the user code offline comprises the user entering the user code into the secure storage device before the secure storage device is operationally coupled with a digital device. To be operationally coupled, the secure storage device is coupled with a digital device and is enabled to receive commands and\/or data from the digital device. A digital device is any device with a processor capable of sending or receiving data (e.g., a computer, laptop, personal digital assistant, and cell phone).","In one example, the user enters the user code into the secure storage device to authorize access to the stored data. The user can subsequently plug the secure storage device into the digital device. The digital device can then proceed to mount an unlocked data partition and access the stored data. If the user does not enter the user code or enters an incorrect user code and proceeds to plug the secure storage device into the digital device, the digital device may not be able to access the stored data.","By entering the user code directly into the secure storage device rather than through a digital device, neither the stored data nor the device driver may be accessed. In some embodiments, the digital device does not recognize the secure storage device and the media within the secure storage device cannot be mounted until the correct user code is entered. Consequently, the stored data cannot be copied from the secure storage device without a user code. As a result, the stored data cannot be copied from the secure storage device onto another media to attack the user code or apply new software attacks to retrieve the stored data. The danger of theft of the secure storage device is reduced as the thief may not be able to access the stored data.","A portable storage device is any storage device (e.g., hard drive, flash device, USB storage device) that is designed to be operatively coupled with the digital device. A portable storage device may comprise a secure storage device.","In various embodiments, the portable storage device may indicate a trust level status of a web page. The portable storage device may receive a web page address that the user of the digital device wishes to visit. The portable storage device may determine the trust level status of the web page associated with the web page address. The trust level status may be indicated on the portable storage device.","Referring to , a secure storage device  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is shown. The secure storage device  comprises a USB connector  coupled to a secure storage device housing . A user can turn a user input dial  to enter the user code into the secure storage device . In various embodiments, a display  (discussed further herein) may display characters or text to the user. The display  may display information to the user indicating that the user code is correct or incorrect.","In some embodiments, the display  and\/or an authorization indicator (not depicted) indicates when the user code has been accepted and access to the stored data on the secure storage device  has been authorized. The authorization indicator may be a light emitting diode (LED), a speaker, or any other device that can indicate that access to the stored data has been authorized.","In one example, a user carries stored data within the secure storage device . Prior to plugging the secure storage device  into a digital device's USB port, the user enters the user code into the secure storage device  by turning the user input dial  to enter the user code. After the correct user code has been entered, the display  can illuminate or otherwise indicate that access to the stored data has been authorized. The user may then proceed to plug the secure storage device  into the digital device to access the stored data.","If the user fails to enter the correct user code but plugs the secure storage device  into the digital device, the digital device may fail to recognize the secure storage device , fail to mount the digital media within the secure storage device , fail to execute the device driver for the secure storage device , and\/or be unable to access the stored data.","The user may operate the user input dial  to input the user code and\/or operate a menu displayed on the display . In some embodiments, the user may operate the user input dial  in a manner similar to a blackberry jog dial.","The display  is any screen that may display information. In some embodiments, the display  is a LCD display. The display  may display information indicating that access to the stored data is authorized, that the device is locked, that the user name is incorrect, or that a password is incorrect.","In various embodiments, the display  can display information that a web page is trustworthy, untrustworthy, or in question. In some examples, if a web page is determined to be untrustworthy, the display  can flash a red color, display text indicating that the web page is untrustworthy, display an image, or any combination of color, text, and\/or images. If a web page is determined to be trustworthy, the display  can flash a green color, display text indicating that the web page is trustworthy or secure, display an image, or any combination of color, text, and\/or images. Similarly, if the trustworthiness of the web page is unknown or unable to be determined, the display  may flash an orange color, display text, display an image, or any combination.","The display  may also display information if a web page has a secured connection (e.g., https, SSL, VPN, TSL). In one example, the display  may display an image of a key if a secure web page or encrypted channel is successfully accessed.","The USB connector  can be coupled to any USB port of the digital device. Although a USB connector  is depicted in , the secure storage device  is not limited to a USB type connector. In some embodiments, the secure storage device  can be coupled to the digital device through a firewire port, Ethernet connector, serial port, parallel port, SCSI port, or ATA connector. Further, the secure storage device  can operationally couple wirelessly to the digital device over 802.11 a\/b\/g\/n standards, Bluetooth, or wireless USB. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the secure storage device  can be operationally coupled to the digital device in many ways.","In various embodiments, the secure storage device  can be physically or wirelessly coupled to the digital device but the connection is not operational until the user code is entered into the secure storage device . In one example, the secure storage device  comprises the USB connector  coupled to the digital device. Until the user code is entered into the secure storage device , the digital device may not recognize the secure storage device , load the device driver for the secure storage device , or mount the media contained within the secure storage device .","The storage device housing  may contain any type of data storage medium or storage system as well as a power source. The data storage medium (not depicted) may comprise flash memory (e.g., NAND flash or NOR flash memory), a hard drive, ram disk, or any other kind of data storage. A storage system (further described in ) can comprise the data storage medium. The power source (not depicted) can be a rechargeable battery, a replaceable battery (e.g., AA), or a capacitor. In some embodiments, the battery or capacitor can be recharged by the digital device through the USB connector  (or any connector that couples the secure storage device  to the digital device).","Similarly, although the user code input is facilitated by the radial dial input  in , it is apparent to those skilled in the art that the user code can be input into the secure storage device  in many ways. In one example, the secure storage device  comprises a keypad with which the user can press keys to enter the user code. In another example, the secure storage device  comprises a biometric sensor which can receive the voice, fingerprint, or retina scan of the user as the user code. The secure storage device  can also comprise a radial knob input, a user input dial, and a code indicator which may be used by a user to input the user code.","The optional authorization indicator displays an indicator when the user code has been accepted and that access to the stored data is authorized. The authorization indicator can comprise a light emitting diode (LED) that emits a light to indicate that the user code has been accepted. In some embodiments, the authorization indicator can generate a light of a first color to indicate user code acceptance (e.g., green) and a second color to indicate that the user code has been rejected (e.g., red). The authorization indicator may comprise multiple LEDs to indicate user code acceptance, rejection, or lockout of the secure storage device  (further discussed in ).","Similarly, the authorization indicator may illuminate different LEDs based on the trustworthiness of a web page. If a web page is trusted, the authorization indicator may illuminate a green LED. If the web page is not trusted or is untrustworthy then the authorization indicator may illuminate a red LED. If the trustworthiness of the web page is uncertain or unable to be determined, the authorization indicator may illuminate an orange or yellow LED.","An authorization lockout may be triggered if one or more incorrect user codes are received. An authorization lockout locks the secure storage device  so that the secure storage device  will refuse to accept any user codes until reset. In other embodiments, a sound may be generated by the secure storage device  to indicate that the user code has been accepted or rejected.","In some embodiments, the secure storage device  comprises a speaker (not depicted). The speaker may emit a sound (e.g., a \u201cbeep\u201d) based on the trust level status of a web page. In one example, the speaker emits a single sound if the web page is trustworthy, two sounds if the trustworthiness of the web page is uncertain, and three sounds if the web page is untrustworthy.","A storage device protective cap  may be coupled to the secure storage device . The storage device protective cap  may protect the USB connector . In some embodiments, the storage device protective cap  may lock to the secure storage device . The storage device protective cap  may be automatically unlocked when the user enters the correct user name or password into the secure storage device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","100","200","210","210","220","230","200","250","260","270","280"]},"The device controller  can comprise the device driver for the secure storage device . The device controller  controls the communication with the digital device (not depicted) as well as the operations within the secure storage device . In some embodiments, the device controller  can control a processor or circuitry within the secure storage device .","In various embodiments, the device controller  receives an identification query from a digital device requesting the type of device of the secure storage device . If authorized, the device controller  can respond by transmitting a signal to the digital device identifying the secure storage device  and allowing any digital media to be mounted within the operating system of the digital device. If not authorized, the device controller  may refuse to respond or reject the digital device's attempts to mount the digital media.","In other embodiments, the device controller  receives the identification query from the digital device and identifies the secure storage device  as a compact disc (CD). The digital device may then attempt to automatically run an authorization check program from the device controller . This feature is similar to automatically playing the first song on an audio CD upon loading of the CD. The authorization check program can determine if access to the stored data is authorized. If access to stored data is not authorized, the authorization check program may terminate or the transmission of data between the digital device and the secure storage device  may terminate. Further, the device controller  may refuse to allow the digital device access to the database  and\/or refuse to allow the digital media to be mounted.","The device controller  may also control the authorization indicator () based on an authorization indicator signal from the authorization module . In one example, if access to the stored data is authorized, the device controller  may send a signal to the authorization indicator to illuminate an LED or generate a sound to indicate that access to the stored data is authorized. The device controller  can also generate a signal to the authorization indicator to illuminate an LED or generate a sound to indicate that authorization is denied or that the secure storage device  is locked.","The keystore module  authorizes access to the stored data within the database . The keystore module  comprises the authorization module  and optionally a file system . In some embodiments, the keystore module  also comprises one or more authentication passwords to authorize access to the stored data. In other embodiments, the one or more authentication passwords are within the file system . An authentication password is a password, code, or key retained the secure storage device  to authenticate the user code.","The authorization module  receives the user code or a security code (discussed herein) and determines if the user is authorized to access the stored data. In exemplary embodiments, the authorization module  determines if the user is authorized to access the stored data based on the user code (or the security code) and the one or more authentication passwords. In one example, the authorization module decrypts an authentication password with user code (or security code). If the decrypted authentication password is correct, then the user may be authorized to access the stored data. If the user is authorized to access the stored data, the authorization module  may transmit an authorization signal to the device controller  to authorize access. If the user is not authorized, the authorization module  may refuse to respond to subsequent attempts to access the data (e.g., locking the secured storage device ).","In some embodiments, the secure storage device  does not comprise authentication passwords. As a result, the authorization module  can base the authorization determination on the user code. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many methods in which the authorization module  determine authorization to access the stored data based, at least in part, on the user code or security code.","The file system  can maintain a list of one or more authentication passwords and\/or the file system of the database . In various embodiments, the file system  can associate each authentication password with a different partition within the digital media. As a result, separate user codes may access different partitions within the digital media. In one example, a first user code entered by a user may authorize access to a partition with data used at the user's home. A second user code may authorize access to a partition with business data. As a result, a single secure storage device  may be shared with co-workers or others which may be allowed to access some, but not all, of the stored data retained within the secure storage device . In other embodiments, the file system  can maintain a list of one or more user codes associated with the different partitions within the digital media.","Further, in some embodiments, the file system  maintains the scrambled database file system of the database . The database file system is a map of the stored data retained within the database . Without the database file system, the digital device may not be able to identify stored data contained within the database . By separating the database file system from the database , a thief who removes the database  from the secure storage device  may fail to steal the database file system. Further, the database file system may be scrambled. The authorization module  can unscramble the database file system within the file system  or the database  when access to the stored data is authorized.","The encryptor  functions to encrypt or decrypt security codes, stored data within the database , or the file system . In exemplary embodiments, the stored data within the database  is encrypted. If access to stored data is authorized, the encryptor  encrypts data transmitted from the digital device prior to storage within the database . Further, as stored data is requested from the database , the encryptor  can decrypt the stored data prior to transmission of the stored data to the digital device. As a result, the stored data within the database  may always be encrypted.","The encryptor  can also decrypt the security code using the user code prior to authorization. When the security code is decrypted, the security code may be sent to the authorization module  where it may be compared to the one or more authentication passwords within the keystore module . In some embodiments, the database  and the keystore module  are retained on separate chips within the secure storage device .","The database  can comprise one more databases or other data structures of stored data. The database  may be contained within a storage system. The storage system is further discussed in .","The user interface module  controls the user interface (e.g., the radial dial input  in ) and receives the user code. In exemplary embodiments, the user interface module  receives the user code from the user. In some embodiments, the user interface module  sends the user code to the encryptor  to decrypt the user code. In other embodiments, the user interface module  sends the user code to the encryptor  to decrypt a security code. The security code may be used to authorize access to the stored data.","The web page confidence module  is configured to receive a web page address from the digital device over the device controller  or a browser (e.g., a browser stored within the database . The web page confidence module  subsequently determine the trust level status of the web page associated with the web page address. The web page confidence module  may direct the display , a speaker, an LED, or any other device coupled to the secure storage device  to indicate the trust level status. A trust level status is a determination that the web page or the web site associated with the web page address is trustworthy (e.g., trusted or secure), untrustworthy (e.g., not trusted or not secure), or unknown (e.g., not determined or unable to be determined). In various embodiments, the trust level status of a web page or web site based on the web page address is determined before the web page is loaded or accessed by a browser.","In one example, when the secure storage device  is initially coupled to the digital device, the user is given the option to install a web trust client on the digital device. In some embodiments, the offer to install the web trust client may be displayed on the digital device or the display  on the secure storage device . The web trust client may forward web page addresses typed or visited by the user with a browser to the web page confidence module . Alternatively, the web trust client may set up a proxy in the browser. When the user visits a web page, the web page address is transmitted through the proxy and is also received by the web page confidence module .","In some embodiments, the database  contains a browser such as Firefox or Internet Explorer. The user may access the browser to browse web pages on the Internet. Web page addresses of web pages the user visits may be provided to the web page confidence module . In some embodiments, the user accesses the browser to securely surf the web. The browser may be limited to only visiting trusted web pages or only visiting those web pages not associated with a given black list. In various embodiments, the web page confidence module  may direct the proxy to bar access to web site addresses that are not secure (e.g., with an untrusted trust level status) or unknown trustworthiness (e.g., the trust level status is unknown or unable to be determined.)","The web page confidence module  may comprise or have access to a white list, black list, or third-party confidence database. In some embodiments, the white list, black list, or third-party confidence database is contained within the database  or the web page confidence module . In other embodiments, the web page confidence module  checks web page addresses against a white list, black list, or third-party confidence database on the digital device or over a network coupled to the digital device.","A white list is a list of web site addresses that are trustworthy. In some embodiments, the web page confidence module  builds the white list based on valid web page certificates and\/or the user's designation that the web page or site is trusted. In some embodiments, all web pages accessed over a secure connection (e.g., https) is added to the white list. In other embodiments, producers of web pages or third-party businesses may generate a white list of secure web sites. The white list may be downloaded from the digital device and\/or a network coupled to the digital device over predetermined periods in order to update the white list.","In various embodiments, the web page confidence module  authenticates the white list. In one example, the white list is decrypted by a public key within the secure storage device . As a result, the white list may not be available to the digital device in order to prevent tampering. The web page confidence module  may also check the integrity of the white list by comparing a signed hash of the white list to a hash of the white list that the web page confidence module  can create. If the hashes match, then the web page confidence module  may accept the white list.","A black list is a list of web site addresses that are untrustworthy. In some embodiments, the web page confidence module  builds the black list based on invalid web page certificates and\/or the user's designation that the web page or site is untrusted. In some embodiments, all web pages that contain images of questionable value (e.g., pornography) or downloads of illegal software may be added to the black list by the web page confidence module . In other embodiments, producers of web pages or third-party businesses may generate a black list of unsecure web sites.","Many publicly available lists may be used as a black list. In one example, family software providers may provide a list of web pages and web sites that are unsafe for children. The web page confidence module  may download the list from the family software or add the list to the black list. In other embodiments, a business may provide a black list of sites not suitable for work. The black list may be downloaded and updated from the digital device and\/or a network coupled to the digital device over predetermined periods.","A third-party confidence database is a database of identifiers (e.g., addresses) that are associated with web pages and web sites. The third-party confidence database may comprise identifiers of both safe and unsafe web pages and web sites. In some embodiments, the web page confidence module  transmits a query comprising the web page address to the third-party confidence database to determine if the web page address is associated with a web page that is safe (e.g., secure) or unsafe (e.g., unsecure.) In some examples, the third-party confidence database may be provided on a network by Ironkey or Verisign.","In various embodiments, the user may verify that the web page visited is valid based on the determination that the web page is secure. Many phishing scams include web pages that look like legitimate web pages (e.g., eBay or Wells Fargo) but are, in reality, attempting to trick the user into providing an account number or password. If the user accesses the correct web page address (i.e., not the phishing scam sites), then the web page confidence module  may recognize the web page address as secure. If the user is tricked or mistypes a web page address, the web page confidence module  may either not recognize the web page address or determine that the web page is not secure.","In some embodiments, the web page confidence module  receives a user trust setting. The user trust setting may be entered into the display  via the radial dial input  or an interface provided by the web trust client. In various embodiments, the web page confidence module  retrieves one or more user trust settings from the browser's security settings or third-party security software (e.g., Internet security software, firewalls, or spyware software.)","The user trust setting may provide instructions for trustworthiness and\/or commands to download or access a white list, black list, or third-party confidence database. In one example, the user trust setting provides instructions that any web page address not associated with a black list, white list, or third-party database must be accessed over a secure connection or have a valid web page certificate before being identified as trustworthy. Alternatively, if the web page address does not have a valid web page certificate, the user trust settings may indicate that the web page associated with the web page address is not trustworthy or not secure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the user trust settings can be used in many ways to determine a trust status level.","The web page confidence module  may use the user trust settings to configure the web page confidence module  to download a white list or black list from one or more specific locations on a network at predetermined times. The user trust settings may also comprise a location of the third-party confidence database. In one example, the web page confidence module  queries the third-party confidence database identified within the user trust settings to determine the trust status level of a web page address.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["270","300"]},"In step , the authorization module  () determines if access to the stored data is authorized. In one example, the authorization module  receives and compares the user code to the one or more authentication passwords within the keystore module  () or the file system  (). If the authorization module  determines that access to the stored data is authorized, then the authorization module  may generate a signal to the device controller  () to allow or provide access to the stored data in step . Once access to the stored data is authorized, a digital device (not depicted) may access the data stored within the database  of the secure storage device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["400","270","270","250","220"]},"In step , the authorization module  determines if access to stored data is authorized. In one example, the authorization module  receives and processes the security code. The authorization module  can base the authorization determination, at least in part, upon the security code. In other embodiments, the authorization module  can base the authorization determination, at least in part, upon the security code and an authentication password. In an example, the authorization module  can retrieve the authentication password from the keystore module  (), the file system  (), or the database  (). In some embodiments, the authentication password is stored with one or more other authentication passwords. The authentication password may be stored in a hash table and\/or encrypted. If the authorization module  determines that access to the stored data is authorized, then the device controller  () can send a signal to illuminate the LED to indicate authorization in step . If access to the stored data is not authorized,  ends. Lockout and resetting the secure storage device  is further discussed in .","In step , in response to authorization to access the stored data, the encryptor  decrypts the encryption key. The encryption key can be used to encrypt data received from the digital device prior to storing within the database . Similarly, the encryption key can be used to decrypt stored data received from the database  to send to the digital device. The process of encryption\/decryption can occur during saving and transmitting data with no appreciable loss of speed. In some embodiments, an encryption key and a separate decryption key are decrypted by the encryptor .","Upon authorization, the device controller  can descramble the database file system contained within the file system . As a result, the data partition containing the database  may be mounted once the secure storage device  is operationally coupled to the digital device.","In exemplary embodiments, after authorization is indicated, the secure storage device  () can be operationally coupled with a digital device. In one example, the user inputs the correct user code and receives an indication that access to the stored data is authorized. The user can then couple the secure storage device  to the digital device, which subsequently sends an identification query to the secure storage device .","In step , optionally in response to an identification query from the digital device, the device controller  sends a signal to the digital device to identify the secure storage device  and mount the data partition. In step , the device controller  receives a request for stored data from the digital device. The requested stored data is unencrypted by the encryptor  with the proper encryption key prior to sending the requested stored data to the digital device in step .","In exemplary embodiments, the access to the stored data is authorized only for a predetermined period of time before re-authorization is required. In one example, access to the stored data within the secure storage device  remains authorized for two minutes unless the secure storage device  is operationally coupled to a digital device during that time.","In other embodiments, re-authorization is required after a predetermined period of inactivity. In one example, access to stored data is authorized and the secure storage device  is subsequently operationally coupled to a digital device via a USB connector. If data is not stored on the secure storage device  or retrieved from the secure storage device  within 30 minutes, then access to stored data may be denied until re-authorization.","In some embodiments, re-authorization is required after the secure storage device  is decoupled from the digital device or after the user presses a switch or button to terminate the session. In one example, the user unplugs the secure storage device  from a USB port on the digital device which terminates the session and access to the stored data requires re-authorization. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that there may be many ways to terminate a session and require re-authorization.","In exemplary embodiments, the user can change or otherwise customize the user code. In one example, the user code comprises numbers, letters, symbols, or special characters. The user may enter a customize code to change the user code. In an example, the customize code can be sent from the manufacturer with the secure storage device . In another example, the user downloads the customize code from a website. The customize code may be unique to each secure storage device. Further, the customize code may change on every code change or after a predetermined time interval.","The user code can also comprise a fingerprint, voice identifier, or retina scan. In various embodiments, the customize code can be entered into the secure storage device  through buttons or switches. The fingerprint, voice identifier, or retina scan can then be entered. The entered fingerprint, voice identifier, or retina scan can then be used as the user code.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","500","200","100"]},"In step , the authorization module  () authenticates the user code to determine if access to the stored data is authorized. If access to the stored data is authorized, then the device controller  provides an operationally coupled digital device access to the stored data in step . If access to the stored data is not authorized and the user code is incorrect, the device controller  transmits a signal to illuminate an LED to indicate that denial of authorization in step . In one example, the LED is red which indicates the denial of authorization. In other embodiments, a sound is generated by the secure storage device  or light and one or more sounds are generated by the secure storage device  to indicate denial of authorization.","In step , the device controller  locks authorization to the stored data. This \u201clock out\u201d requires that the secure storage device  be reset before access to the stored data is authorized. In some embodiments, a predetermined number of attempts to authorize access occur before the secure storage device  is locked out. The device controller  can transmit a signal to the authorization indicator () to indicate that the secure storage device  is locked.","In exemplary embodiments, the user visits a product website, identifies the secure storage device , and requests a reset key. The reset key is a code that resets the secure storage device  so that the user can seek access to the stored data. In one example, the user creates an account on a website and must answer specific questions to authenticate the user's identity prior to requesting the reset key. The reset key can change over an interval of time, upon every use, or upon each request for the reset key. In other embodiments, the user receives the reset key upon purchase of the secure storage device .","In step , the device controller  receives the reset key from the user. The reset key can be used to decrypt a reset code prior to resetting the secure storage device . Further, the authorization module  may determine that the reset key and\/or the reset code are authentic prior to resetting.","In step , the device controller  resets the secure storage device . In some embodiments, the device controller  transmits a signal to the authorization indicator to indicate that the secure storage device  is no longer locked. In some embodiments, the device controller  transmits an unlock signal to the authorization module to unlock the secure storage device  so that the secure storage device  can again receive a user code to access the stored data in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["100","100","600","610","620","630","640","650","660","670","600","600"]},"The memory  is any memory configured to store data. Some examples of the memory  are storage devices, such as RAM or ROM.","The storage system  is any storage configured to retrieve and store data. Some examples of the storage system  are flash drives, hard drives, optical drives, and\/or magnetic tape. The storage system  can comprise a database  () or other data structure configured to hold and organize data. In some embodiments, the secure storage device  includes a memory system  in the form of RAM and a storage system  in the form of flash data.","The user interface  is any device that can receive a user code. The user interface  can be, but is not limited to, a radial dial, keypad, or biosensor.","The communication interface  can be coupled to any digital device via the link . As discussed in , the communication interface  may support communication over a USB connection, a firewire connection, an Ethernet connection, a serial connection, a parallel connection, or an ATA connection. The communication interface  may also support wireless communication (e.g., 802.11 a\/b\/g\/n or wireless USB). It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the communication interface  can support many wired and wireless standards.","The feedback system  is any indicator that signals the user that access to the stored data within the secure storage device  is authorized. In some examples, the feedback system  can be an LED light or sound. The feedback system  may also indicate that access to the stored data is not authorized or that the secure storage device  is locked.","The optional power system  is any system that can provide power to the secure storage device. The power system  can supply power to the secure storage device  to receive the user code and authorize access to the stored data. In one example, the power system  comprises a rechargeable battery, a replaceable battery, or a capacitor. The batteries or capacitor may be recharged with a power recharger or from power received from the digital device. In some embodiments, the power system  is optional, and the user code can be passively received. Once the secure storage device  is coupled to the digital device, power can be received from the digital device and the authorization process completed.","In some embodiments, the power system  supplies power to the processor  when the secure storage device  is not coupled to a digital device. In one example, the power system  supplies power to the processor  during the process of receiving the user code and authorization. Once the secure storage device  is coupled to the digital device, the digital device may supply power to the secure storage device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","280","280","100"]},"In step , the web page confidence module  determines a trust level status of the web page associated with the web page address. The web page confidence module  may check the web page address against a white list, black list, or third-party database to determine if the web page associated with the web page address is trustworthy, untrustworthy, or unknown. The web page confidence module  may also access user trust settings.","In one example, the user may select a \u201chigh\u201d, \u201cmedium\u201d, or \u201clow\u201d setting within the user trust settings for security. A \u201chigh\u201d setting may indicate that web pages that do not meet a rigorous security standard (e.g., on a white list and comprising a valid web page certificate) are untrustworthy. A \u201cmedium\u201d setting may result in more web pages being identified as \u201cunknown\u201d if the web page address is not on a white list or black list. A \u201clow\u201d setting may result in even more web pages being identified as \u201cunknown\u201d. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many settings and that there may be many requirements (e.g., check against third-party confidence databases, secure channels, valid and unexpired certificates) that may or not be required based on the user security setting.","In step , the web page confidence module  transmits a command to the display , the authorization indicator, a speaker, LED, or any device associated with the secure storage device  to indicate the trust status level of a given web page or web page that is currently being visited by the user. In one example, the web page confidence module  transmits a command to the display  to display text, an image, or a color indicating that the web page is trustworthy, untrustworthy, or unknown.","Although three trust status levels are described (i.e., trustworthy, untrustworthy, and unknown), those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many trust status levels and a different indicator for each trust status level. In one example, trust status levels are not discrete values but are continuous. As a web page is increasingly trustworthy, the display  may display a greener color. Alternatively, if the web page is increasingly untrustworthy, the display  may display a redder color. In some embodiments, a slider is displayed on the display  that indicates the level of security associated with the web page.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","100"]},"In step , the secure storage device  receives the user trust setting. Upon initially coupling the secure storage device  with the digital device, the user may be invited to input one or more user trust settings. The user may select or enter white lists, black lists, and\/or third-party confidence databases. Further, the user may select a setting for the secure storage device (e.g., \u201chigh\u201d, \u201cmedium\u201d, or \u201clow\u201d). The user may also manually enter web site addresses that are to be trusted or untrusted.","The user may also select to enter a setting so to limit access to web pages or web sites. For example, the user may require that all web sites visited by the browser have a trusted trust status level. The browser may then be barred by the web page confidence module  to prevent a web page with an unknown or untrusted status level to be visited.","In step , the secure storage device  receives a web page address. In one example, the web trust client provides the web page address to the secure storage device . In another example, a proxy forwards the web page address to the secure storage device . In other embodiments, a browser within the database  may be configured to forward the web page address to the web page confidence module .","In step , the secure storage device  determines if the web page address is associated with a white list. The white list may be updated periodically or updated upon activation of the browser. The secure storage device  may also query a white list over a network coupled to the digital device to determine if the web page address is associated with the white list. If the web page address is associated with the white list, the secure storage device  may indicate trusted trust level status in step .","If the web page address is not associated with a white list, the secure storage device  determines if the web page is associated with a black list in step . Similar to the white list, the black list may be updated periodically or updated upon activation of the browser. The secure storage device  may also query a black list over a network coupled to the digital device to determine if the web page address is associated with the black list. If the web page address is associated with the black list, the secure storage device  may indicate untrusted or unsecure trust level status in step .","If the web page address is not associated with a white list or black list, the secure storage device  determines if the web page is associated with a third-party confidence database in step . The third-party confidence database may be downloaded and stored within the database  or the digital device. In other embodiments, the secure storage device  queries the third-party confidence database over a network coupled to the digital device to determine if the web page address is associated with the third-party confidence database. If the third-party database determines that the web site address is trusted or untrusted, the secure storage device  may indicate the trust level status in step .","In step , the secure storage device  determines the trust level status based, at least in part, on the user trust setting, if there is one. The secure storage device  may store the user trust setting within the database , the web page confidence module , or the digital device. The secure storage device  can also access the user trust setting within the browser or over a network coupled to the digital device (e.g., the user trust settings may be maintained on a web site accessible over a network or Internet). The trust level status may indicate the factors that must be satisfied to qualify as trusted or untrusted.","If no user trust setting is available, the secure storage device  may comprise a default trust level status policy whereby all web pages over secured connections or with valid certificates verified by a third-party trustee (e.g., Verisign) are trusted and all others are either unknown or untrusted. The default trust level status policy may also identify any web page address that is similar to but not a trusted web page address to be untrusted (e.g., misspellings of banking web site addresses).","In step , the secure storage device  indicates the trust level status. In various embodiments, a speaker, LED, or display  on the secure storage device  indicates the trust level status based on the trust level status determination. In one example, an LED may be continuously illuminated to indicate the trust level status (e.g., trusted.) In another example, the LED may blink to indicate an untrusted trust level status. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many ways to indicate trust level status.","In other embodiments, the secure storage device  commands a browser, API, or agent to indicate of the trust level status on a display of the digital device. In one example, traffic lights may appear within the browser with each color indicating the trust level status. There may be many ways to indicate a trust level status within a browser or display of the digital device.","Although many of the embodiments discussed herein discuss a secure storage device , the embodiments may be used with any portable and\/or removable storage device, including, but not limited to portable flash storage device, a USB storage device, or portable hard drive. In one example, a USB storage device comprises a web page confidence module  configured to receive a web site address, determine the trust level status of a web page associated with the web site address, and direct a command to indicate the trust level status on the USB storage device (e.g., to a speaker within the USB storage device, LED, display, or any other indicator). Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any portable storage device may be used with embodiments of the claimed invention.","The above-described functions can be comprised of executable instructions that are stored on storage media. The executable instructions can be retrieved and executed by the processor . Some examples of executable instructions are software, program code, and firmware. Some examples of storage media are memory devices, tape, disks, integrated circuits, and servers. The executable instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the invention. Those skilled in the art are familiar with executable instructions, processor(s), and storage media."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
