---
title: Systems and methods for selectively reviewing a recorded conference
abstract: A method for selectively reviewing a conference includes synchronously recording an audio conference and content presented in a conference user interface to generate a recorded conference, the conference user interface published to a client device associated with one or more participants, using a characteristic of the conference user interface to index the recorded conference and providing a review interface, responsive to at least one indicator that identifies content of interest within the recorded conference. A conferencing system includes client devices with respective displays, a conference host computer operating a web server and coupled to the client devices via one or more networks, and a data store coupled to the conference host computer. The data store includes a synchronously recorded audio conference and content presented in a conference user interface that defines a recorded conference. The recorded conference includes an index responsive to a characteristic of the conference user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112980&OS=09112980&RS=09112980
owner: American Teleconferencing Services, Ltd.
number: 09112980
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111029
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part patent application of and claims priority to PCT Patent Application Serial No. PCT\/US2010\/033137, entitled \u201cRecord and Playback in a Conference\u201d (First Named Inventor: Boland T. Jones; and filed on Apr. 30, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application is related by subject matter to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/790,193, entitled \u201cRecord and Playback in a Conference;\u201d First Named Inventor: Boland T. Jones; and filed on May 28, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application is further related by subject matter to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/771,366, entitled \u201cLocation-Aware Conferencing With Graphical Interface for Participant Survey;\u201d First Named Inventor: Boland T. Jones; and filed on Apr. 30, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Currently, there are a number of conference solutions for enabling people to conduct live meetings, conferences, presentations, or other types of gatherings via the Internet, the public switched telephone network (PSTN), or other voice and\/or data networks. Participants typically use a telephone, computer, or other communication device that connects to a conference system. The meetings include an audio component and a visual component, such as, a shared presentation, video, whiteboard, or other media to communicate with one another. These conference solutions have become an indispensable form of communication for many businesses and individuals.","Despite the many advantages and commercial success of existing conference, meeting, grouping or other types of gathering systems, there remains a need in the art for improved conference, meeting, grouping or other types of gathering systems, methods, and computer programs.","Various embodiments of a conferencing system and a method for selectively reviewing a conference are disclosed. One embodiment is a conferencing system that includes an interface that publishes controls to review a recorded conference. The conferencing system includes client devices, a conferencing host computer, and a data store. The client devices are associated with respective display devices. The client devices are coupled to the conferencing host computer via one or more networks. The data store is coupled to the conferencing host computer and includes a synchronously recorded audio conference and content presented in a conference user interface defining a recorded conference, the recorded conference includes an index responsive to a characteristic of the conference user interface.","Another embodiment is a method for selectively reviewing a conference. The method includes synchronously recording an audio conference and the content presented in a conference user interface to generate a recorded conference, the conference user interface published to a client device associated with one or more participants, using a characteristic of the conference user interface to index the recorded conference and providing a review interface, responsive to at least one indicator that identifies content of interest within the recorded conference.","Various embodiments of systems and methods are disclosed for selectively reviewing a recorded conference. A recorded conference includes a synchronized recording of an audio conference and content presented in a conference user interface presented to one or more participants by way of client devices during the audio conference. The recorded conference may comprise any online conference, meeting, grouping, or other types of gatherings (collectively, a \u201cconference\u201d, with a system that provides the conference being referred to as a \u201cconferencing system\u201d) for any variety of purposes of one or more people, groups or organizations (including combinations thereof and collectively referred to as \u201cparticipants\u201d), including, without limitation, enabling simulcast audio with such conference for the participants. Exemplary embodiments of the conference and a conferencing system and related features may be implemented as described in the parent patent application, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/771,979, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this specification. Additional exemplary embodiments of the conference and a conferencing system that supports the conference and related features are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/790,193, the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference.","An administrator, user or subscriber to the conferencing system accesses an index configuration interface operable on a conference host computer to identify information to be applied to a conference as it is being recorded or reviewed. The conference or recorded conference is modified by inserting one or pointers or locators when the identified information to be applied is present in the conference data either as it is being recorded or when the identified information is present in a recorded conference as it is being reviewed.","For example, an administrator of the conferencing system determines that conference participant feedback will be of interest to a reviewer of the recorded conference. Conference participant feedback can be communicated on multiple levels. Conference participant feedback is communicated by participants of the conference as the conference is recorded as described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/771,366, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this specification. Participant level feedback includes a score, a sign, or other indicator communicated by a participant of the recorded conference by way of an associated client device. The score or sign will generally indicate a participant's respective opinion regarding what is presently being presented in the conference. Conference level participant feedback includes a measure of feedback from two or more participants of the recorded conference. As the conference level participant feedback may vary (e.g., positive, neutral, negative, among others) among the conference participants, the measure of feedback may be mathematically or statistically combined.","By way of further example, an administrator of the conferencing system determines that a participant's audio channel will be of interest to a reviewer of the recorded conference. Accordingly, the administrator configures the conferencing system to apply this information as the conference is being recorded. Note that this can also be configured as a default operation of an indexer and\/or a recorder associated with the conferencing system. When the conferencing system is so configured, the conferencing system will use one or more characteristics of the conference user interface to index the conference. For example, a characteristic of a participant information cube can be used to identify when a particular participant is speaking. As indicated previously, the conference information can be so modified (i.e., indexed) either in real time as the conference is being initially recorded or at any desired time thereafter, while a recorded conference is being reviewed. Note that a review operation may be performed under the direction and control of a user of the conferencing system through the operation of a client device coupled to the conferencing system or alternatively a review operation may be automated and operate under the direction and control of a processor executing a routine or routines each of which including one or more executable instructions.","An administrator, user or subscriber to the conferencing system accesses a second or review interface to replay a recorded and modified (i.e., indexed) conference as may be desired. The second or review interface includes controls to play or rewind in real-time, as well as controls for moving forward or in reverse in accordance with one or more advanced rates to review the recorded conference. Additional controls are included for pausing and\/or stopping the recorded conference.","The second or review interface is a graphical user interface that presents those portions of the recorded conference where an identified participant is speaking, the recorded conference skipping over those portions of the recorded conference where participants other than the identified participant are speaking. This is accomplished by the operator selecting a participant of interest in the review interface. The conferencing system responds by presenting a timeline that reveals those times during the recorded conference when the participant of interest was speaking. An indicator in registration with the timeline can be manipulated by an operator of the client device to navigate through the recorded conference as may be desired.","In another mode of operation, the second or review interface enables an administrator, user or subscriber to the conferencing system to control a review of a recorded and modified (i.e. indexed) conference based on the presence or lack thereof of an identified feedback characteristic. In this review mode, an operator of the review interface identifies a select feedback characteristic to identify portions of the recorded conference for review. When the identified or select feedback characteristic is present in the recorded conference, the playback of the recorded conference skips over those portions of the recorded conference where one or more feedback characteristics other than the identified or select feedback characteristic is present. In this way, a reviewer of the prerecorded conference can selectively review portions of the prerecorded conference that related to the feedback of interest.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","104","124","104","106","124","102","106","122","110","110","106","124","102","104","104","124","104","104","126","126","142","104","102","146","126","104","124"],"i":["a ","b","a ","b ","n "]},"The client devices  may comprise any desirable client device, which is configured to communicate with the conferencing system  and the web server(s)  via the networks . The client device  may comprise, for example, a personal computer, a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a mobile client device, a portable computing device, a smart phone, a cellular telephone, a landline telephone, a soft phone, a web-enabled electronic book reader, a tablet computer, or any other client device  capable of communicating with the conferencing system  and\/or the web server(s)  via one or more networks . The client device  may include a display device , a processor, memory, and software, including an operating system , a graphical user interface , and client software (e.g., a browser , plug-in, or other functionality) configured to facilitate communication with the conferencing system  and the web server(s) . It should be appreciated that the hardware, software, and any other performance specifications of the client device  are not critical and may be configured according to the particular context in which the client device  is to be used. In this regard, the client device  may include one or more transducers  for reproducing one or more an audio signals as well as an operator interface  for receiving inputs from an operator of the client device . Further in this regard, the operator interface  may include one or more of a touch sensitive screen, a keyboard, a microphone, a thumb wheel or other human-machine interface that functions in conjunction with the GUI .","The conferencing system  generally comprises a communication system for establishing an audio conference  between the client devices . The conferencing system  may support audio via a voice network and\/or a data network. In one of a number of possible embodiments, the conferencing system  may be configured to support, among other platforms, a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) conferencing platform such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/637,291 entitled \u201cVoIP Conferencing,\u201d filed on Dec. 12, 2006, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. It should be appreciated that the conferencing system  may support various alternative platforms, technologies, protocols, standards, features, etc. Regardless of the communication infrastructure, the conferencing system  is configured to establish a data and\/or audio connection with the client devices . The conferencing system  may establish the audio conference  by combining audio streams associated with the participant client devices .","The conferencing system  includes web server(s) , a notification application , an authentication application , the conference user interface , an application programming interface (API) , a recorder , an indexer , a configuration interface  and a review interface . The web server(s)  are computers, virtual machines, or computer operated programs that publish information from the conference user interface  to coupled client devices  using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), over the networks . The conferencing system  is coupled to a client device  that is arranged with one or more operator to machine interfaces for configuring one or more of the web servers , the applications and interfaces.","The authentication application  is a computer operated program that is arranged to confirm the identity of a possible conference participant such as the participant before connecting the client device associated with the participant to the audio conference  and before exposing the conference user interface  via a browser  and display  to the participant . The authentication application can be arranged to employ any number of queries or information exchanges with the participant in an effort to confirm the identity of the possible conference participant as a subscriber to the conferencing service provided by the conferencing system .","The authentication application  is arranged to communicate with participant store  to complete the participant authentication. The participant store  contains the names and\/or usernames and access codes for subscribers of the conferencing service supported by the conferencing system . In some embodiments the participant store  contains additional information that can be used to confirm the identity of subscribers to the conferencing service. This additional information can include images, questions associated with answers entered by an identified subscriber, among other information not commonly known by those other than the subscriber.","The notification application  is a computer operated program that is arranged to identify when certain condition(s) are present in the audio conference . For example, the notification application  is arranged to forward a notice to the conference user interface  when participant has requested to join the audio conference . The notice directs the conference user interface  to apply one or more sounds such as a tone, chime, buzz, etc. to indicate to others that someone has joined the audio conference . In addition, the notification application  can be arranged to provide participant and conference specific information to the conference user interface . Participant and conference specific information may include the identity of the moderator or host of the conference, the subject or title of the conference, a designated start and end time for the conference, a list of those invited to attend, a list of actual attendees, the number of attendees presently connected to the conference, information identifying a present speaker, among other information. The notification application  may communicate the occurrence of an event (e.g., that a nonparticipant has joined the conference and transitioned to a conference participant ) by publishing information from one of the participant store  or the conference store . The published information may comprise audio, video, text, graphics, or other information associated with a specified nonparticipant subscriber to the conferencing service. The published information may be configured and\/or approved by the nonparticipant. The published information can further include information configured by a moderator or a conferencing system administrator using a cue configuration interface (not shown).","The recorder  is an apparatus or a computer operated program that is arranged to synchronously record the audio content associated with the audio conference  with content presented by the conference user interface . The recorder  is configured to interface with a data storage device such as the conference store integrated with the conferencing system  or an external conference store communicatively coupled to the conferencing system  via one or more data or wireless networks .","The indexer  is a computer operated program that is arranged to analyze the raw data  that comprises the content presented by the conference user interface  and\/or modify the combination of the synchronously recorded audio content associated with the audio conference  and the content presented by the conference user interface . The indexer  may be arranged to identify time information, characteristics of the user interface including one or more characteristics of a participant information cube, and one or more indicators representing participant feedback in the raw data . It should be understood that the indexer  can operate in near real time as the conference is being recorded or at any time thereafter.","In accordance with the capabilities of the client device , the conference user interface  communicates conference information that is embodied on a client device  associated with a participant . The conference information may be implemented using a push methodology by which the conference information is \u201cpushed\u201d from the conferencing system , a pull methodology by which the conference information is \u201cpulled\u201d from the conferencing system  by the client device  using, for example, the conferencing API , or other communication protocols, services, methodologies, etc. The conference information can be presented by hardware and\/or software components supported by the client device , including, the browser , operating system , transducer(s)  (including speakers and\/or vibrators) and the display . When the conference information is presented with the display , the conference information is presented in the GUI .","To expose conference related information and enable interaction with participants via respective client devices  coupled to the conferencing system , the conferencing system  may support various web services for exchanging structured information with the browser  or other elements on the client device . The web services may be implemented using any suitable protocol. In one embodiment, the web services may be implemented via a Representation State Transfer (REST) architecture or system. In alternative embodiments, the web services may be implemented via the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) using Extensible Markup Language (XML) as the messaging format. The conferencing system  may respond to web service calls from one or more of the notification application , the authentication application , the configuration interface , the review interface  and additional applications by either returning the requested information immediately or by initiating the request and then providing the results (later) via a polling action. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any suitable methodology may be used to exchange data between the various applications and configuration modules and the conference system . For example, the data may be exchanged in real-time, near real-time, using push and\/or pull notifications, or any combination thereof, any of which may be customized by the user.","One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the notification application , the authentication application , the configuration interface , the review interface , the recorder  and the indexer  (and any associated or other modules described herein) may be implemented in software, hardware, firmware, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the systems are implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system, such as, for example, an instruction system operable on a server computer or web server(s) . In software or firmware embodiments, the logic may be written in any suitable computer language. In hardware embodiments, the systems may be implemented with any or a combination of the following, or other, technologies, which are all well known in the art: discrete logic circuit(s) having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) having appropriate combinational logic gates, a programmable gate array(s) (PGA), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","106","200","162","102","106","106","200","129","200","129","200","129"]},"The example configuration interface  includes a title bar , a drop-down menu bar , a tool bar  and a panel . The title bar  includes a label identifying the configuration interface  as an index configuration interface and pushbutton controls for minimizing, maximizing and closing the configuration interface  as known in the art. The drop down menu bar  includes drop down menus related to file and help specific operations. The tool bar  includes various pushbutton controls for manipulating configuration files and information within the files. Pushbutton  is associated with the operation of opening a new configuration file. Pushbutton  is associated with the operation of opening a previously created configuration file. Pushbutton  is associated with the operation of saving a configuration file. When one of the pushbuttons - is selected, a secondary information interface may be exposed to assist the user in completing the desired operation.","The panel  is arranged with selection pushbuttons. A first set of pushbuttons are used to direct the indexer  to identify conference level feedback scores. The first set of pushbuttons includes pushbutton , which is associated with a strong positive feedback from conference participants, pushbutton , which is associated with positive feedback, pushbutton , which is associated with neutral feedback, pushbutton , which is associated with negative feedback and pushbutton , which is associated with strong negative feedback from conference participants. A second set of pushbuttons are used to direct the indexer  to identify when participant level feedback is present in the conference information. The second set of pushbuttons includes pushbutton , which is associated with a strong positive feedback from individual conference participants, pushbutton , which is associated with positive feedback, pushbutton , which is associated with neutral feedback, pushbutton , which is associated with negative feedback and pushbutton , which is associated with strong negative feedback from individual conference participants. A pushbutton  is available to direct the indexer  to identify when review comments are present in the conference information. A pushbutton  is available to direct the indexer  to identify when participant audio is to be identified in the conference information.","When configured as indicated in , the configuration interface  directs the indexer  to identify each instance in the conference where feedback is present for all available scoring levels at both a conference level and at an individual level. In addition, the configuration interface  directs the indexer  to identify each instance in the conference where review comments are present and where individual participant audio can be segregated from the audio conference .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","106","300","122","106","102","162","106","300","148","102","162"]},"The review interface  exposes a recorded conference to an interested operator of the client device  or the client device . The review interface  provides a host of controls that enable the operator to selectively review a recorded conference  that is stored within the conference store or the conference store . The recorded conference includes both the audio content of the audio conference  and the synchronously recorded supplemental content that was presented via the GUI  to augment the audio conference . The review interface  includes a title bar , a room identification bar , a first or review panel  and a second or control panel . The title bar  includes a label identifying the review interface  as an iMeet interface and further includes well recognized pushbutton controls for minimizing, maximizing and closing the interface as known in the art. The room identification bar  identifies the room as belonging to Jill Doe. The review panel  may reveal all information that was provided during the original execution of the conference. Alternatively, the review panel  may filter or hide some of the information provided during the original execution of the conference to enable the reviewer to direct their attention to the activities of one or more participants of the conference and indicators of participant feedback during the conference. The review panel  may include additional controls for adjusting one or more aspects of such a filter.","In the illustrated embodiment, the review panel  of the review interface  includes participant objects  associated with respective participants of the conference. In an alternative embodiment, a group of participants is associated with a respective object that represents the group. Each of the participant objects  includes information identifying the respective participant or group of participants represented by the object. For example, participant object is associated with conference participant I.M He. In addition to text including identifying information and a photo or other iconic representation of the respective participant, the participant object includes one or more icons or indicators  that are presented and\/or change in an observable manner when I.M. He is speaking. Indicator  may be enlarged, emboldened, vibrated or otherwise modified when I.M He has arranged for audio content to be played when he joins and\/or speaks during the conference. Alternatively, the indicator  may be emboldened, displayed for a time and not displayed for a time (i.e., repeatedly turned on and off), presented with a different brightness, contrast or color than other information in the review panel  or adjusted in some other observable manner to attract the attention of a viewer of the review interface  to content of interest within the recorded conference.","In addition to an icon or indicator within a participant object such as the indicator , the review panel  is arranged to change a characteristic of a participant object  to identify when the associated participant has interacted in some manner within the conference. For example, the color, brightness, thickness, etc. of the border of the participant object may be changed in a programmed way when I.M. He joins and\/or leaves the conference, publishes a document, or takes some other action in the conference. As indicated above, a change in any characteristic of the indicator  or the participant object  can be used to index or identify a particular event in the recorded conference that may be of interest to a conference reviewer.","The control panel  includes pushbutton controls for selectively adjusting the playback or review of the recorded conference. The control panel  further includes an interactive time bar  presented on a timeline  for selectively reviewing the recorded conference. An operator of the client device  or the client device  uses a cursor and a pushbutton associated with a positional indicator or pointer displayed in the review interface  to select the controls presented in the control panel . The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to perform a fast rewind through the recorded conference information. The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to perform a rewind operation through the recorded conference information. The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to play or present the recorded conference information. The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to perform a fast forward operation through the recorded conference. The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to present the current available graphical information in the panel . This information will not change until the operator of the client device  selects another control or closes the review interface . The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to stop the playback of the recorded conference and removes information from the first or review panel .","The interactive time bar  provides an additional interactive control for selectively reviewing the recorded conference. In an example review mode, the interactive time bar  reflects a present or elapsed time of the recorded conference along a horizontally arranged timeline . The present or elapsed time is also presented in minutes and seconds in a display element . The timeline is arranged from left to right with a start time of 0:00 at above a left edge of the timeline  and the total time of the recorded conference displayed above a right edge of the timeline . In the example embodiment, the recorded conference includes 15 minutes and 40 seconds of synchronized audio and graphical information. An operator of the client device  or the client device  uses a cursor and a pushbutton or other control associated with a positional indicator  or pointer displayed in the review interface  to select or activate the interactive time bar . When activated, the operator can use the cursor to drag the interactive time bar  to a desired time along the timeline . For example, the operator can drag the interactive time bar  to review content at any desired time within the recorded conference.","When the interactive time bar is activated, the operator can select the pushbutton  to direct the review interface to skip to the start of the present content segment The selection of pushbutton  in this mode of operation directs the review interface  to skip to the start of a subsequent segment of interest . The selection of pushbutton  directs the review interface  to skip the next subsequent segment of interest and to relocate the interactive time bar  at the start of segment . A repeated selection of pushbutton  in quick succession directs the review interface  to skip the next two subsequent segments of interest , and to relocate the interactive time bar to the start of segment . An additional selection of pushbutton  in quick succession directs the review interface  to relocate the interactive time bar  at the start of segment ","In this manner the conferencing system  provides interactive controls that advance or regress the recorded conference to an event or time indirectly subsequent or previous to a present review time to present those portions of the recorded conference where an identified participant is speaking, where a particular level of feedback was indicated, or a combination of these occurrences is indicated in the recorded conference. That is the review interface  skips or avoids entirely those portions of the recorded conference that are not in accordance with the indicated interest or interests of the reviewer. The interests of the reviewer include but are not limited to a characteristic feedback, content (including audio information) from an identified participant and\/or a combination of interests. As indicated above, the indexer  () analyzes the content within the recorded conference for identifiable characteristics in the recorded conference that correspond to one or more topics of interest to the reviewer.","The segments of interest -are identified by the indexer  in accordance with a query or instruction (not shown) from the operator of the client device  indicating that information of a particular type is desired for review. For example, Jill Doe may be interested in reviewing each comment made by I.M. He during the recorded conference. By way of further example, Jill Doe may be interested in reviewing comments made by I.M. He where conference level feedback was positive. Any combination of one or more conference level feedback score, speaker or contributor of interest or groups thereof can be identified by a reviewer and used to review segments of the recorded conference that match the reviewer's identified criteria of interest.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","106","300","316","312","316","102","162","318","310","102","162"],"i":"d "},"In the example illustrated in , the interactive time bar  is aligned with the start of segment in the timeline . As further indicated by display element , the interactive time bar  is at a time 4 minutes and 25 seconds into the recorded conference. The content segments -are indicative of those portions of the recorded conference where the indexer  has identified the combination of the participant associated with participant object is speaking and conference level feedback is positive.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 1","FIG. 4B"],"b":["300","106","335","430","332","303","332","310","430","312","310","300","332","321","326"],"i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","106","504","506","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","106","604","606","106","608","106"]},"It should be appreciated that one or more of the process or method descriptions associated with the flow charts or block diagrams above may represent modules, segments, logic or portions of code that include one or more executable instructions for implementing logical functions or steps in the process. It should be further appreciated that the logical functions may be implemented in software, hardware, firmware, or any combination thereof. In certain embodiments, the logical functions may be implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a volatile memory or non-volatile memory and that is executed by hardware (e.g., microcontroller) or any other processor(s) or suitable instruction execution system associated with the conference system. Furthermore, the logical functions may be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system associated with the conference system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions.","It should be noted that this disclosure has been presented with reference to one or more exemplary or described embodiments for the purpose of demonstrating the principles and concepts of the systems and methods for selectively reviewing a conference. The systems and methods are not limited to these embodiments. As will be understood by persons skilled in the art, in view of the description provided herein, many variations may be made to the embodiments described herein and all such variations are within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
