---
title: Systems and methods for providing and customizing a virtual event platform
abstract: Systems and methods for customizing the functionalities and content of virtual event platform are disclosed. Content is received from a user using a template. Within the template the user defines and/or implements calls to an application programming interface to access various functionalities existing within the virtual event platform, as well as system variables exposed by the existing virtual event platform. The user uses the API system variables to define the customizations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966436&OS=08966436&RS=08966436
owner: INXPO, Inc.
number: 08966436
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111017
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present non-provisional utility application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to provisional application No. 61\/393,540 titled \u201cSystems and Methods for Providing and Customizing a Virtual Event Platform,\u201d filed on Oct. 15, 2011, and which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.","Aspects of the present disclosure relate to virtual event platforms, and in particular, to methods and systems for customizing a virtual event platform.","Virtual event platforms have become a common method for creating and providing interactive content, in the form of customized virtual events, to a large audience over the Internet, both in real time and on-demand. For example, a university may create a virtual student orientation event in which university administrators offer introductory speeches and related content to students; a business enterprise may design a virtual event introducing new employees to the company; and\/or a retail organization may design an interactive virtual event allowing customers to learn about the various products it offers for sale.","While the use of virtual event platforms has become more popular, current developmental processes used to customize existing virtual event platforms to generate custom virtual events may be time consuming and labor intensive, and often require highly skilled development teams. Moreover, many virtual event platforms are implemented to present only static content, resulting in monotonous and limited user experiences. It is with these observations in mind, among others, that various aspects of the present disclosure where developed.","Aspects of the present disclosure include a method for customizing a virtual event platform. The method includes receiving a template at a virtual event platform system, the template comprising code defining customizations for a virtual event platform. The method further includes parsing the template to identify template content. The method includes modifying functionality of the virtual event platform based on the template content to generate custom functionality for the virtual event platform.","In another aspect, a system for customizing a virtual event platform is disclosed. The system includes at least one processor. The system includes an application programming interface and a template application comprising modules executable by the processor. The modules of the template application include a template retrieval module to receive a template at a virtual event platform system and a template parser module to: parse the template to identify template content and modify functionality of the virtual event platform based on the template content to generate custom functionality for the virtual event platform.","In yet another aspect, a computer-readable medium encoded with a template application comprising modules executable by a processor is disclosed. The modules include a template retrieval module to receive a template at a virtual event platform system and a template parser module to: parse the template to identify template content and modify functionality of the virtual event platform based on the template content to generate custom functionality for the virtual event platform.","Various aspects of the present disclosure relate to systems to a virtual event platform and methods for customizing the virtual event platform (\u201cVEP\u201d) to integrate multimedia and\/or web related content and functionalities. In particular, methods and systems are described that provide customers, interested in creating customized virtual events, the ability to access data and functions within the VEP and use such access to integrate new content, such as interactive, multimedia, and\/or web related content. Customers may make such customizations to the VEP without requiring original VEP developers to continuously modify existing VEP code and\/or implement additional VEP code.","Generally speaking, a virtual event platform is a virtual framework, software architecture, environment, and\/or platform that facilitates communication, business development, and networking opportunities between businesses in a virtual environment. In particular, VEPs allow businesses and other entities to create privately-branded virtual events that showcase their products and services, and institutions. The virtual events simulate a physical presence in virtual places similar to the real world, such as trade shows, business conventions, conferences, sales meetings, etc. In various aspects, a VEP may offer the ability to create virtual booths, show floors\/rooms, custom navigation capabilities, webcasts, other communication functionalities, and the like, all of which may be used to create virtual trade shows, virtual business conventions, and\/or other virtual events. Typically, a VEP uses a communication network, such as the Internet, to connect the virtual events to large audiences. For example, an automotive company may develop a virtual event accessible over the Internet that highlights various automobiles, the automotive industry, and the company's automotive products.","Often, when a virtual event is developed for a particular customer, such as a corporate entity, it is implemented by a sophisticated development team based on content received from the customer. The content is provided in a particular format, or in compliance with a particular standard enabling the development team to integrate the content within the VEP. Additionally, many VEP developers require the content be in a static format, since static content may be easier to integrate into an existing VEP. For example, a large corporation may provide developers with company logos, color templates, employee data, text, etc., in an XML format, all of which may be used by the developers in conjunction with the VEP to create a virtual event. Alternatively, the development team may implement additional VEP code and\/or alter existing VEP code to integrate the content received from the customer. Both of these types of development processes may be time consuming, and require constant communication between customers, the development team, and any other parties responsible for the content of the virtual event. Furthermore, any real-time changes made to an existing virtual event may be more difficult to manage and track, and may result in delay and confusion among users. Various aspects of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for allowing customers to provide interactive and dynamic content and customizations that may be integrated into an existing virtual event platform (VEP) without requiring the original developers of the VEP to continuously modify and\/or update the VEP code.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","108","102","108","102","108","102","108","102","108","102","108","112"]},"Each computing device - may communicate with a virtual event platform system (VEPS)  over a communication network . The communication network  can be the Internet, an Intranet, or another communication network. For example, the VEPS  and the computing devices - may communicate data over the communication network using a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d) and\/or another communication protocol. In another aspect, the client computing devices - may communicate with the VEPS  through separate communication networks. For example, some of the computing devices - may communicate with the VEPS  through the Internet, while other client computing devices may communicate with the VEPS  through a local area network.","In one example implementation, each computing device - represents a client customer of a VEPS provider requiring access to the various functionalities and data of a VEP for customization and virtual event generation. An administrator representing the customer uses, for example, the computing device  to generate a template request to transmit to the VEPS . The VEPS  transmits a template to display at the computing device  in response to the template request. The administrator then uses, for example, the keyboard associated with the computing device  to interact with the template to enter and define desired features, customizations, and\/or content. For example, the administrator may embed video content into the template. Once the administrator has defined such features, customizations, and\/or content, the administrator uses the input device of the computing device  to transmit the template to the VEPS .","The VEPS  is a virtual event platform system that provides a customer with the ability to generate customized virtual events by accessing and\/or modifying the existing functionalities of a VEP . In various embodiments, a customer uses templates to provide customization content, such as multimedia content, web content, and\/or other related content to the VEPS . Customization content may be any type of multimedia data, web data, image data, interactive data, and the like, capable of being incorporated into the VEP . For example, customization content may include: video, images, multimedia web pages, video games, applications, text, audio, etc. It is contemplated that any type of interactive content may be integrated into an existing VEP  through the VEPS .","The VEPS  executes a template application  that receives and processes the templates comprising the customer defined customizations, and uses the templates to modify the functionality of the VEP . The modified VEP  may subsequently be used to generate customized virtual events for the customer. For example, the VEPS  may receive interactive web videos from a corporate entity and integrate the interactive videos into the VEP  to generate interactive virtual events. In one aspect, the VEPS  allows customers to provide templates that access and modify existing functionality of the VEP  in real-time.","While  illustrates one example computing environment for implementing aspects of the present disclosure, it is contemplated that the VEPS  and its various software and\/or hardware components may be implemented in other computing environments. For example, the VEPS  may be implemented in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing is a type of computing in which dynamically scalable and typically virtualized resources are provided as services via the Internet. As a result, users need not, and typically do not, possess knowledge of, expertise in, or control over the technology and\/or infrastructure implemented in the cloud. Accordingly, the various aspects and functionalities of the VEPS  and the VEP  may be provided and\/or accessed through a cloud computing environment. For example, the VEPS  and the VEP  may be the equivalent of a cloud computing provider, delivering access to its various functionalities (e.g., virtual events) and data to users over the internet, while such functionalities and data are stored on servers at a remote location. Moreover, any virtual events generated by the VEPS  and\/or the VEP  may be implemented, hosted, and\/or executed in clouds and\/or within a cloud computing environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["112","112","122","116","114"]},"The VEP  is a virtual event platform that allows for dynamic, real-time, customization of the VEP  components, data, and functionalities to generate new and\/or modified virtual events. For example, the VEP  may include functionality related to: virtual booths; text and video chat; video conferencing; message forums; surveys; virtual event management; web pages; group chat with moderated, scheduled, private and public formats and audio and\/or video webcasts. Other functionalities may also be included. While the VEPS  depicted in  includes a VEP , in some embodiments, it is contemplated that the VEPS  may not include the VEP  within the system, and rather, communicates with an external VEP.","According to one aspect of the present disclosure, the VEPS  may include one or more templates. A template represents a standardized file type used by computer software as a pre-formatted example on which to base other files, especially documents. A template may also involve any processing element that can be combined with a data model and processed by a template engine to produce a result document. Templates may be created by including custom and\/or system tags, which are references to subroutines, data, and processor directives in HTML. Templates may include other web-related content using other web protocols such as XML, flash, javascript, or any other web technology. In yet another aspect, the templates may include different types of content and functionality commonly found in interactive media and websites such as video media, interactive media, audio media, image media, multimedia, interactive game media, game media, and any other web publishable media.","The VEPS  may include a plurality of pre-stored templates comprising HTML formatting code, text, fields, and other formulas that correspond to the available features and options in the VEP . The templates may be accessed by users at the computing devices -. Each template may access and expose data and\/or replacement variables from databases (or not) which may include fields, forms, views, text, formulas, and profiles that enable customization of the standard features and options of the VEP . For example, the templates may be used in conjunction with virtual booth building functionality in the VEP  to create customized virtual booths. In one aspect, the templates can be used to implement custom spaces, custom graphics, custom behaviors, and custom renderings of standard items within the VEP . Alternatively, the templates may allow for easy integration with third party technologies and reporting, such as back-end reporting.","In yet another aspect, templates may be used to access existing functionality and content offered by the VEP . The templates may be used to customize existing VEP  functionality, or to create new functionality and customization content. The templates may be stored in a database . According to one aspect, database  is a general repository of data including but not limited to template data, customized content data, and other data relating to customizing an existing virtual event platform. Besides memory, the database  may include memory and one or more processors or processing systems to receive, process, query and transmit communications and store and retrieve data. In another aspect, the database  may be a database server.","The VEPS  may include an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d)  to facilitate interaction between the templates and the VEP . Generally speaking, an API is an interface implemented in software code that defines a particular set of rules and specifications that software programs can follow to communicate with other, different, software programs. Alternatively, the API  may be defined as a description of the way one piece of software asks another program to perform a service. In one aspect, the API  may be a client-side API. The API  may be accessed through function calls in a template, which allows communication with the VEP  and the API . In another aspect, the API  provides access to the underlying functionality of the VEP  without revealing internal proprietary details of the VEP .","As an example, the API  may be a collection of commands or functions which enable a user access to functions and services of the VEP . A user may obtain access to the VEP  by calling the API  functions or commands in a computer source code, computer program, markup text, or text file. In one aspect, a user can make API  function calls in a one or more of the templates . For example, the API  function calls may be made via javascript and\/or ajax calls from user-supplied code in a template. The VEP  modules and\/or functions a user may access through API  function calls may include: message board system, user and profile information, user preferences system, webcast system, video chat, blog system, banner advertising system, online statistical system, dashboard system, chat room system, administrative information system, and user authorization system. Other modules and functionalities may also be accessed within the VEP  using the API  function calls and it is contemplated that any functionality provided by the VEP  may be accessed using API  function calls. In another aspect, a user may make API  function calls within a template to integrate external software components and\/or systems with existing functionality of the VEP .","A template application , executable by the processor , may be used to provide a customer access to one or more of the templates . For example, the template application  may transmit or otherwise provide the computing devices - access to a template. Subsequently, the customer may implement additional functionality, or access the VEP  functionality and content through the template using HTML, or some other web-based coding technology. The template application  processes the additional functionality and\/or content to customize the VEP .","The VEPS  may include a computer readable media (\u201cCRM\u201d)  configured with and\/or storing executable instructions to implement the template application . The CRM  may include computer storage media, communication media, and\/or another available medium that can be accessed by the processor . By way of example and not limitation, computer storage media includes memory, volatile media, nonvolatile media, removable media, and\/or non-removable media implemented in a method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Communication media may embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data and include an information delivery media or system. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["116","302","112","102","108","112","114"]},"An API function call module  allows a user, at a client computing device, to access the API  to create custom spaces, functionality, and content within the VEP . The API function module  allows a user to define API function calls within a template to access the underlying data and functionality of the VEP  without revealing internal proprietary details of the VEP . For example, the VEP  may have pre-existing virtual booth functionality and standard virtual booth designs. A corporate user may define and\/or make one or more API functions calls within a template to access and customize the existing virtual booth functionality to include a new virtual booth features specifically catered to the corporate users business. In one aspect, any functionality in the VEP  that is accessible through the API may be customizable.","A template parser module  receives a completed template from a client computing device and processes the template and the template data to implement the user's customized functionality and content. The template parser module  processes the template to identify template content. Template content refers to any content added to the template by a user. For example, template content may be one or more template and\/or system variables comprising data and\/or customized content defined by a user. In one aspect, the template\/system variables are a set of dynamic named values that expose the current data and functionalities of a VEP; the variables may be accessed to customize, extend, and or modify the exposed data and functionalities of the VEP. In another aspect, the template content may be one or more API function calls that a user defined in a template that links to customized content. The template parser module  may process the template data and\/or API functions calls into the existing VEP functionality and content to create new customizations. For example, a customer may include an API function call that links a customer's existing business videos with existing VEP virtual booth functionalities in a template. The template parser module  will process the API function call to integrate the business video within the existing VEP functionality. Subsequently, a virtual booth event capable of displaying the custom business videos may be generated by the VEP. In one aspect, the template parser module  may process the template using mail merge. Mail merge involves a merge function describing the production of multiple documents from a single template form and a structured data source. For example, the template parser module  may parse the received template and replace any of the VEP  standard system tags found in the template with actual data and\/or data values from the VEP .","In another aspect, the template parser module  may process, any data parsed from the template, and any newly created functionality parsed from the template to create displayable content. Displayable content may be in the form of visual content and\/or interactive content, and may include video, audio, images, text, and the like. For example, displayable content may include HTML directives that were added in the template by a user. The content may be displayed at a user computing device or any other computing device and\/or networking device capable of accessing the VEP and\/or the VEPS. Such devices may include a computer via a web browser, a mobile computing device, and any other computing system with a display. Processing the template may include intermixing existing standard functionality and content of the VEP  with newly customized functionalities and content implemented in the template by a user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","102","112","112","102","112","404","112","116","406"]},"Thus, as described in various aspects and embodiments, systems and methods for customizing the functionalities and content of a VEP are disclosed. Information is received from a customer through a template. The template defines and\/or implements calls to an application programming interface, as well as system variables exposed by the existing virtual event platform, to define the customizations for the VEP.","The VEPS , VEP , API  and the like may be realized in hardware, software or a combination of hardware and software. The modules discussed herein may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the systems, modules, and methods described herein.","The description above includes example systems, methods, techniques, instruction sequences, and\/or computer program products that embody techniques of the present disclosure. However, it is understood that the described disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.","In the present disclosure, the methods disclosed may be implemented as sets of instructions or software readable by a device. Further, it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed are instances of example approaches. Based upon design preferences, it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the method can be rearranged while remaining within the disclosed subject matter. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order, and are not necessarily meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.","The described disclosure may be provided as a computer program product, or software, that may include a machine-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, which may be used to program a computer system (or other electronic devices) to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form (e.g., software, processing application) readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). The machine-readable medium may include, but is not limited to, magnetic storage medium (e.g., floppy diskette), optical storage medium (e.g., CD-ROM); magneto-optical storage medium, read only memory (ROM); random access memory (RAM); erasable programmable memory (e.g., EPROM and EEPROM); flash memory; or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.","It is believed that the present disclosure and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description, and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form, construction and arrangement of the components without departing from the disclosed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form described is merely explanatory, and it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.","While the present disclosure has been described with reference to various embodiments, it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to them. Many variations, modifications, additions, and improvements are possible. More generally, embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure have been described in the context of particular implementations. Functionality may be separated or combined in blocks differently in various embodiments of the disclosure or described with different terminology. These and other variations, modifications, additions, and improvements may fall within the scope of the disclosure as defined in the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["The foregoing and other objects, features, and advantages of the inventive concepts set forth herein will be apparent from the following description of particular embodiments of those inventive concepts, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters refer to the same parts throughout the different views. The drawings are not necessarily to scale; emphasis instead being placed on illustrating the principles of the inventive concepts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
