---
title: Systems and methods for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users
abstract: Systems and methods for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users are disclosed herein. According to an aspect, a method may include determining a position of an electronic device. The method may also include determining a registration status associated with the electronic device. Further, the method may include communicating a portion of an electronic document to the electronic device based on the position and the registration status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013267&OS=09013267&RS=09013267
owner: Rhonda Enterprises, LLC
number: 09013267
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110823
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61\/376,321, filed Aug. 24, 2010, the content of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing electronic documents to electronic device users.","Electronic books, or e-books, are text and image-based publications in digital form produced on, published by, and readable on computers or other electronic devices. E-books are often read on dedicated hardware devices, such as e-book readers or e-book devices. Personal computers, mobile devices, such as smart phones and tablet computers, and other suitable devices may also be used for reading e-books.","Readers of printed books, magazines, newspapers, or other print material are accustomed to the practice of sharing or loaning such reading material to their friends, family, and colleagues. Many e-readers and other electronic devices are not configured to or capable of easily allowing a user to share his or her electronic documents with other electronic device users. Accordingly, it is desirable to provide techniques for improving users' ability to share electronic document content with other electronic device users.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Disclosed herein are systems and methods for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users. According to an aspect, a method includes determining a position of an electronic device. For example, an e-book reader may determine that another e-book reader is positioned within a predetermined distance. The method also includes determining a registration status associated with the electronic device. For example, the e-book reader may determine whether the other e-book reader is registered with a social network service. Further, the method includes communicating a portion of an electronic document to the electronic device based on the position and the registration status. For example, the e-book reader may communicate a selected portion of an e-book to the other e-book reader. The e-book portion may only be communicated if the other e-book reader is positioned within the predetermined distance and a user of the other e-book reader is registered with the social network service.","According to another aspect, a method may include receiving a portion of an electronic document. For example, an e-book reader may receive a portion of an e-book from another e-book reader for purpose of loan. The method also includes receiving information restricting use of the portion of the electronic document based on a position of the first electronic device with respect to a position of a second electronic device. For example, the e-book reader may present the e-book portion only when within a predetermined distance of the loaning e-book reader. Further, the method includes controlling use of the portion of the electronic document based on the received information. The e-book reader may control presentation of the e-book portion based on the information restricting the use.","According to another aspect, a method includes receiving from a first electronic device a user identifier, identification of an electronic document, and an indicator that indicates that a portion of the electronic document has been communicated to a second electronic device associated with the user identifier. For example, an e-book reader may communicate such information to an online retailer server via a network. The method also includes applying a referral credit to an account associated with the first electronic device based on the indicator. For example, the online retailer server may apply a referral credit to a retail account of a user of the e-book reader.","According to yet another aspect, a method includes receiving from a first electronic device an identifier associated with a second electronic device. For example, a server may receive such an identifier from an e-book reader. The method also includes determining that the first electronic device and the second electronic device are within a predetermined distance of one another. For example, the server may receive position coordinates of the e-book reader and another e-book reader for determining whether the e-book readers are within a predetermined distance of one another. The method also includes communicating a portion of an electronic document to the second electronic device in response to determining that the first electronic device and the second electronic device are within the predetermined distance of one another.","The present disclosure is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However, the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather, the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways, to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document, in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover, although the term \u201cstep\u201d may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed, the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.","Embodiments of the present disclosure enable an electronic device, such as an e-book reader, to determine a position of another electronic device, to determine a registration status associated with the other electronic device, and to communicate a portion or all of an electronic document to the other electronic device based on the position and the registration status. For example, an e-book reader may be displaying a page of an electronic document, such as an e-book, to its user. The user may interface with the e-book reader to initiate loaning or sharing the electronic document with an e-book reader of another user. In response to this user interface, the e-book reader may attempt to establish a wireless communication connection with the other e-book reader if a wireless communication connection is not already established. The e-book reader may then determine whether the other e-book reader is within a predetermined distance. For example, the e-book reader may estimate a distance between the two e-book readers based on a signal strength of the wireless communication connection. In addition, the e-book reader may determine, for example, whether a user identifier associated with the other e-book reader is registered with either a social network or an electronic document provider. For example, the e-book reader may receive a username and password from the other e-book reader for use in verifying with a remote server that the other e-book reader is registered with either the social network or the electronic document provider. In response to verifying registration and that the other e-book reader is within the predetermined distance, the e-book reader may wirelessly communicate a portion or all of the e-book to the other electronic device. For example, the e-book reader may communicate a copy of the page that is currently being displayed by use of a wireless communication connection with the other e-book reader. The recipient e-book reader may be restricted to presenting the page to the user only when the e-book reader is within the predetermined distance. In this way, a portion of the e-book may be shared with another user with a restriction being that the portion may only be presented while the recipient e-book reader is within a predetermined distance of the sender e-book reader.","As referred to herein, the term \u201celectronic device\u201d should be broadly construed. It can include any type of device capable of presenting an electronic document to a user. For example, the electronic device may be an e-book reader configured to present an e-book to a user. Example e-book readers include, but are not limited to, the KINDLE\u00ae and NOOK\u00ae e-book readers. In another example, an electronic device may be a mobile device such as, for example, but not limited to, a smart phone, a cell phone, a pager, a personal digital assistant (PDA, e.g., with GPRS NIC), a mobile computer with a smart phone client, or the like. An electronic device can also include any type of conventional computer, for example, a desktop computer or a laptop computer. A typical mobile device is a wireless data access-enabled device (e.g., an iPHONE\u00ae smart phone, a BLACKBERRY\u00ae smart phone, a NEXUS ONE\u2122 smart phone, an iPAD\u00ae device, or the like) that is capable of sending and receiving data in a wireless manner using protocols like the Internet Protocol, or IP, and the wireless application protocol, or WAP. This allows users to access information via wireless devices, such as smart phones, mobile phones, pagers, two-way radios, communicators, and the like. Wireless data access is supported by many wireless networks, including, but not limited to, CDPD, CDMA, GSM, PDC, PHS, TDMA, FLEX, ReFLEX, iDEN, TETRA, DECT, DataTAC, Mobitex, EDGE and other 2G, 3G, 4G and LTE technologies, and it operates with many handheld device operating systems, such as PalmOS, EPOC, Windows CE, FLEXOS, OS\/9, JavaOS, iOS and Android. Typically, these devices use graphical displays and can access the Internet (or other communications network) on so-called mini- or micro-browsers, which are web browsers with small file sizes that can accommodate the reduced memory constraints of mobile wireless devices. In a representative embodiment, the mobile device is a cellular telephone or smart phone that operates over GPRS (General Packet Radio Services), which is a data technology for GSM networks. In addition to a conventional voice communication, a given mobile device can communicate with another such device via many different types of message transfer techniques, including SMS (short message service), enhanced SMS (EMS), multi-media message (MMS), email WAP, paging, or other known or later-developed wireless data formats. Although many of the examples provided herein are implemented on an e-book reader, the examples may similarly be implemented on any suitable electronic device, such as a computer or smart phone.","As referred to herein, the term \u201celectronic document\u201d should be broadly construed. Example electronic documents can be presented and stored in the form of book pages that may be browsed using an electronic device such as, for example, an e-book reader or tablet computer. An electronic document may be stored in any suitable format, such as, but not limited to, portable document format (PDF), hypertext markup language (HTML), extensible markup language (XML), EPUB, or any suitable e-book or word processing format. It is also noted that an e-book is an example of an electronic document. Further, it is noted that when the term \u201celectronic document\u201d is recited herein, the term may also be substituted with the term \u201ce-book\u201d or any other electronic document example disclosed herein, and vice versa.","As referred to herein, a \u201cuser interface\u201d is generally a system by which users interact with an electronic device. An interface can include an input for allowing users to manipulate an electronic device, and can include an output for allowing the system to present information (e.g., electronic text) and\/or data, indicate the effects of the user's manipulation, etc. An example of an interface on an electronic device includes a graphical user interface (GUI) that allows users to interact with programs in more ways than typing. A GUI typically can offer display objects, and visual indicators, as opposed to text-based interfaces, typed command labels or text navigation to represent information and actions available to a user. For example, an interface can be a display window or display object, which is selectable by a user of a mobile device for interaction. The display object can be displayed on a display screen of an electronic device and can be selected by, and interacted with by, a user using the interface. In an example, the display of the electronic device can be a touch screen, which can display the display icon. The user can depress the area of the display screen at which the display icon is displayed for selecting the display icon. In another example, the user can use any other suitable interface of a mobile device, such as a keypad, to select the display icon or display object. For example, the user can use a track ball or arrow keys for moving a cursor to highlight and select the display object.","Operating environments in which embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented are also well-known. In a representative embodiment, a mobile electronic device, such as an e-book reader, is connectable (for example, via WAP) to a transmission functionality that varies depending on implementation. Thus, for example, where the operating environment is a wide area wireless network (e.g., a 2.5G network, a 3G network, or a 4G network), the transmission functionality comprises one or more components such as a mobile switching center (MSC) (an enhanced ISDN switch that is responsible for call handling of mobile subscribers), a visitor location register (VLR) (an intelligent database that stores on a temporary basis data required to handle calls set up or received by mobile devices registered with the VLR), a home location register (HLR) (an intelligent database responsible for management of each subscriber's records), one or more base stations (which provide radio coverage within a cell), a base station controller (BSC) (a switch that acts as a local concentrator of traffic and provides local switching to effect handover between base stations), and a packet control unit (PCU) (a device that separates data traffic coming from a mobile device). The HLR also controls certain services associated with incoming calls. Of course, embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure may be implemented in other and next-generation mobile networks and devices as well. The mobile device is the physical equipment used by the end user, typically a subscriber to the wireless network. Typically, a mobile device is a 2.5G-compliant device, 3G-compliant device, or 4G-compliant device that includes a subscriber identity module (SIM), which is a smart card that carries subscriber-specific information, mobile equipment (e.g., radio and associated signal processing devices), a user interface (or a man-machine interface (MMI)), and one or more interfaces to external devices (e.g., computers, PDAs, and the like). The electronic device may also include a memory or data store.","The presently disclosed subject matter is now described in more detail. For example,  illustrates a schematic diagram of a system  for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , the system  includes an electronic device  configured to loan all or a portion of an electronic document to another electronic device . In this example, electronic devices  and  are e-book readers, but may alternatively be any other suitable electronic device configured to present an electronic document to a user and to communicate with another electronic device. A user of the electronic device  may interact with a user interface  to select an e-book  and the electronic device  as an intended recipient of the e-book . In response to the selection, an electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine a position of the electronic device . For example, the electronic document manager  may determine whether the electronic device  is positioned within a predetermined distance of the electronic device . Alternatively, the electronic device  may check if device  is within a predetermined distance before allowing the user of device  to select device  as an intended recipient. Further, in response to the selection, the electronic document manager  may determine a registration status associated with the electronic device . For example, the electronic document manager  may determine whether a user identifier associated with the electronic device  is registered with one or both of a social network and an electronic document provider. In response to determining that the position of the electronic device  and the registration status meet predetermined criteria, the electronic document manager  may control a communications interface, such as a network interface , to communicate all or a portion of the e-book  to the electronic device  via one or more networks . The device  may also provide information applying restrictions on the use of the loaned portion of the e-book  by the device  using, for example, Digital Rights Management (DRM) methods. In this way, a user of the electronic device  may share content of the e-book  or any other electronic document with another electronic device. Loan of an electronic document may be restricted based on a position of the recipient electronic device and a registration status with a social network or an electronic document provider.","In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure,  illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users. The method of  is described with respect to the example system  shown in , although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. Various steps of  may be implemented entirely, or in part, by an electronic document manager  residing on the electronic device  shown in . Various other steps of  may be implemented entirely, or in part, by the electronic document manager  residing on the electronic device . The electronic document managers  may each be implemented by software, hardware, firmware, or combinations thereof.","Referring to , the method includes initiating an electronic document sharing application for selecting an electronic device and an e-book (step ). For example, the application (often referred to as an \u201capp\u201d) may reside on the electronic device  and may be used to allow the user to select an e-book, such as the e-book , to be shared with the electronic device . The application may reside on the electronic device  and be a part of the electronic document manager . The user may, for example, input commands into the user interface  for selecting the e-book  and for identifying the electronic device  and\/or a user associated with the electronic device . The application may also be an e-book reader application, and the user of device  may choose to share a document that has already been selected for reading.","The method of  includes determining a position of an electronic device (step ). For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine a position of the electronic device  with respect to the electronic device . In an embodiment, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine whether the electronic device  is within a predetermined distance from the electronic device . Communication of the selected electronic document, or a portion thereof, may be restricted to only those electronic devices that are within the predetermined distance.","In an embodiment, a position of another electronic device may be determined based on a wireless communication with the other electronic device. If wireless communication is established or the electronic devices are capable of wireless communication (e.g., within range of one another), it may be determined that the other electronic device is within the predetermined distance, and thus the other electronic device is a candidate for sharing an electronic document. For example, referring to , the electronic devices  and  may be in wireless communication by use of a suitable technique such as, but not limited to, a wireless local area network (WLAN) or wireless personal area network (WPAN) technology. The electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may be configured to monitor one or more wireless communication components of the electronic device  for determining whether the electronic device  is in wireless communication with the electronic device . The electronic document manager  may determine that the electronic device  is positioned within the predetermined distance of the electronic device .","In another embodiment, it may be determined that another electronic device is within a predetermined distance if the other electronic device is detectable over a wireless communication technology such as, but not limited to, BLUETOOTH\u00ae, WI-FI\u00ae, and the like. For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may be configured to monitor one or more wireless communication components of the electronic device  for determining whether the electronic device  is detectable over a wireless communication technology. The electronic device manager  may determine that the electronic device  is within the predetermined distance in response to determining that the electronic device  is detectable over the wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies may have a limited range, thus it can be assumed that the other electronic device is nearby or within the predetermined distance if the other electronic device is detectable by such techniques.","In another embodiment, a position of another electronic device may be determined based on a signal quality of a wireless communication connection between electronic devices. For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may be configured to monitor one or more wireless communication components of the electronic device  for determining whether a signal quality of a wireless communication connection between the electronic device  and the electronic device  is greater than a predetermined signal quality level. The signal quality may be, for example, but not limited to, a signal strength quality of communications between the electronic device  and the electronic device . The signal strength may be determined based on, for example, a received signal strength indicator (RSSI), a receive power level, a link quality indicator (LQ), a signal to noise ratio (SNR), a packet reception rate (PRR), a bit error rate (BER), or the like. The electronic document manager  may use the RSSI to determine a distance between the electronic devices  and . If the RSSI is above a predetermined level, it may be determined that the other electronic device is a candidate for receipt of a selected electronic document. Otherwise, it may be determined that the other electronic device is not sufficiently close to qualify as a candidate for receipt of the selected electronic document. The electronic document manager  may determine that the electronic device  is within the predetermined distance in response to determining that the signal quality is greater than the predetermined signal quality level.","In yet another example, a suitable wireless technology, such as IEEE 802.15.4a, which includes a ranging protocol, may be used to determine a distance between electronic devices. The electronic document manager  may use the determined distance to determine whether the electronic devices are positioned less than a predetermined distance apart. In another embodiment, other wireless technologies, such as near-field communication (NFC), or sonic or ultrasonic ranging, may be used to determine the relative positions of electronic devices using methods such as time-of-flight, time-of-arrival, time-difference-of-arrival, and the like.","In another embodiment, a position of another electronic device may be determined based on position coordinates of electronic devices. For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may be configured to monitor one or more wireless communication components of the electronic device  for determining a position coordinate of the electronic device . The position coordinate may be one or more global positioning system (GPS) coordinates that are reported to the electronic document manager  by a GPS-enabled component residing on the electronic device . In another embodiment, the position coordinate may be relative to one or more wireless devices that may act as beacons, such as WI-FI\u00ae, Access Points. The electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may also be configured to determine a GPS coordinate of another electronic device, such as the electronic device . In an example, electronic devices, such as electronic devices  and , may report their position coordinates to a server, such as an electronic document server , via a suitable communications network, such as the network . In this example, the server  may include an electronic document coordinator  configured to receive position coordinates from electronic devices. The electronic document coordinator  may determine the electronic devices that are co-located or within a predetermined distance of one another based on the received position coordinates by use of a suitable technique. Further, the electronic document coordinator  may communicate information to the electronic devices to identify the other electronic devices that are in proximity. The recipient electronic devices, such as the electronic device , may use the information to determine whether another electronic device, such as the electronic device , is located within the predetermined distance to be a candidate for receipt of a selected electronic document. The electronic device  may also request that the server  report such position information about the electronic device .","In another example of using position coordinates to determine whether another electronic device is located within a predetermined position, the electronic device  may receive a position coordinate of the electronic device  by direct communication from the electronic device . For example, the electronic device  may use a peer-to-peer communication technology for requesting that the electronic device  communicate GPS coordinates of the electronic device . The electronic document manager  may manage the request of the information. In response to the request, the electronic device  may determine its present position coordinate and may communicate the position coordinate to the electronic device . In another example, position coordinates may be communicated between electronic devices via multicast or flooding communication techniques. Electronic devices may use the determined position coordinates to determine whether other electronic devices are within the predetermined distance and are thus candidates for receipt of a selected electronic document.","The method of  includes determining a registration status associated with the electronic device (step ). For example, the electronic device  may store in a memory  a user identifier associated with the electronic device . The user identifier may be any suitable information for identifying the electronic device  such as, but not limited to, a username and password associated with the electronic device . In an example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine whether the user identifier is registered with one or both of a social network and an electronic document provider, such as an electronic retailer. In response to determining that the user identifier is registered, the electronic device  can be a candidate for receipt of the selected electronic document.","In an example of determining whether a user identifier is registered with a social network, the electronic device  may communicate a user identifier to a social network server  for verifying registration of the user identifier with the social network. For example, the user identifier may include, but is not limited to, a username and password in a hashed or encrypted form, or a session key, other token, or type of identifier for a user of the electronic device . The social network server  may be a server configured to manage social network accounts, such as, for example, a FACEBOOK\u00ae social network account. The electronic document manager  may retrieve the user identifier stored in the memory , and may control the network interface  to communicate the user identifier to the social network server  along with a request for verifying registration of the user identifier. The user identifier and request may be communicated to the social network server  via the network  or any suitable communication technique. The social network server  may receive the user identifier and request via its network interface . Subsequently and responsive to the request for verifying the user identifier, a registration verification module  may check account records stored in memory  of social network server  to determine whether a record matches the user identifier for verifying registration. The registration verification module  may subsequently generate a message indicating whether the user identifier is registered, and may communicate the message to the electronic device  by control of the network interface  of the server . The electronic document manager  may access the message to determine whether the user identifier is registered. In response to determining that the user identifier is registered, the electronic device  can be a candidate for receipt of the selected electronic document. The user identifier or various authorization information may have been received from the electronic device .","In an example of determining whether a user identifier is registered with an electronic retailer, the electronic device  may communicate a user identifier to the electronic document server  for verifying registration of the user identifier with an electronic document provider. The electronic document server  may be a server configured to manage customer accounts, such as, for example, an AMAZON\u00ae customer account, a BARNES AND NOBLE\u00ae customer account, or an APPLE iBOOKS\u00ae customer account. The electronic document manager  of the server  may retrieve the user identifier stored in the memory , and may control the network interface  to communicate the user identifier to the electronic document server  along with a request for verifying registration of the user identifier. The user identifier and request may be communicated to the electronic document server  via the network  or any suitable communication technique. The electronic document server  may receive the user identifier and request via its network interface . Subsequently and responsive to the request for verifying the user identifier, the registration verification module  of the electronic document server  may check account records stored in its memory  to determine whether a record matches the user identifier for verifying registration. The registration verification module  may subsequently generate a message indicating whether the user identifier is registered, and may communicate the message to the electronic device  by control of the network interface  of the server . The electronic document manager  may access the message to determine whether the user identifier is registered. In response to determining that the user identifier is registered, the electronic device  can be a candidate for receipt of the selected electronic document.","In another example, a social network service or electronic document provider may provide an application programming interface (API) for use by an electronic device in accessing their services. An example of an electronic document provider's API is FACEBOOK\u00ae Connect. The API may be configured to accept a user's login credentials to authenticate and authorize an application using that API. The API may also assign a temporary session key to the application. The application may reside on an electronic device and may use the temporary session key to access user-specific data via the API for performing actions on the user's behalf. In this way, the electronic device, such as the electronic device , may verify registration of a user identifier.","The method of  includes communicating a portion of an electronic document to the electronic device based on the position and the registration status (step ). For example, an electronic device may communicate a portion of an electronic document to another electronic device if the other electronic device is positioned within a predetermined distance and a user identifier of the other electronic device is registered with a social network or an electronic document provider. Referring to the example of , the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine whether the electronic device  is positioned within a predetermined distance of the electronic device , and whether a user identifier associated with the electronic device  is registered with the electronic document server  or the social network server . In response to determining that the electronic device  meets these criteria, the electronic document manager  may communicate all or a portion of a selected electronic document, such as the e-book , to the electronic device .","In an example, the portion of the electronic document communicated to the other electronic device may be identified automatically or based on user input. For example, a portion of an e-book may be automatically identified based on a page that is currently being displayed to a user. The portion of the electronic document or e-book may also be determined based on other information such as social network information and information about the registration status of the users with the electronic document provider. In this example, a copy of the currently-displayed page may be communicated to the other electronic device. In this example, if the user changes the currently displayed page, a different portion of the e-book based on the newly displayed page may be automatically communicated to the other electronic device. In another example, a user may input an identifier for a page or other portion of an e-book, and the identified page or other portion may be communicated to the other electronic device. Example portions of an electronic document that may be identified for communication to another electronic device include, but are not limited to, one or more pages, one or more chapters, one or more sentences, one or more images, the like, and combinations thereof. The one or more pages, chapters, sentences or images may be determined based on the user's currently displayed page, predetermined selections by the author, editor, publisher or readers of the e-book, or the like.","The method of  includes communicating information restricting use of the portion of the electronic document (step ). For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may control the network interface  to communicate to the electronic device  information on restricting use of the communicated portion of the e-book . The information may restrict use of the portion of the electronic document based on a position of the other electronic device. For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may control the user interface  to restrict use of a received portion of the e-book  based on a position of the electronic device . In an example, presentation of the electronic document portion may be restricted to times when the electronic device  is positioned within a predetermined distance of the electronic device . The electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine its position, a position of the electronic device , and whether the devices are positioned within a predetermined position of one another in accordance with any of the examples disclosed herein.","In another example, use of the portion of the electronic document may be restricted based on time. For example, the electronic document manager  may only present or otherwise use the electronic document portion for a predetermined time period. In a particular example, use of the portion may only be allowed for a time period of 24 hours after its receipt at the electronic device . In yet another example, the restrictions may apply to the user of device , such that the loaned document or the loaned portion of the document are not available to the user of device  while it is being used by user of the device . In this example, the device  may enable the user to revoke the shared document when needed, such as by interacting with the UI . In one embodiment, use of the portion of the electronic document may be restricted based on information about the social network relationship between the users of devices  and . For instance, the restrictions may be varied based on criteria such as the type of relationship, how closely the users are related in the social network, how well-acquainted the users are, how long the users have known each other, how long the users have been connected in the social network, how often they have previously shared portions of documents or other content, how often they communicate, and so on. In another embodiment, the portion of the electronic document may be restricted based on the registration status of one or both users with the electronic document provider. For instance, restrictions may be varied based on the type of accounts the users have, such as whether the users have premium accounts; the number and metadata of documents or other items the users have either previously purchased from the provider, consumed, recommended, reviewed or shared; other metadata about the user accounts; and the like.","The method of  includes receiving the portion of the electronic document and information restricting use (step ). For example, an e-book portion  of the e-book  may be received from the electronic device  via the network . The electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may store the e-book portion  in the memory . In addition, information restricting use of the e-book portion  may be received at the electronic device  and stored in the memory .","The method of  includes controlling use of the portion of the electronic document based on the received information (step ). For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may access the use restriction information stored in the memory  for controlling display of the e-book portion . For example,  illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for controlling use of a portion of an electronic document in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to , the electronic document manager  may determine whether the electronic devices  and  are positioned within a predetermined distance of each other (step ). In response to determining that the devices  and  are within the predetermined distance, presentation of the e-book portion  may be allowed (step ). In response to determining that the electronic devices  and  are positioned further than the predetermined distance from each other, the electronic document manager  may disallow presentation of the e-book portion  (step ). The electronic device  may determine its position with respect to the electronic device  in accordance with any of the examples disclosed herein that the electronic device  uses for determining positioning of electronic devices. The e-book portion  may be presented via a display of the electronic device .","In an embodiment, all or a portion of an electronic document may be communicated from an electronic device to another electronic device through a server. For example, the electronic device  may communicate the e-book portion  to the server  for delivery to the electronic device . The server  may receive an encryption key from the electronic device  for use in communicating the e-book portion  to the electronic device . In another embodiment, the server  may receive information regarding the identification of the document and the portion to be shared from device , and the server  may generate the portion of the document from a copy stored in its own document database, such as memory  of the server  or another database, and may communicate it to device . The server may encrypt, or apply DRM restrictions to, the portion of the document before communicating it to device , and may communicate the decryption key thereto. In another embodiment, the server  may instead receive all the relevant information from one or both of devices  and , such as the information about the user identification information, registration status, social network relationship and device positions, and may determine the portion of the document to be shared, and communicate the portion to the device .","In an embodiment, a referral credit from an electronic retailer may be applied based on communication of all or a portion of an electronic document to another electronic device. For example, an electronic retailer may operate the electronic document server . The electronic device  may communicate to the electronic device  a portion of an electronic document in accordance with one of the examples disclosed herein. Either the electronic device  or the electronic device  may report information to the server  for indicating the communication of the electronic document portion and for identifying a user associated with the electronic device . In response to receipt of the report, the electronic document server  may apply a referral credit to the identified user. In another example, the referral credit may only be applied in response to a purchase of the electronic document from the electronic retailer. Such a purchase may be made through the server . For example, the electronic device  may communicate with the server  to conduct a transaction for purchase of the electronic document .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","118","116","118"]},"Referring to , the method includes receiving from an electronic device a user identifier, identification of an electronic document, and an indicator that a portion of the electronic document has been communicated to another electronic device associated with the user identifier (step ). For example, the electronic device  may have communicated the e-book portion  to the electronic device . In response to receipt of the e-book portion , the electronic document manager  may control the communication of a user identifier associated with the electronic device , identification of the e-book , and an indicator that the e-book portion  has been communicated to the electronic device . The information may be communicated by the network interface  via the network .","The method of  includes applying a referral credit to an account associated with the electronic device that sent the electronic document portion based on the indicator (step ). For example, the electronic document coordinator  may control one or more components of the server  for applying a credit to an account of a user associated with the electronic device . The credit may be used when the user of the electronic device  purchases content through the electronic retailer. In another example, the referral credit may be applied when a user of the electronic device  purchases a copy of the e-book .","In another embodiment, a portion of the electronic document communicated to another electronic device may be based on a social network relation between user identifiers of electronic devices. For example, a user of the electronic device  and a user of the electronic device  may be friends via a social network, such as a social network managed by the social network server , which may provide an indication of the relation to one or both of the electronic devices  and . The particular portion of the electronic document communicated to the electronic device  may be determined based on the relation. For example, the portion may be larger in size if the users are friends in the social network. Further, use of the electronic document portion may be restricted based on the social network relation. For example, the amount of time that the recipient is allowed to present the portion may be based on the relation. The portion of the electronic document and the use restrictions information may also be determined based on other information about the social network relationship between the users, such as the type of relationship, how closely the users are related in the social network, how well-acquainted the users are, how long the users have known each other, how long the users have been connected in the social network, how often they have previously shared portions of documents or other content, how often they communicate, and so on.","In another embodiment, one or more bookmarks may be communicated to another electronic device for identifying one or more positions within a communicated portion of an electronic document. For example, a user of the electronic device  may interact with the user interface  for bookmarking or otherwise identifying one or more parts of the e-book . The bookmarks may be communicated to the electronic device  along with the e-book portion . During presentation of the e-book portion , the bookmarks may be displayed for indicating particular parts of the e-book portion .","In another embodiment, presentation of an electronic document may be allowed in response to registration of a social network or an electronic retailer. For example, the electronic device  may receive the e-book portion , or information identifying the portion. The electronic document manager  may indicate that presentation of the e-book portion  is not allowed without registration. Particularly, in this example, presentation of the e-book portion  may not be allowed unless the user of the electronic device  is registered with one or both of a social network or an electronic retailer. The user may subsequently be presented with information on registering, such as via a website. The user may interact with the user interface  of the electronic device  for accessing the website and registering with the social network or the electronic retailer. In response to registration, the e-book portion  may be accessed and presented to the user via the user interface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","118","116","118"]},"Referring to , the method includes receiving from a first electronic device an identifier associated with a second electronic device (step ). For example, the electronic device  may communicate to the server  an identifier of the second electronic device . In addition, the electronic device  may communicate to the server  a portion of an electronic document or an identifier of the portion of the electronic document. The electronic device  may indicate that the server  is to communicate the portion of the electronic document to the electronic device .","The method of  includes determining that the first electronic device and the second electronic device are within a predetermined distance of one another (step ). For example, the electronic document coordinator  of the server  may determine whether the first and second electronic devices  and  are positioned within a predetermined distance of one another. In response to determining that the electronic devices  and  are not positioned within the predetermined distance, communication of the electronic document portion is to be disallowed by the electronic document coordinator . In response to determining that the electronic devices  and  are positioned within the predetermined distance, the electronic document coordinator  may initiate and manage communication of the electronic document portion to the electronic device .","The method of  includes communicating a portion of the electronic document to the second electronic device in response to determining that the first electronic device and the second electronic device are within the predetermined distance of one another (step ). Continuing the aforementioned example, the electronic document coordinator  may control the network interface  to communicate the electronic document portion to the electronic device  in response to determining that the electronic devices  and  are positioned within the predetermined distance. In an example, the electronic document portion, such as the e-book portion , may be communicated from the electronic device  to the server  for forwarding to the electronic device . In another example, the server  may have a copy of the e-book  stored in the memory  or in another database, and the electronic document coordinator  may use the stored copy for forwarding a portion thereof to the electronic device .","In an embodiment, the electronic document coordinator  may verify that an identifier associated with the electronic device  is registered with a social network or an electronic retailer. In an example, the electronic document coordinator  may check records stored in the memory  for verifying whether an identifier of the electronic device  is associated with an electronic retailer as with some of the examples disclosed herein. In another example, the electronic document coordinator  may query the social network server  for verifying whether an identifier of the electronic device  is associated with a social network as with some of the examples disclosed herein.","In an embodiment, subsequent to communicating the electronic document portion to an electronic device, such as the electronic device , the electronic device may conduct a transaction with the server  or another server for purchase of the electronic document. In response to the purchase transaction, the server  may apply a referral credit to a user identifier associated with the electronic device .","In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure,  illustrate a flow chart of an exemplary method for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users. The method of  is described with respect to the example system  shown in , although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. Various steps of  may be implemented entirely, or in part, by the electronic document manager  residing on the electronic device  shown in . The electronic document manager  may each be implemented by software, hardware, firmware, or combinations thereof.","Referring to , the method includes opening an electronic document for reading (step ). For example, a user of the electronic device  may input commands into the user interface  for opening the e-book  and for displaying the e-book .","The method of  includes detecting an electronic device in proximity (step ). For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine that the electronic device  is positioned within a predetermined distance in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. In this case, the electronic device  may be determined to be a candidate for receipt of all or a portion of the e-book .","The method of  includes determining whether a user of the detected electronic device is registered with a social network service also used by a user of the electronic device that opened the electronic document (step ). The electronic device that opened the electronic document may query a social network service to determine whether a relationship exists between the first user and the second user (step ). Continuing the aforementioned example, the electronic device  may obtain a user identifier and authentication information of the electronic device  for use in determining whether the user identifier is registered with a social network service with which a user of the electronic device  is registered. Further, the electronic device  may query the server  to determine whether the users are identified as friends, as well as to obtain information about their social network relationship.","The method of  includes determining whether the user associated with the detected electronic device is registered with an online retailer service associated with the currently-opened electronic document (step ). For example, the electronic device  may determine whether the user of the electronic device  is registered with an online retailer service associated with the e-book , such as an online retailer service that operates the server .","The electronic device may subsequently query the online retailer service to determine whether sharing of the currently-opened electronic document is permitted (step ). For example, such a query may be communicated by the electronic device  to the server . Subsequently, the electronic device may receive a response to the query that indicates restrictions regarding how the currently-opened electronic document can be shared (step ). For example, the response may indicate time restrictions on sharing the electronic document, position restrictions on the recipient electronic device as with the disclosed examples, restrictions on portions of the electronic document that may be shared, the like, and combinations thereof.","The method of  includes determining rules configured by the user regarding sharing of the currently-opened electronic document (step ). For example, the electronic device  may determine such rules, if any, set by the user. Such rules may include any of the various restrictions on presentation of an electronic document to a recipient device as disclosed herein.","The method of  includes identifying a portion of the electronic document for sharing and determining a time period for sharing the electronic document portion based on the social network relation, the online retailer rules, and the user-configured rules (step ). For example, the information gathered in steps , , and  may be used for identifying the e-book portion  and for determining a predetermined time period for sharing the e-book portion .","The method of  includes sharing the determined electronic document portion for the predetermined time period (step ). For example, the e-book portion  may be communicated by the electronic device  to the electronic device . Further, for example, the electronic device  may communicate to the electronic device  information indicating the predetermined time period within which the electronic device  may allow presentation of the e-book portion . In an embodiment, one or both of devices  and  may communicate with the social network server  to update a status or post a message regarding the sharing of the portion of the document.","In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure,  illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for position-based loaning of electronic documents to electronic device users. The method of  is described with respect to the example system  shown in , although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. Various steps of  may be implemented entirely, or in part, by the electronic document manager  residing on the electronic device  shown in . The electronic document manager  may each be implemented by software, hardware, firmware, or combinations thereof.","Referring to , the method includes detecting one or more electronic devices in proximity (step ). For example, the electronic document manager  of the electronic device  may determine that the electronic device  is positioned within a predetermined distance in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. If multiple devices are in proximity, the user of device  may be presented a list of the devices, from which the user may select one for further discovery. For instance, the user may select device . In response to detecting the electronic device, it may be determined whether an electronic document is available for loan from the detected electronic device (step ). For example, device  may query device  and other proximate devices for a list of documents that are available for loan. Further, a request for the electronic document to be loaned may be communicated (step ). For example, a user of the electronic device  may input an identifier of the e-book  and a command to request for loan of the e-book  or a portion thereof from the electronic device .","The method of  includes providing identification information for a social network service (step ). For example, the electronic device  may provide to the electronic device  an identifier of a social network service for use by the electronic device  in verifying registration of a user of the electronic device .","The method of  includes providing identification information for an online retailer service associated with an identified electronic document (step ). For example, the electronic device  may provide to the electronic device  an identifier of an online retailer service with which the user of the electronic device  is registered, if available. If unregistered, the electronic device  may perform registration with the online retailer service. In one embodiment, the device  may provide the social network and online retailer registration information to device  preemptively before step , so as to reduce the number of individual communications between the devices, and this may influence the result of step .","The method of  includes receiving the requested electronic document, or a portion thereof, and information indicating a length of loan time (step ). For example, the electronic device  may receive the e-book portion  from the electronic device . Further, the electronic device  may receive a predetermined time period for presentation of the e-book portion .","The method of  includes starting a timer to measure an elapsed loan time (step ). For example, the electronic device , upon receipt of the electronic document portion and the predetermined time period, may start a timer for tracking the time period within which the e-book portion  may be presented.","The method of  includes presenting the electronic document portion (step ). For example, the user interface  of the electronic device  may present the e-book portion  by use of a display.","The method of  includes disabling use of the electronic document portion when the loan timer elapses or if the devices  and  are outside of a predetermined distance from one another (step ). For example, at the end of the predetermined time period, presentation of the e-book portion  may be disallowed. In another example, presentation of the e-book portion  may be disallowed if either device  or  detect that they are no longer within a predetermined distance of each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","102","700","702","102","104"]},"Subsequently, the electronic device  communicates social network identification of a User  to the electronic device  (step ). In response to receipt of the social network identification of User , the electronic device  communicates the social network identification for User  and User  to the social network  (step ). Subsequently, the social network server  determines the social network relationship between Users  and  based on the received social network identification (step ). The social network server  may then communicate information about the social network relation between Users  and  to the electronic device  (step ). For example, a status of Users  and  may be \u201cfriend.\u201d The electronic device  may then be considered a candidate for sharing of electronic documents based on the \u201cfriend\u201d status. In an embodiment where multiple devices are in proximity, the list of devices that device  or  may communicate with may be filtered based on the social network status between the users of the respective devices. For example, only those devices whose users have a social network relation status as \u201cfriend\u201d may be selected. User  may then be presented a list of devices and their users, of which User  may select one, such as device  and User , before proceeding.","At step , the electronic device  may communicate to the electronic device  a message for discovery of loanable electronic documents. In response to receipt of the discovery message, the electronic device  may communicate to the electronic device  a list of loanable or open electronic documents (step ). User  may input a command for selecting one of the listed documents (step ). Subsequently, the electronic device  may determine (or create) a registration status of User  for a retailer providing the selected electronic document (step ). The electronic device  may then communicate to the electronic device  an identifier of the selected electronic document and a registration status of User  (step ).","In response to receipt of the selected document identifier and User 's registration status, the electronic device  may communicate to the e-book retailer server  the selected document identifier and the registration statuses of Users  and  (step ). At step , the e-book retailer server  determines rules and restrictions for the electronic document. The e-book retailer server  communicates to the electronic device  the rules and restrictions to the electronic document (step ). In response to the rules and restrictions, the electronic device  applies the rules and restrictions to the electronic document (step ). The electronic device  may identify an allowed portion of the electronic document (step ). Subsequently, the allowed electronic document portion may be communicated to the electronic device  (step ). In addition, the electronic device  may communicate to the electronic device  information on restrictions for use of the electronic document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 8"],"b":["102","104","102","800","120","110","106","112","802","120","108","800","800","110","112","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 9"],"b":["122","122","900","120","124","112","902","900","900","124","112"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1","FIG. 10"],"b":["116","116","1000","120","118","124","112","1002","1000","1000","124","112"]},"In the embodiments and examples disclosed herein, an electronic document is described as being loaned or shared among electronic devices, although the systems and methods disclosed herein may similarly be applied to any suitable type of multimedia. For example, suitable multimedia to which the example systems and methods disclosed herein may be applied include, but are not limited to, video, music, and photos.","The various techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or, where appropriate, with a combination of both. Thus, the methods and apparatus of the disclosed embodiments, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium, wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computer will generally include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language, and combined with hardware implementations.","The described methods and apparatus may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium, such as over electrical wiring or cabling, through fiber optics, or via any other form of transmission, wherein, when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine, such as an EPROM, a gate array, a programmable logic device (PLD), a client computer, a video recorder or the like, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. When implemented on a general-purpose processor, the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the processing of the presently disclosed subject matter.","While the embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures, it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Therefore, the disclosed embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment, but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of various embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purposes of illustration, there is shown in the drawings exemplary embodiments; however, the present disclosure is not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
