---
title: Determining local time in a location of a telephone
abstract: In a method for placing a telephone call, a first telephone receives a request to call a second telephone. The first telephone retrieves a user preference for obtaining location information of the second telephone or of a user of the second telephone. The first telephone obtains the location information from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The plurality of sources include a social network program. The first telephone determines a local time in a geographical location identified from the location information. The first telephone displays the local time. The first telephone prompts for a decision whether to place the call to the second telephone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08687784&OS=08687784&RS=08687784
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08687784
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110801
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to wireless communication and more specifically to determining a local time in a location of a telephone.","Family, friends, and business contacts are often spread throughout the world. Calling a contact at certain times of the day may be inappropriate, depending on the time zone in which the contact and the contact's telephone are located. For example, a person located in New York City calling a contact in Beijing may not know that, because of the time zone difference, Beijing is twelve hours ahead of New York City. Therefore, calling the contact in Beijing from New York City may not be appropriate if the contact is not expecting the call, depending on the time the call is made.","A time zone, and in turn the current time, where the contact is located may be determined based on the area code of the phone number of the contact's telephone. A caller may use an Internet web site such as Verizon's Area Code Lookup page or a smart phone application such as Area Codes from VersaEdge Software LLC to determine a time zone, given an area code. Such an Internet web site or smart phone application must be accessed independently of making a telephone call, however. In other words, a caller must first look up an area code using either the Internet web site or the smart phone application before placing the call. This takes extra time and is inconvenient for the caller. Furthermore, the contact may be temporarily located in a different area code than that of the phone number of the contact's telephone at the time of the call. Similarly, a contact may choose to maintain a phone number with an area code different than the area code of the location where the contact permanently resides. In either scenario, a contact's area code may not be an accurate indication of the current location of the contact. A GPS signal of a contact's telephone may be used to determine a location of the contact's telephone, independent of the phone number of the contact's telephone. However, the GPS function of the contact's telephone may be disabled, or the contact's telephone may not have a clear connection to a GPS satellite.","In a first embodiment of the present invention, there is a method for placing a telephone call. A first telephone receives a request to call a second telephone. The first telephone retrieves a user preference for obtaining location information of the second telephone or of a user of the second telephone. The first telephone obtains the location information from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The plurality of sources include a social network program. The first telephone determines a local time in a geographical location identified from the location information. The first telephone displays the local time. The first telephone prompts for a decision whether to place the call to the second telephone.","In a second embodiment of the present invention, there is an apparatus for placing a call. The apparatus includes one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, and one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to receive a request to call a telephone. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to retrieve a user preference for obtaining location information of the telephone or of a user of the telephone. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to obtain the location information from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The plurality of sources include a social network program. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to determine a local time in a geographical location identified from the location information. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to display the local time. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to prompt for a decision whether to place the call to the telephone.","In a third embodiment of the present invention, there is a computer program product for placing a telephone call. The computer program product includes one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to receive a request to call a telephone. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to retrieve a user preference for obtaining location information of the telephone or of a user of the telephone. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to obtain the location information from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The plurality of sources include a social network program. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to determine a local time in a geographical location identified from the location information. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to display the local time. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to prompt for a decision whether to place the call to the telephone.","The present invention will now be described with reference to the figures.  illustrates a system for determining for determining a local time in a location of a target telephone  when placing a call from a telephone  to target telephone . Telephone  may be a wireless mobile telephone, a wired telephone, or any other device capable of making telephone calls to a contact. Similarly, target telephone  may be a wireless mobile telephone, a wired telephone, or any other device capable of receiving telephone calls.","Telephone  has a first display region  for displaying the name of the contact being called on target telephone . Telephone  has a second display region  for displaying the local time where the contact being called on target telephone  is currently located. For the purposes of this disclosure, it is assumed that target telephone  and the contact being called on target telephone  are concurrently located in the same location. In an example embodiment, second display region  may display the name of the city or the name of the country where the contact is currently located. In an example embodiment, second display region  has a background display image that varies based on the local time where the contact is currently located. For example, when the local time where the contact is currently located is 10:00 AM, the background display image is a bright sky with a sun, while the background display image is a dark sky with a moon when the local time where the contact is currently located is 10:00 PM.","Telephone  has a third display region , including a graphic representative of a continue button  for enabling the caller to proceed with placing the phone call to target telephone  based on information presented to the caller in second display region . Third display region  also includes a graphic representative of a cancel button  for enabling the caller to cancel the call to target telephone  based on information presented to the caller in second display region . It should be understood that, although continue button  and cancel button  have been described as being included in display region  as graphical representations, continue button  and cancel button  may also be physical buttons on telephone , in an example embodiment.","Telephone  is in communication with a cell tower  to retrieve a location of target telephone  from a telephone service provider  via a global positioning system (GPS) satellite . Telephone  is also in communication with a social network program , such as Facebook\u00ae or Twitter\u00ae, via a network , to retrieve a current location of the contact. In the embodiment illustrated in , network  is the Internet. However, one of skill in the art will appreciate that, in other embodiments, network  can be any type of network, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), or an Intranet.","Telephone  is also in communication with a location based service provider (LBS) , such as Google Latitude\u2122 or Foursquare\u00ae, via network , to retrieve a current location of the contact. Telephone  is also in communication with a time zone database , via network , to retrieve a time zone in which the contact is currently located, based on a determined area code or location. In one example embodiment, telephone  has an internal area code database (not shown) for retrieving a time zone in which the contact is currently located, based on a determined area code or location.","A local time program , stored on a computer  in communication with telephone  via network , is for determining a local time where the contact is currently located prior to placing a call to target telephone  of the contact. Local time program  can be downloaded to telephone  from computer  via network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["220","220","202","204","206","212","202","110","106","108","106","110","108","202","106","106","104","202","110","104","110"]},"Social network program function  retrieves a contact's current location from social network program . A contact's social network profile accessible from social network program  includes, among other data, the contact's residence, as defined by the contact. Social network program function  may retrieve the contact's current location, such as the contact's residence, from social network program  via any suitable means, such as a programming interface. Examples of a programming interface include an application programming interface (API), a web service interface, and a grid service interface. In one example, social network program function  may retrieve the contact's current location from the contact's Facebook profile using the Facebook Graph API. Local time program  uses the contact's current location to determine the local time zone in the contact's current location. Social network program  may also include a contact's time zone, as defined by the contact. Thus, in one example, social network program  may retrieve the contact's local time zone directly from social network program .","Address book program function  retrieves a contact's location information from a file or database, such as address book database . Address book database  stores contact phone numbers, including area codes. Address book database  may also store contact addresses. In one example, address book database  stores an identifier of a location of the contact's social network profile. Accordingly, social network program function  may retrieve the identifier from address book database  before accessing the contact's social network profile.","LBS program function  retrieves a contact's current location from LBS provider , such as Google Latitude\u2122 or Foursquare\u00ae. LBS provider  enables a contact to share a current location by updating a central server via a personal computer or a telephone. For example, a contact may \u201ccheck in\u201d at a location via Foursquare\u00ae and share the location with friends or contacts. LBS program function  retrieves a contact's current location from LBS provider  via any suitable means, such as a programming interface. The current location may then be used to determine a local time in the current location of the contact.","Local time program  has a user preference program function  for ranking and prioritizing the different methods of GPS program function , social network program function , LBS program function , and address book program function  for retrieving location information about a contact or target telephone . The reliability and accuracy of GPS program function , social network program function , LBS program function , and address book program function  varies depending on different circumstances. For example, a caller may prefer to rely on user-generated location data, such as data retrieved by social network program function , LBS program function , and address book program function , rather than rely on GPS data retrieved by GPS program function  if the caller knows that target telephone  does not produce accurate GPS data.","Data retrieved from social network program  and generated by the contact may be more accurate than data generated by the caller and stored in address book database . For example, a caller may not be aware that a contact may have moved to a new address. The contact may have updated a social network profile using social network program  with the new address while the caller may not have updated address book database  with the contact's new address. On the other hand, a caller may know that a specific contact does not update a social network profile using social network program  regularly. Thus, the caller may prefer to rely on address book program function  when determining a current location of the specific contact but may prefer to rely on social network program function  when determining a current location of other contacts. Furthermore, data generated by the contact and retrieved from LBS provider  may be more accurate than data generated by the contact and retrieved from social network program . For example, LBS program function  may determine that a contact recently updated his location by checking in, via LBS provider , at a coffee shop while on a weekend vacation. Thus, even though the contact's social network profile accessible from social network program  may be up-to-date with the contact's current home address, the coffee shop may be a more accurate current location of the contact since the contact is on vacation, away from the home address. On the other hand, a caller may know that a specific contact may not utilize LBS provider  frequently. Thus, the caller may prefer to rely on social network program function  when determining a current location of the specific contact, but may prefer to rely on LBS program function  when determining a current location of other contacts. Accordingly, the caller may utilize user preference program function  to define how local time program  obtains location information of a contact or target telephone .","Local time program  has a file or database, such as user preference database , to store a caller's preferences, obtained by user preference program function , for how to obtain a contact's location information, and in turn the local time in the contact's current location. User preference database  may store one set of preferences, applicable to all contacts. User preference database  may also store preferences according to individual contacts or groups of contacts. For example, a caller may choose to give higher priority to address book program function  for obtaining location information of business contacts while choosing to give a higher priority to social network program function  for obtaining location information of personal contacts. Thus, a caller may rank the various methods for obtaining a contact's location information according the caller's preference. The user may include any number of methods for obtaining a contact's location information in the rankings. In one example, if local time program  is unable to obtain a contact's location information via the user's top ranked method, local time program  uses the user's next ranked method(s) until local time program obtains the contact's location information or all ranked methods have been exhausted. In one example, if the user does not rank any methods or if local time program  is unable to obtain a contact's location information via the user's ranked methods, local time program  uses a default method to obtain the contact's location information. Alternatively, in one example, local time program  may generate a warning, prior to placing a call to a contact, indicating that the contact's location is not known.","Local time program  has a time zone identification program function  to select location information obtained by one of GPS program function , social network program function , LBS program function , and address book program function , based on preferences stored in user preference database , to determine the time zone in the current location of the contact based on the location information, and to calculate the local time in the time zone. Alternatively, time zone identification program function  may use an area code entered by a caller manually to determine a time zone and calculate a local time. Local time program  has a file or database, such as time zone database , for storing time zones for different area codes and\/or locations. Time zone identification program  accesses time zone database  to determine a time zone of a contact, based on a retrieved area code or current location. Alternatively, time zone identification program  may access external time zone database , via network , to determine a time zone in a current location of a contact, based on a retrieved area code or location.","While in , GPS program function , social network program function , LBS program function , time zone identification program function , address book program function , and user preference program function , as well as address book database , time zone database , and user preference database  are shown as integrated within local time program , one of skill in the art will appreciate that, in other embodiments, some or all of GPS program function , social network program function , LBS program function , time zone identification program function , address book program function , and user preference program function  as well as address book database , time zone database , and user preference database  are not integrated within, but are standalone computer programs that communicate with, local time program . One of skill in the art will further appreciate that, in another embodiment, GPS program function , social network program function , LSB program function , time zone identification program function , address book program function , and user preference program function , as well as address book database , time zone database , and user preference database  are standalone computer programs and databases on telephone , and telephone  is devoid of local time program .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","220","110","304","220","218","110","110","110","110"]},"At step , local time program  obtains, from one or more sources, according to the user preference, location information of target telephone  or of a contact associated with target telephone . Sources for obtaining location information of a telephone (or a contact the telephone is associated with) include telephone service provider  via GPS satellite , social network program , LBS provider , or meta-data stored in the telephone such as address book stored in address book database . It should be understood that, for the purposes of this disclosure, target telephone  is assumed to be located in the same location as the contact associated with target telephone . Thus, if local time program  obtains a contact's location information from social network program , for example, the obtained location information indicates the location of target telephone  as well.","Local time program  accesses one or more of the sources according to a priority preference defined by a user and stored in user preference database . For example, if local time program  attempts to obtain location information via a first source defined by a user as having the highest priority but is not successful, local time program  proceeds by attempting to obtain location information via a second source defined by the user as having the next highest priority. If local time program  is unsuccessful at obtaining location information via the second source, local time program  checks each source at each next highest priority level until the earlier of local time program  obtaining the location information or local time program  checking all of the prioritized sources. In one example, if a user does not specify a preference for a particular source, local time program  uses a default source. In one example, if after checking through all available sources without successfully obtaining location information, local time program  generates an error message, notifying the caller accordingly.","At step , local time program  determines the local time in the geographical location of target telephone  identified from the location information obtained at step . In one embodiment, local time program  accesses internal time zone database  to determine the local time. In another embodiment, local time program  accesses external time zone database  via network  to determine the local time in the geographical location of target telephone . In one example, local time program  retrieves time zone information in the form of an offset from the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). For example, local time program  may retrieve time zone information in the form of \u201cUTC-09:00.\u201d Local time program  may then calculate the difference between the local time zone of the location of telephone  and the retrieved time zone and add the difference to the local time in the geographical location of target telephone . In one example, local time program  may retrieve the local time in the geographical location of target telephone  directly, without requiring further calculation. For example, local time program  may access a web application that provides a local time, given a zip code or an area code.","At step , local time program  displays, on telephone , the local time in the geographical location of target telephone .","At step , local time program  prompts a caller for a decision whether to continue to place the call to target telephone . The prompt includes an option to cancel the call if the caller should decide that it's not a good time to call the contact associated with target telephone , based on the displayed local time in the geographical location of target telephone .","At step , local time program  receives a decision in response to the prompt given at step . A caller makes a decision by pressing either continue button  or cancel button . In an example embodiment, the caller may make a decision by speaking into a microphone in telephone .","If local time program  receives a decision from a caller to proceed with the call (decision , yes branch), then local time program  directs telephone  to place the call to target telephone  at step . If local time program  receives a decision from a caller not to proceed with the call (decision , no branch), then local time program  cancels the call at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","102","402","404","406","408","410","412","414","402","408"]},"An operating system runs on processor  and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within telephone  in . The operating system may be, for example, a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows Mobile, Apple iOS, or Blackberry OS. Instructions for the operating system, applications, or programs such as local time program  may be located on one or more computer readable storage devices, such as storage , for execution by one or more processors, such as processor , via one or more computer readable memories, such as main memory .","Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in  may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices, such as flash ROM (or equivalent nonvolatile memory) or optical disk drives and the like, may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["130","130","800","900","800","820","822","824","826","828","830","828","220","202","204","206","212","214","208","830","820","822","210","216","218","830","830","830","824"]},"Internal components  also include a R\/W drive or interface  to read from and write to one or more portable computer-readable tangible storage devices  such as a CD-ROM, DVD, memory stick, magnetic tape, magnetic disk, optical disk or semiconductor storage device. Local time program  including GPS program function , social network program function , location based service program function , address book program function , user interface program function , and time zone identification program function  can be stored on at least one or more of the portable computer-readable tangible storage devices , read via R\/W drive or interface  and loaded into at least one of one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices .","Internal components  also include a network adapter or interface  such as a TCP\/IP adapter card. Local time program  including GPS program function , social network program function , location based service program function , address book program function , user interface program function , and time zone identification program function  can be downloaded to computer  from an external computer via a network (for example, the Internet, a local area network or other, wide area network) and network adapter or interface . From the network adapter or interface , local time program , including GPS program function , social network program function , location based service program function , address book program function , user interface program function , and time zone identification program function , are loaded into at least one of one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices . The network may comprise copper wires, optical fibers, wireless transmission, routers, firewalls, switches, gateway computers and\/or edge servers.","External components  include a computer display monitor , a keyboard , and a computer mouse . Internal components  also include device drivers  to interface to computer display monitor , keyboard  and computer mouse . The device drivers , R\/W drive or interface  and network adapter or interface  comprise hardware and software (stored in one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices  and\/or one or more computer-readable ROMs ).","Local time program , including GPS program function , social network program function , location based service program function , address book program function , user interface program function , and time zone identification program function , can be written in various programming languages including low-level, high-level, object-oriented or non object-oriented languages. Alternatively, the functions of local time program , including GPS program function , social network program function , location based service program function , address book program function , user interface program function , and time zone identification program function , can be implemented in whole or in part by computer circuits and other hardware (not shown).","The description above has been presented for illustration purposes only. It is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the possible embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other combinations and embodiments are possible."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
