---
title: Bandwidth utilization monitoring for a communication system
abstract: A system to monitor bandwidth can include memory to store session data describing each communication session for at least a portion of a communication system. A bandwidth calculator can access the session data and provide a measure of bandwidth utilization computed based on the accessed session data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467361&OS=09467361&RS=09467361
owner: Shoretel, Inc.
number: 09467361
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates to communications and, more particularly, to monitoring bandwidth utilization for a communication system.","In the context of network communications, bandwidth generally refers to an average rate of data transfer through a communication path. A measure of bandwidth thus can be determined by monitoring the rate at which data flows through the path, such as based on the amount of data through the path over a period of time. A given communication path in a network usually has a maximum available bandwidth sometimes referred to as a bandwidth cap. Accordingly, it is often desirable to understand the bandwidth utilization to help ensure that data integrity is maintained by not exceeding the maximum.","As an example, bandwidth is measured actively by injecting probing traffic into the network and observing the time delay from transmission to receipt. However, such active monitoring of bandwidth disturbs the network by introducing a load into the network. Additionally, active monitoring generally provides a rough estimate of overall bandwidth since the probes are not continuously transmitted throughout the entire network.","This disclosure relates to communications and, more particularly, to monitoring bandwidth utilization for a communication system.","In one example, a system to monitor bandwidth can include memory to store session data describing each communication session for at least a portion of a communication system. A bandwidth calculator can access the session data and provide a measure of bandwidth utilization computed based on the accessed session data.","As another example, a bandwidth monitor for a communications system can include a graphical user interface programmed to set at least one parameter in response to a user input. A bandwidth calculator is programmed to compute a measure of bandwidth utilization based on session data stored in a data store for a plurality of media sessions and according to the at least one parameter. An output generator can be programmed to generate an output based on the measure of bandwidth utilization.","As yet another example, a method of monitoring bandwidth utilization can include setting parameters corresponding to at least one of a location and a time. The method can also include retrieving session data from a data store based on the parameters that have been set. The session data can be stored in the data store to characterize media stream details for a plurality of media sessions. The method can also include providing an output representing the measure of bandwidth utilization by computing a measure of bandwidth utilization based on the retrieved session data.","This disclosure relates to systems and methods for monitoring bandwidth utilization in a communication system. The systems and methods disclosed herein may be utilized to monitor bandwidth usage for any device or service, referred to herein as an endpoint, which can be implemented to communicate one or more media streams. Information describing each communication session that occurs within the communication system can be stored as session data in memory. For each communication session, a record can include fields that store an identification of one or more endpoints involved in the session, duration of the session or information sufficient to calculate the duration, and other information describing how media is communicated for the session. For example, the session data record can store information about the communications format (e.g., a codec, container format) that is utilized for communicating media in the given session. A bandwidth calculator can access the session data and compute a measure of bandwidth utilization based on the accessed session data. The resulting measure of bandwidth utilization can be used, for example, in reporting and providing alert functions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","12","10","14","14"]},"Each of the sites  can include one or more switches  and a corresponding server , such as for providing an integrated enterprise communication system . For example, each switch can be configured to handle (e.g., route) media and perform signaling between endpoints in the system . The server  can be implemented as a computer or other appliance (e.g., having a processor) that is programmed to execute instructions to perform communications related services (e.g., unified communications, messaging, collaboration services, call accounting and the like). While the switch  and server  are demonstrated as separate blocks, the functionality or at least a portion of such functionality of the switch and server can be integrated in a common block (be it the server or the switch). That is, the functionality performed by the switch  and server  can be distributed at a given site in different ways, for example, depending on its implementation and\/or manufacturer specifications.","The system  also includes a network  to which each site  is connected (e.g., via a network interface\u2014not shown). For example, each switch  can be coupled to the network  and to a public switch telephone network (PSTN) or SIP trunk service provider. Each switch  at each site  thus can provide an interface for sessions originating from or terminating at the PSTN or SIP trunk. Additionally, inter-site calls between endpoints at any site  can be communicated via the switch through its connection with the network . While the example of  demonstrates a single switch  at each site , it is to be appreciated that a site can include any number of one or more switches depending upon resource requirements. In other examples, one or more sites can include endpoints that are controlled by switches located at another site. The server  can also be coupled to the network  such as forming part of unified communication system. The local site server  may further be coupled to endpoints at such site, such as through a local network (not shown). In other examples, a given site  may have multiple servers or it may be implemented without a server.","The server  can include memory that stores data and machine-readable instructions. The server  also includes the processor that acts as the memory and performs functions and methods according to the instructions stored therein. As one example, the memory can store call manager software for performing various call handling functions as well as application programming interfaces (APIs) to access related functions and methods for use with the system . The processor of the server  can execute computer readable instructions to interact with the switch  such as to manage the switches and to record information based upon their operation.","As disclosed herein, one function of the server  is to store the session data for each communication session that flows through a given site , such as including through the switch . Such session data in the context of telephony is sometimes referred to as call detail record. A call detail record, also known as call data record, thus corresponds to a session data record, such as can be produced by a telephone exchange (e.g., the switch , the server ) or other telecommunications equipment documenting the details of a telephone phone call that passed through the site or a device within the site. A corresponding session record for each session at each site can be stored for the system  as session data . The session data can be implemented as a single data store or, alternatively, it may be a distributed database for the system . Since the signaling and exchange of other control information for a given session can also contribute the bandwidth usage, information about such data that is communicated for the given session can also be stored as part of the session data .","The session data  thus includes a record for each communication session (e.g., call). Each record includes a set of fields containing values that collectively characterize details for each respective session. The type and detail information stored in each record can vary from system to system according to application requirements. In some examples, the server  can store the session data for each communication session (e.g., a call) after the session has been terminated. In other examples, the server  can be programmed to create a session record and update the record dynamically during the progress of the session, which record can become permanent after the call has been terminated. In this way, session data  can store detailed call records for each communication session which occurs in the enterprise system .","By way of example, the system can generate multiple tables for each call session such as by generating different tables for different purposes. Relevant to computing bandwidth the session data  can include a media stream data structure (e.g., a table) that logs information about media streams, which information is sufficient for computing bandwidth usage as disclosed herein. The media stream can store information about each side of the stream, including for sessions involving more than one party as well as more than one type of communications media and transfers between different endpoints. There can be more than one record stored as session data for a given session. An example of a table that stores session data for a media stream is shown below in the following table.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"FIELD","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"PartyID","An identifier for each party to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"call."]},{"entry":[{},"PartyLocation","A name and\/or identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"location of each party (e.g., a site"]},{"entry":[{},{},"name)."]},{"entry":[{},"Network","Field to indicate whether call"]},{"entry":[{},{},"accessed a WAN."]},{"entry":[{},"Call_ID","The Call Identification number for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the media stream."]},{"entry":[{},"EncodingType","The method of voice encoding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"used for the media stream."]},{"entry":[{},"Encryption Type","The type of encryption (if any)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"used for secure transmission of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"content."]},{"entry":[{},"Network Transport Type","The type of network protocol"]},{"entry":[{},{},"used for transport of the media"]},{"entry":[{},{},"stream (e.g., TP0, TP1, TP2,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"TP3, TP4)."]},{"entry":[{},"PayloadSize","Media payload size in bytes for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"each media packet."]},{"entry":[{},"StartTime","Time the media stream began."]},{"entry":[{},"Duration","Elapsed times of call from"]},{"entry":[{},{},"beginning to end."]},{"entry":[{},"DurationSeconds","Elapsed seconds time of call"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from beginning to end."]},{"entry":[{},"Total Packets","The number of total packets"]},{"entry":[{},{},"communicated via the media"]},{"entry":[{},{},"stream. This can be total"]},{"entry":[{},{},"packets received by each party."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The monitoring system  can be configured to access the session data  and determine bandwidth usage based on such session data. For example, the monitoring system  can be implemented as a server that can access the session data directly or via the network . As mentioned above, the monitoring system  can include a processor and memory programmed with data and executable instructions that can be executed by the processor. Specifically, the monitoring system  can include a bandwidth calculator  that can compute a measure of bandwidth utilization based on the session data .","By way of example, the bandwidth calculator  can be programmed to compute a measure of bandwidth according to user programmable parameters. The parameters can include a time parameter and\/or location parameter for constraining the session data utilized in a given bandwidth calculation. For instance, the bandwidth calculator  can utilize each of the parameters to construct an appropriate query for a session data  such that corresponding records are accessed and to retrieve corresponding data for computing the bandwidth utilization.","As a further example, a designated time period can be utilized to filter the session data  and access records within the designated time period. In some examples, the timing parameter can correspond to a real time (or near real time), such that the bandwidth calculator computes a real time bandwidth utilization based on corresponding session data. In other examples, the time period can be a historical time period which can be utilized for analyzing historical trends in bandwidth utilization. Additionally, the bandwidth calculator  can be programmed to compute the measure of bandwidth utilization for a selected location such as can include the entire enterprise system , a selected site , a given switch , an endpoint or other device within the system . The granularity of the location parameters that can be specified for bandwidth calculations may depend on and thus be limited only by the level of granularity of the available session data .","For example, the bandwidth calculator  can be programmed with data or to access data identifying bandwidth information (e.g., a bandwidth mapping table) for each of a plurality of formats (e.g., container formats, codecs for audio, video or other data) that may be implemented within the system . Thus, by knowing the bandwidth (e.g., in the number of bytes per packet for a given codec) and the number of packets (e.g., identified by Encoding Type, Encryption Type and Transport Type fields of the media stream table), the bandwidth calculator  can compute bandwidth usage for a given time period. The bandwidth calculator  can perform such computation by multiplying the resulting bandwidth (e.g., number of bytes per second) times the duration for each respective session that is active during the time period and was within the specified location parameter. The computed bandwidth utilization for each session (if more than one session exists within the constraints of the time\/location parameters) can be summed to provide an aggregate indication of bandwidth utilization. In some examples, the functionality of the monitoring system  can be distributed throughout the system , and the results of monitoring can be aggregated together to provide the indication of bandwidth usage. The manner in which the different sessions are aggregated (e.g., based on location and time) can be selected by the user.","The monitoring system  can also include an output generator  that is programmed to output the computed measure of bandwidth utilization to a display or other type of output device. For example, the output generator  can provide a graphical output and\/or text based output that can be used by an administrator for monitoring bandwidth utilization for one or more locations and selected times. The output generator  can also provide the bandwidth utilization output to another application (e.g., via a corresponding application programming interface), such as can be utilized in conjunction with bandwidth management and resource utilization for the enterprise system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["50","10","50","50","52","54","54","52","54","52","52","54"]},"The monitoring system  can employ a bandwidth calculator  to compute bandwidth utilization for each session. The monitoring system  can include an aggregator  programmed to store the updated bandwidth computations as well as relevant location and timing information in a separate data store, demonstrated as aggregation data . As an example, the aggregation data  can include the calculated bandwidth utilization associated timings, such as start and end time and a calculation of the bandwidth during such time periods. Additionally, or alternatively, the relevant data used to compute bandwidth utilization can be stored in the aggregation store. By storing the bandwidth utilization information as aggregation data  separate from the session data , requests to compute bandwidth utilization for a given period and\/or location can be facilitated.","As a further example, the system  can be implemented in a distributed manner that can include multiple monitoring systems that can collect and analyze session data for different locations. The different locations can be different geographic locations and\/or correspond to different parts of an organizational enterprise that may or may not be at spatially different locations. The locations that can be accessed by the monitoring system can vary depending on authorization afforded to a given user and in response to user inputs. Each monitoring system  thus can collect and analyze the session data to calculate bandwidth usage as disclosed herein. The monitoring system  further can employ the aggregator  to correlate information globally, including from one more of the locations. For example, the aggregator  can be programmed to aggregate session data and\/or bandwidth usage calculations from one or more specified locations within the enterprise. The aggregator  can store the results in the aggregation data .","The monitoring system  can also include a user interface  programmed to provide for human-machine interface with the monitoring system. One or more authorized user (e.g., an administrator) can employ the user interface  such as for setting parameters and\/or initiating computations. The parameters, for example, can include a start time\/date, an end time\/date as well as location information. For example, the parameters can be entered via the user interface via drop-down menus, dialog boxes or other text-based and graphical elements. The user interface  can also be utilized to access various functions and methods implemented through the monitoring system, including an alert generator  and a report generator .","As disclosed herein, the bandwidth calculator  can compute a real time measure of bandwidth utilization for an ongoing media session. To facilitate such real time bandwidth utilization calculations, the session data store  can be configured to store records associated with ongoing communication sessions. For example, a server or switch at a given site can create a dynamic record at a beginning of each call. This dynamic record can store data in fields similar to or consistent with a full session data record as disclosed herein. The dynamic session data record thus can employ the same schema as the regular session data but be updated to capture dynamic changes in call topology or other types of bandwidth changes that might occur during a call session. It is to be appreciated that the bandwidth calculator  can compute such enhanced real time bandwidth utilization without having to monitor directly data flow to each of the respective switches and other hardware resources throughout the system. Thus, because session data for a media session is used instead of active or passive bandwidth monitoring of flow through hardware, the bandwidth monitoring can be considered indirect and less intrusive than other approaches.","As a further example, bandwidth of an ongoing call can change dynamically such as if a call manager for the system employs a prioritization scheme in which a given call may be downgraded to a lower priority to use less bandwidth. Additionally, if a user is experiencing low quality during a call, the system (e.g., a call manager) may identify the quality of service as being below a threshold and downgrade the codec. For multi-party calls, if a party is added with different codec capabilities, this can also effect and change the bandwidth of the communication session. As yet of a further example, bandwidth of an ongoing call can change in a fixed mobile conversion system, such as if a user transfers an ongoing call from a cellular phone to a corresponding desk phone or vice versa. Such changes and fluctuations in bandwidth can be stored dynamically within the session data . This dynamic session data thus can be stored at a central data store that is utilized by each site within the enterprise or it can be locally maintained at each site or in an otherwise distributed manner.","The monitoring system  further may include a bandwidth data manager  that can be utilized to control and configure the session data extractor  and manage the session data store . For example, the bandwidth data manager  can include an API to access the records (e.g., such as the dynamic session data as well as final session data) implemented in remote servers for each session. Additionally, after the session data has been completed and the record stored as the final session data in the data store , the bandwidth data manager  can periodically purge the dynamic data records, such as if they are maintained separately from the final session data records.","The bandwidth calculator  further can employ configuration data  as part of its computation of bandwidth utilization. The configuration data  can include a format bandwidth lookup table that identifies the respective bandwidth that can be utilized for each of a plurality of respective communication formats (e.g., audio codecs, video codecs, multimedia codecs and other container formats for different types of media). For example, a given codec for a media stream and number of packets can be logged as part of the session data (and temporary session data) and the number of bytes per packet for each available format can be stored as part of the configuration data . Further by tracking if and when a format changes during a communication session, improved accuracy in bandwidth utilization computations can result.","The alert generator  can be programmed to generate one or more alert messages in response to detecting bandwidth utilization exceeding one or more thresholds. The alert generator can run continuously (e.g., as a background process) or it may be initiated by a user. For example, one or more thresholds can be established for identifying excessive bandwidth utilization. Such thresholds can be set by default or be user programmable via the user interface . For instance, a warning level can be set to about sixty percent (60%) of an available total bandwidth and an excessive bandwidth utilization of threshold can be set to about eighty percent (80%) of the total available bandwidth. In response to the alert generator  detecting the bandwidth utilization (e.g., as computed by the bandwidth calculator ) exceeding such a threshold, a corresponding alert can be generated. As mentioned above, the alert can be sent to an individual user (e.g., an administrator) or to a corresponding application such that bandwidth allocation management can be performed in real time or near real time. Additionally or alternatively, the alert generator  can be programmed to monitor bandwidth utilization the entire system as well as for a user selected location or set of locations, such as a site, a switch or other resources that may be located throughout the system. A level of location granularity associated with the alert can be user defined via the user interface .","The report generator  can be utilized to generate one or more reports related to bandwidth utilization. As described herein, the reports can correspond to real time reports about bandwidth utilization for the system or a user-selected location within the system. Additionally or alternatively, the reports can include historical trending of bandwidth utilization for a user-selectable period of time and\/or location. The reports can include text information as well as graphical information such as disclosed herein. A user can program the parameters associated with each report that is generated via the user interface . As described herein, such parameters can include setting time parameters, such as a start time and an end time or requesting real time bandwidth utilization information. Parameters may also include location-specific information such as by identifying whether the bandwidth computation should be for the entire system, one or more sites within the system or for resources within a given site such as a switch or the like.","The bandwidth calculator  further may be available to other tools that may be used for monitoring one or more other areas of system operations. For example, an interactive topographical map of an enterprise system can be generated by an administrator tool. The tool can employ the bandwidth calculator  to determine bandwidth utilization for one or more locations in the map, such as in response to user interactions with the map. The resulting bandwidth computations can be displayed on the map.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["100","100","102","103","102","104","104","104","106","102","106"]},"Each switch  can be configured for controlling routing of media data including various forms of media to endpoint resources. By way of example, the call manager  running on the server  can control the switches  such as by configuring and allocating bandwidth and selecting one or more communication formats (e.g., codecs or container formats) for each communication session. As mentioned above, in other examples, the call manager  can reside on the switch to perform such functions. Each switch can be coupled to the IP network  as well as to one or more other networks, such as to the PSTN or a SIP trunk, for example.","The server  can also include a session record generator  that is programmed to create a session record and provide session details for each respective communication session. As disclosed herein, the session record generator  can create a record at the beginning of each respective call that originates within or external to the site . The session record stores pertinent detailed information in predefined fields for the media session, such as disclosed herein. The session record generator  can store pertinent session data in real time during the call such as part of session data (e.g., data store  of ). Additionally or alternatively, the session record generator  can store the session information locally during the call and then write the complete record in the session data (e.g., session data  of ) after the call has been terminated. The corresponding session data can be utilized in performing bandwidth utilization computations as disclosed herein. By way of example, the session record generator can also identify location-related information for the media sessions, such as the given switch  through which the call passes, respective endpoint resources  at the site involved in the call as well as identification of additional endpoints within the site or external to the site. As disclosed herein, the site may be located within a unified communication system or endpoints can be external to the system. Information about each such endpoint can be stored as part of the session record.","The call manager  can employ format data  that can be included in a local site data store . The format data  can include a set of available codecs, container formats that can be utilized by corresponding endpoint resources at the site such as for negotiating and managing communication parameters for a given session. The format data  can be fixed or new formats (e.g., new codecs, types of coding or container formats) can be added such as during updates or other system changes that may be implemented. The format(s) used for a given session can also be stored as part of the session record along with time (e.g., start time, end time, duration), the number of packets and other information (e.g., encryption type and transport type), such as disclosed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["150","50","150","150","152","150","152"]},"A user further may be able to drill down to more detailed resources associated with a given site or other resources. As shown in , an example GUI  for a site topology map is shown. It is to be appreciated that the topology maps of  can further be utilized to show other information in addition to bandwidth usage, such as equipment status, user information or the like. In the example of , the GUI  includes a plurality of switches  each of which can be coupled to a plurality of endpoint devices . In addition each switch  can be coupled to each of the other respective switches as well as to PSTN or SIP trunks, demonstrated at . In this way, a call can originate via the PSTN or SIP trunk service or it may originate within the site at a corresponding endpoint resource . The user of the GUI  thus can hover over connections and resources within the site topology to obtain an indication of bandwidth utilization such as can be computed by a bandwidth calculator as disclosed herein. Additional functionality can be provided via drop down menus such as for selecting historical information associated with bandwidth usage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["180","66","182","184","186","188"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 2"],"b":["190","194","196","194","64"]},"The example of  demonstrates bandwidth utilization  for SITE_X as a percentage of total bandwidth. It is to be appreciated that an actual calculated bandwidth can be presented in the report . Additionally or alternatively, the report can be generated as an interactive report, such that a user can employ a GUI to drill down and obtain additional information, such as bandwidth usage for a selected resources or sets of resources within SITE_X.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["200","202","204","206","200"]},"In view of the foregoing structural and functional features described above, an example method  will be better appreciated with reference to . While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the method  is shown and described as executing serially, it is to be understood and appreciated that the method is not limited by the illustrated order, as parts of the method could occur in different orders and\/or concurrently from that shown and described herein. Such method  can be executed by various components configured in a computer, such as a server, or stored in memory as machine-readable instructions, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["300","302"]},"At , session data is stored. The session data can include detailed accounting information associated with each respective media session such as disclosed herein. The session data can be stored in a temporary data store for a site or other location or it can be session data store for an entire system. For purposes of a bandwidth calculations, such bandwidth relevant session data can include information identifying the location or endpoints of the session, time associated with the session (e.g., start time, stop time), session format(s) (e.g., coding or other container types) utilized during the session and the like. It is to be appreciated that the session data can be stored during the call (in real time) and\/or such session data may be stored after the call has been terminated.","At , the session data records can be accessed. The records can be accessed via a query such as based on the parameters defined at . At , the corresponding format bandwidth data can be accessed. For instance, the bandwidth data can be stored in a look-up table that includes an identification of bandwidth (e.g., bytes per packet) for a set of given types of coding that may be available, including that which has been identified in the session data accessed for . As described herein, the format type can be selected according to the bandwidth that was allocated by a call manager as deemed appropriate for a given communication session.","At , the corresponding bandwidth usage can be computed. At  the output of the bandwidth computation can be provided. The output can be provided to a display such as to provide an indication of the bandwidth based upon the parameters. As disclosed herein, real time bandwidth measurements can be made for the system such as in response to activation by a user of appropriate monitoring methods. Additionally or alternatively, historical trending of bandwidth utilization can be made based on user defined parameters corresponding to time as well as locations within the corresponding enterprise system. It is to be appreciated that the systems and methods disclosed herein provide an indirect mechanism that can provide an accurate measure of bandwidth utilization of various levels of granularity without injecting probes into the communication stream for a given session. Additionally, fewer resources are required than other approaches since it can be performed indirectly in the absence of measuring actual traffic flowing through resources.","What have been described above are examples. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies, but one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly, the disclosure is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the scope of this application, including the appended claims. As used herein, the term \u201cincludes\u201d means includes but not limited to, the term \u201cincluding\u201d means including but not limited to. The term \u201cbased on\u201d means based at least in part on. Additionally, where the disclosure or claims recite \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201ca first,\u201d or \u201canother\u201d element, or the equivalent thereof, it should be interpreted to include one or more than one such element, neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
