---
title: Method and apparatus for measuring container bulge
abstract: An extensible frame adapted to receive and maintain a rectilinear container applied upon an interior ledge extensible frame. Two or more orthogonally aligned sensor assemblies are provided to measure deflection of panels forming the container when a static or dynamic load is applied upon an uppermost panel. Each sensor assembly outputs a signal corresponding to a deflection of a panel induced by the load applied upon the uppermost panel. Signals output from the sensor assemblies are received and processed by an output processing unit in either a human cognizable or machine readable format. The amount deflection measured by the sensor assemblies corresponds to an amount of bulge of a panel when a defined load is applied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08746085&OS=08746085&RS=08746085
owner: Cal Poly Corporation
number: 08746085
owner_city: San Luis Obispo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110907
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","RELEVANT FIELD","RELEVANT ART","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Not applicable","Not applicable","This application is directed generally toward containers and more specifically toward container response under load.","Containers are used in a wide variety of applications for transportation and storage of wide variety of products including but not limited to industrial, commercial, consumer, government and agricultural uses. The construction of the containers should be sufficient to maintain the products without damage. In many instances, containers are aggregated onto pallets for convenience in transportation and storage. In such instances, containers having superjacent and adjacent containers may become deformed due to compressive forces induced upon one or more container walls. The amount of deformation affects both the ability to protect the contents of the containers and also influences packing densities upon a pallet. Accordingly, there is need in the relevant art to determine the extent of container deformation under load.","The approaches described in this section could be pursued, but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","In view of the foregoing, various inventive embodiments for measuring container bulge are described. In an inventive embodiment, an extensible frame is provided. The extensible frame is extensible in at least two axes to allow for bulge measurements of various sizes of containers. In some inventive embodiments, the extensible frame includes an interior ledge dimensioned to maintain the container in a snug fit relationship within a rectilinear aperture formed by the extensible frame. The interior ledge may be disposed along the periphery of the rectilinear aperture.","Sensor assemblies may be coupled to the extensible frame to measure container bulging along the two or more axes. The sensor assemblies are typically positioned in communication with about centroidal areas of panels forming the container and are adapted to output signals corresponding to measured deflections induced applied upon the panels by an external load applied upon the container. The measured deflections represent bulging of the container at least at the centroidal areas of the panels when the external load is applied to a panel of the container. An output processing unit is operatively coupled to the plurality of sensor assemblies for converting the output signals to either of a human cognizable format or a machine readable format.","In an inventive embodiment, the extensible frame may be formed from a set of beams, each of the beams being slidably or repositionably coupled at about one end with a longitudinal slot of another beam aligned orthogonally to the slidably coupled beam. Additional beams may be provided to form the rectilinear aperture to fully encompass an outer periphery of the container without causing substantial interference with the measured deflections.","In an inventive embodiment, each of the sensor assemblies include a platen which is used to abut against a panel of the container in a face-to-face relationship such that a deflection of the panel induces displacement of the platen and a sensor for converting the displacement of the platen into a signal readable by the output processing unit. In some inventive embodiments, the platen is abutted against the panel of the container at about the panel's centroid. In various inventive embodiments, the container may be a corrugated fiberboard container, a metal container and a plastic container.","Measurements of container bulge may be performed using any of the above described inventive embodiments by adjusting the extensible frame to snuggly fit against an exterior periphery of a container while a bottom panel of the container maintains uniform contact with the ledge. A load is then uniformly applied upon a top panel opposite the bottom panel. Bulging of the container induced by the load may then be measured along two or more axes simultaneously.","Various inventive embodiments of a method and apparatus for measuring container bulge are disclosed herein. In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present inventive embodiments. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present inventive embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures, construction materials and\/or shapes may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventive embodiments.","Container bulge is a well known packaging phenomenon for which an industry-wide accepted apparatus and method for measuring container bulge has not been established. As a result, there is a general lack of knowledge about the physical characteristics of container bulge and its effect on a container's structural integrity. The bulge measurement apparatus disclosed herein provides an accurate and reproducible platform and method for precisely measuring and evaluating container bulge in a way that was previously unavailable.","Referring to , a perspective view of a bulge measurement apparatus  in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In an inventive embodiment, the bulge measurement apparatus  includes an extensible frame  and two or more sensor assemblies X, Z and\/or Y which measure deflection of two or panels of a container  () supported upon the extensible frame  when an external load is applied upon the container. Each of the sensor assemblies X, Z and\/or Y include platens X, Y, Z which abut against orthogonal panels of the container during bulge measurement.","In some inventive embodiments, the extensible frame  is formed from a set of beams , , , arranged such that each adjacent beam is orthogonally aligned to form a rectilinear  aperture encompassed by the extensible frame . In some such embodiments, each beam , , , includes a longitudinally aligned section , , , attached to a top face thereof. The sections , , , form a ledge , , , applied upon the top of the beams , , , . The ledge , , , is dimensioned to maintain a bottom (lower) panel of a container  in face-to-face relationship with an outer periphery of the bottom and side (upright) panels of the container  without substantially interfering with biaxial or triaxial bulge measurements. In an inventive embodiment, the ledge , , , forms a support surface for a perimeter of the container  to rest upon. In this inventive embodiment, the ledge , , , is configured to provide a recessed lip for the container to fit snugly inside. This arrangement prevents the container  from shifting on the frame  during bulge measurement.","The ledge dimension should remain consistent for each bulge measurement irrespective of changes in the dimensions of the rectilinear aperture . In an inventive embodiment, the ledge , , , is formed from a stack of aluminum strip bar stock affixed to the top of the frame . Each aluminum strip allows the ledge , , , to properly dovetail forming an extensible and consistent 0.5 inch support surface which defines the perimeter of the rectilinear aperture .","One skilled in the art will appreciate that the apparatus  may be scaled to accommodate other container dimensions. Resizing of the frame  maintains a constant contact surface of about 0.5 inch with a bottom (lower) panel of a container  () irrespective of the dimensions of the container .","Bulge measurements are accomplished using the two or more sensor assemblies X, Z and\/or Y. In an inventive embodiment, the two or more sensor assemblies X, Z and\/or Y are aligned along X, Y and\/or Z axes (biaxial or triaxial) of a container  undergoing bulge testing. For purposes of illustration, triaxial orientations  are used for consistency throughout this specification. The triaxial orientation is set forth with the X-axis spanning left and right orientations, the Y-axis spanning top and bottom orientations, and the Z-axis spanning front and back orientations. A more thorough discussion of the two or more sensor assemblies X, Z and\/or Y is provided in the discussion accompanying .","Referring to , a close-up perspective view of a frame locking mechanism , \u2032 in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In an embodiment, the beams , , , forming the frame  shown in  include an interior pair of longitudinal T-channels , , ,  which allows adjacent orthogonally aligned beams to be slidably repositioned to accommodate various container sizes. In some such inventive embodiments, the beams , , , may be constructed using 3060 precision extrude aluminum.","The longitudinal T-channels , , ,  of the beams , , , slidably receive locking members , \u2032 positioned to retain a particular geometry associated with a container shape. In an inventive embodiment, the locking members , \u2032 include an L-shape side profile with a width approximating a width of a broad dimension of the T-channels , , ,  and a protrusion dimensioned to fit within a narrow dimension of the T-channels , , , . The locking members , \u2032 may be held in place against inner walls of the T-channels , , ,  using fasteners which wedge the locking members , \u2032 within the T-channels , , , .","One skilled in the art will appreciate that other mechanisms may be used to maintain the beams , , , in a particular orientation. By way of example and not limitation, each beam , , , may be constructed with a longitudinal slot. A threaded projection on one end of each beam may extend perpendicularly through the slot. A threaded hand wheel or lever may then be tightened to lock each beam in a particular orientation (not shown). Other arrangements not discussed may likewise be implemented to accomplish a particular design objective.","Referring to , a top view of a bulge measurement apparatus  in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, the frame  is constructed from four orthogonally aligned beams , , , . Each beam , , , is slidably repositionable along a long axis , , , of an adjacent orthogonally aligned beam at a proximal end. End of travel end caps , , , are provided at distal ends of each beam , , , to limit extension of the frame beyond a long dimension of the beams , , , ","Typically, at least two orthogonal panels (biaxial) ,  () of a container  are measured for bulge. For example, repositionable X-axis and Z-axis sensor assemblies X, Z are repositionably coupled to the frame . In this example, X-axis and Z-axis sensor assemblies X, Z are repositionable along a long axis of beams and respectively. A container  undergoing bulge measurement causes sensors ,  (FIG. A,B) coupled with the associated the assemblies X, Z to output a signal having a functional relationship to deflection of upright (sidewall) and bottom panels , ,  of the container .","The output signal is operatively coupled to an output processing unit  (). The output processing unit  () is described in more detail in the discussion accompanying .","In an inventive embodiment, a third Y-axis sensor assembly Y is optionally provided to measure deflection of a bottom panel  of the container . The Y-axis sensor assembly Y is manually positioned to measure Y-axis deflections of a bottom panel  of the container  when a uniform load  () is applied upon a top (upper) panel  () opposite the bottom panel . In either inventive embodiment, simultaneous bulge measurements may be obtained from biaxial or triaxial orientations of the container . This arrangement allows bulge measurement of a fully assembled container  to be performed to better understand how a particular container responds under load, for example to emulate response of a container in a palletized configuration (not shown.) As previously discussed, each sensor assembly X, Y, Z includes a platen X, Y, Z which is used to contact a panel , ,  of the container  undergoing bulge measurement.","In this example, the X-axis and Z-axis platens X, Z are aligned such that a planar face of each platen X, Z is aligned in parallel with a vertical edge of the ledges , , , . Analogously, the Y-axis platen Y is aligned in parallel with horizontal edges of the ledges , . The platens X, Y and Z are intended to abut against a panel of a container without compression or deformation. In an inventive embodiment, the platens X, Y, Z are dimensioned to encompass an area surrounding a centroid of a container panel such that non-uniform deflection(s) of one or more of the panels is measured by the relevant sensor assembly(ies) X, Y, and\/or Z.","Referring to , a side plan view of a beam in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, the beam includes a pair of longitudinally aligned T-channels , , a first leg  is coupled perpendicularly to the beam at about the proximal end. A pair of longitudinally aligned T-fittings ,  is affixed to the proximate end of the beam . The T-fittings ,  are dimensioned to slidably fit within a complementary pair of T-channels ,  () of another beam with minimal free play between the T-channels ,  and the repositionably engaged T-fittings , . In an inventive embodiment, a bracket  is slidably coupled with the T-channels , . The bracket  allows a sensor assembly X (sensor assembly Z analogous) to be positioned longitudinally along the length of the beam ","In one inventive embodiment, the bracket  includes a separate set of T-fittings which slidably engage the T-channels ,  (not shown), held in a bulge measurement position with a threaded hand knob  inserted through one of a plurality of vertical index apertures  and tightened against a face of the beam . In another inventive embodiment, fasteners are used to lock the bracket  supporting the sensor assembly X (Z) in a bulge measurement position (not shown). A riser  slidably fits within a guide portion \u2032 of the bracket . The guide portion \u2032 of the bracket  is dimensioned to slidably receive a riser  therethrough for positioning of the sensor assembly X (Z) along the Y-axis. The sensor assembly X (Z) is coupled perpendicularly to a top end of the riser .","Proper positioning of the sensor assembly X (Z) along the Y-axis is accomplished by raising or lowering the riser  within the guide portion \u2032 of the bracket  and locking the sensor assembly X (Z) into position using one of the vertical index apertures  and a hand knob , pin, or bolt inserted through a selected index aperture  such that the platen X (Z) of the sensor assembly X (Z) is positioned at about a centroid of a panel  () of the container .","Referring to , second and third side views of a beam in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, the beam includes a second pair of longitudinally aligned T-channels , . This view is an opposing side of the beam . In this inventive embodiment, the second pair of longitudinally aligned T-channels ,  receives a separate set of T-fittings from an adjacent beam () which slidably engages the T-channels ,  to form the frame  as shown in .","The legs ,  may be perpendicularly joined with the beam at about its longitudinal proximate and distal ends using fasteners, welding and\/or bonding. The legs , ,  may be joined to the beam such that an outer longitudinal face of the leg  abuts against an adjacent orthogonal beam . In such inventive embodiments, the outer longitudinal face of the leg  further minimizes movement of the beams coupled together using the T-slots ,  and T-fittings , , such that precision bulge measurements may be obtained by the sensor assemblies X, Y, Z.","Referring to , a top view of a sensor assembly X, Z in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, sensor assemblies X and Z are substantially similar in construction and layout. For brevity, the discussion which follows refers to both sensor assemblies X, Z.","In an inventive embodiment, the X and Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z include a base support plate  in which the various components forming the sensor assemblies X, Z are installed. In this inventive embodiment, a pair of linear slide bearings , \u2032 is coupled to the base support plate  in a parallel spaced relationship on about opposing sides of the base support plate . Push rods , \u2032 extend axially through each linear bearing , \u2032. The pushrods , \u2032 are perpendicularly coupled at one end with the platen X, Z such that a perpendicular or tangential force imposed on the platen X, Z causes the pushrods , \u2032 to axially move in relation to a displacement of the platen X, Z induced by the perpendicular or tangential force.","A sensor(s)  is coupled with the pushrods , \u2032 with bridge elements , \u2032. The bridge elements , \u2032 are coupled to the pushrods ,  in such a way that a non-uniform force applied upon the platen X, Z causes the sensor(s)  to move in an axis which parallels a longitudinal dimension of the pushrods , \u2032. This arrangement allows precise bulge measurement of a container  () in the intended axis to be quantified. In this inventive embodiment, the sensor(s)  is a linear magnetic induction sensor. A separate magnetic induction unit  is coupled to the base support plate  and provided in a parallel spaced relationship beneath the sensor(s) .","The sensor(s)  and magnetic induction unit  forms a magnetic linear encoding module  which outputs a signal having a functional relationship with an amount of displacement induced applied upon the platen X, Z by the perpendicular or tangential force.","The signal output by the sensor(s)  may be digital (e.g., TTL) or analog (e.g. 4-20 ma, 0-10v) as needed to achieve a particular design objective. Likewise, the type of linear encoding module  used to measure displacement may be changed to an optical, inductive, capacitive, or eddy current linear encoding module to achieve a particular design objective. The sensor(s)  is coupled to an output processing unit  (). Details of the output processing unit  are provided in the discussion accompanying . A suitable magnetic linear encoding module  including an output processing unit  is available from DRO PROS, 4992 Allison Parkway Suite G, Vacaville, Calif. 95688, www.dropros.com.","Referring to , a side plan view of a sensor assembly Y in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, the Y-axis sensor assembly Y includes a base plate  and an opposing top plate  aligned in a parallel spaced relationship maintained by two or more upright support posts , \u2032. An upright support plate  is coupled to the base plate  generally paracentral relative to a longitudinal centerline of the Y axis sensor assembly Y. In this inventive embodiment, the linear slide bearing  is coupled to the upright support plate  and aligned such that the pushrod  extend axially through the linear bearing  and perpendicularly through an aperture in the top support plate  along the longitudinal centerline of the Y-axis sensor assembly Y. As discussed with respect to the X and Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z, the platen Y is coupled perpendicularly to an end of the pushrod  such that a perpendicular or tangential force imposed on the platen Y causes the pushrods  to axially move in relation to a displacement of the platen Y induced by the perpendicular or tangential force.","The Y-axis sensor assembly Y differs from the X and Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z in that a single pushrod  may be used and is manually positioned beneath the frame  to measure Y-axis bulging typically on a bottom panel  () of a container  (). In another inventive embodiment, the Y-axis platen Y may have a smaller contact surface area than that of the X and Z axis platens X, Z. Other aspects of the Y-axis sensor assembly Y are substantially similar to the X and Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z and are not repeated here for brevity. The Y-axis sensor assembly Y may be considered optional in certain configurations where bulging of the bottom panel  is inhibited by other containers or a rigid surface (e.g., palletized stacking implementations.)","Referring to , a perspective view of an apparatus  for measuring container bulge in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, a container  is maintained within the frame . The container  generally includes a polyhedral shape (e.g., cube or regular prism) which corresponds to the rectilinear aperture  formed by the frame .","The frame  is supported by the upright legs  (not visible), , ,  (not visible), , , ,  which rest upon a level horizontal planar surface . A load  is uniformly applied upon a top (upper) panel  of the container  which provides compressive force between the load  and the ledges , , , () of the frame . The applied load  should at least be uniformly distributed across the top (upper) face of the panel .","The X and Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z are positioned such that their respective platens X, Z abut against upright (side) panels ,  of the container  at about respective centroids of the upright (side) panels , . In these positions, outward deflections ,  of the upright (side) panels ,  causes displacement of the X and Z-axis platens X, Z measured by the X and Z-axis linear encoder modules  () which outputs signals to the output processing unit .","The Y-axis sensor assembly Y is within the frame  with the platen Y (not visible) abutted against at about a centroid of a bottom (lower) panel  (not visible). In this position, outward deflection  of the bottom (lower) panel  causes displacement of the Y-axis sensor  () measured by the Y-axis linear encoder module  () which outputs a signal to the output processing unit .","The X, Z and optionally Y-axis sensor assemblies X, Z, Y are coupled to the output processing unit  which converts output signals generated by the linear encoder modules  (, B) into displacement measurements. In an inventive embodiment, the output processing unit  may be repositionably coupled to the frame  with an extension arm . The arm  may be coupled to the frame  using the arrangements analogous to the X or Z axis sensor assemblies X, Z.","In one inventive embodiment, the output processing unit  is an analog device which measures changes in voltage, current and\/or resistance which is output to two or more analog meters using internal metering circuits (not shown). The scales of the analog meters (not shown) may be calibrated in units of displacement.","In another inventive embodiment, the output processing unit  is a digital device having a processor, ASIC or VLSI circuit(s), memory and executable instructions to convert output signals received from the X, Z and optionally Y-axis sensor assemblies X, Z, Y into displacement measurements in engineering units. The displacement measurements may be output to a display coupled to the output processing unit  in a human cognizable format and\/or stored in a machine readable format for archival and other purposes. Where necessary, suitable analog to digital conversion circuits may be provided to convert analog signals generated by the X, Z and optionally Y-axis sensor assemblies X, Z, Y into digital formats compatible with digital logic circuits employed by the output processing unit . The output processing unit  may be used to simultaneously quantify bulging of the container  along two or more axes as well as simultaneously quantifying bulging at multiple positions along a single axis of interest.","Referring to , a cross-sectional view of a container  undergoing bulge measurement in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, a load  is uniformly applied upon a top (upper) panel  of a container . The load  causes one or panels , ,  to deflect outward , ,  from their respective static (unloaded) positions which is measured by one or more of the sensor assemblies X, Z, Y and quantified by the output processing unit . The amount of deflection , ,  may be quantified using the output processing unit  with either a static or dynamic load .","For example, a static load  may be applied upon the container  to determine the bulging characteristics under a predefined load condition. Analogously, a dynamic load may be applied upon the container  to determine how a container responds to varying load conditions or to determine an acceptable maximum amount of bulging that a particular container  can successfully exhibit for a particular implementation.","As previously discussed, bulging of one or more container panels , ,  may not be uniform in each axis and\/or opposing panels. Accordingly, additional sensor assemblies may be added to the frame  to determine how a particular container  responds under a particular load condition or set of load conditions.","Referring to , a method  for measuring container bulge in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted. In this inventive embodiment, the method is initiated at step  by adjusting the extensible frame  to snuggly receive a container  within a rectilinear aperture  formed by interior walls of the extensible frame . At block , the container  may be constructed from corrugated fiberboard, metal or plastic . At step  the container  is positioned within the rectilinear aperture such that upright panels ,  of the container  are encompassed by the extensible frame  and a bottom panel  of the container  is flush with at least a portion of an interior ledge A, , , . At block , the upright panels ,  are sidewalls (first and second panels) of the container  and a third panel  is a bottom panel of the container .","At step , axial sensor assemblies X, Z and optionally another axial sensor Y are positioned such that platens X, Z and\/or Y associated with each of the sensor assemblies abut at about centroidal areas of orthogonally aligned panels. At block , first and second sensor assemblies X, Z allows for biaxial bulge measurement. Adding a third sensor assembly Y orthogonal to the first and second sensor assemblies X, Z allows for triaxial bulge measurement. The bulge measurements are performed simultaneously along two or more axes.","At step , an external load  is uniformly applied upon a top (upper) panel  of the container  opposite the bottom (lower) panel . At block , the top (upper) panel  is defined as the fourth panel  of the container .","At step , the deflection signals output from the axial sensor assemblies X, Z and optionally Y are quantified using the output processing unit  in either a human cognizable format and\/or a machine readable format. At block , the deflection signals are quantified simultaneously along two or more axes and represent measurements of bulge on one or more panels , ,  of the container . At step , the method  ends with the completion of bulge measurements.","The various inventive embodiments described herein are intended to be merely illustrative of the principles underlying the inventive concept. It is therefore contemplated that various modifications of the disclosed embodiments will without departing from the inventive scope and spirit be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art. They are not intended to limit the various inventive embodiments to any precise form described. In particular, it is contemplated that the materials in which the apparatus is constructed from, placement of the various sensor assemblies, general dimensions and\/or implementation sequence may be varied to accommodate a particular design objective. Accordingly, no specific limitation is intended to an particular inventive embodiment described herein. Other variations and inventive embodiments are possible in light of the above teachings, and it is not intended that the inventive scope be limited by this specification, but rather by the Claims following herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["The features and advantages of the various inventive embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Where possible, the same reference numerals and characters are used to denote like features, elements, components or portions of the inventive embodiments. It is intended that changes and modifications can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the true scope and spirit of the inventive embodiments as is defined by the claims.","FIG. \u2014depicts a perspective view of a bulge measurement apparatus in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. A\u2014depicts a close-up perspective view of a frame locking mechanism in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. \u2014depicts a top view of a bulge measurement apparatus in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. A\u2014depicts a side view of a beam in accordance with an inventive embodiment is depicted.","FIG. B\u2014depicts a second side view of a beam in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. C\u2014depicts a third side view of a beam in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. A\u2014depicts a top view of a sensor assembly in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. B\u2014depicts a side plan view of a sensor assembly in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. \u2014depicts a perspective view of an apparatus for measuring container bulge in accordance with an inventive embodiment.","FIG. \u2014depicts a cross-sectional view of a container undergoing bulge measurement in accordance with an exemplary embodiment.","FIG. \u2014depicts a method for measuring container bulge in accordance with an inventive embodiment."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
