---
title: Pulse tube refrigerator with tunable inertance tube
abstract: An inertance tube for a pulse tube refrigerator which can be tuned to optimize performance. Apertures in the inertance tube fluidly communicate the inertance tube with a fluid reservoir. The effective length of the inertance tube is changed by alternatively closing or opening the apertures. Changing the effective length of the inertance tube causes a phase shift between the mass flow and pressure waves in the working gas which, in turn, changes the acoustic power. Controlling the phase angle improves Carnot efficiency. The cooling load capacity of the pulse tube refrigerator is a function of the acoustic power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09091463&OS=09091463&RS=09091463
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09091463
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111109
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1(a) of Executive Order 10096, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force, to the entire right, title and interest therein, including foreign rights.","1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates generally to pulse tube refrigerators, including pulse tube cryogenic coolers, and more specifically to pulse tube refrigerators equipped with reservoirs and inertance tubes.","2. Background Art","Pulse Tube Refrigerators (\u201cPTRs\u201d) play an important role in satisfying the need for cryogenic cooling of space-based infrared detectors as well as many other applications requiring coolers with high reliability, low vibration and high efficiency. PTRs employ three types of phase shifting processes to control the phase shift between the mass flow and pressure. The most conventional is used in Orifice Pulse Tube Refrigerators (\u201cOPTRs\u201d), wherein the mass flow and pressure are in phase at the orifice. In Double Inlet Pulse Tube Refrigerators (\u201cDIPTRs\u201d), a bypass valve between the warm end of the pulse tube and the warm end of the regenerator provides phase shifting. In Inertance Tube Pulse Tube Refrigerators (\u201cITPTRs\u201d), which are the focus of this innovation, phase shifting is controlled by an inertance tube replacing the orifice.","The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described features in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof, various aspects are described in connection with optimizing the performance of a PTR, and more particularly a pulse tube cryocooler, by changing the effective length of an inertance tube without changing its actual length. In one aspect, an apparatus is provided including a fluid reservoir containing a working fluid, typically a gas. A pulse tube's working gas is compressed and expanded to create a net heat flow. A pressure wave generator generates pressure waves within the working gas through the pulse tube.","An inertance tube has a proximal end in fluid communication with a hot heat exchanger which is, in turn, in fluid communication with the pulse tube; and a distal section which can fluidly communicate with a fluid reservoir through apertures along its length. The inertance tube and the reservoir cause a phase shift between pressure waves and mass flow in the working gas. A bypass mechanism selectably changes the state of each of the apertures from a selected one to the other of an open and a closed state.","In another aspect, a PTR comprises an electromechanical compressor disposed within a compressor housing. A regenerator is disposed in fluid-tight communication with the compressor and its aftercooler heat exchanger. A pulse tube has a proximal end in fluid-tight communication with a cold heat exchanger, with the latter also being in fluid-tight communication with the regenerator. An inertance tube has a proximal end in fluid-tight communication with a hot heat exchanger, with the latter also being in fluid-tight communication with the other, distal end of the pulse tube.","A fluid reservoir encompasses a distal section of the inertance tube, including the distal end and a plurality of apertures located along the length of the distal section. A sealing mechanism selectably closes the apertures or exposes apertures that were closed. The cold heat exchanger transfers heat from an external device requiring cooling to the pulse tube refrigerator. The hot heat exchanger removes heat from the pulse tube refrigerator.","In an additional aspect, a pulse tube refrigerator comprises a compressor for generating a pressure wave in a working gas within a cylinder. An aftercooler connected to the compressor sucks up and discharges working gas. The aftercooler removes the heat caused by the compression of the working gas sucked into or, alternatively, discharged from the compressor. A regenerator connected to the aftercooler stores the sensible heat of the working gas passing through the regenerator and returns the sensible heat when the working gas inversely passes through the regenerator. A cold heat exchanger is connected to one end of the regenerator. The cold heat exchanger transfers heat from an external device requiring cooling to the pulse tube refrigerator.","A pulse tube is connected to the other end of the cold heat exchanger for which the pulse tube acts as a gas piston which compresses and expands the working gas and creates a heat flow for the cold heat exchanger. A hot heat exchanger for emitting heat is fluidly connected to and located in between the pulse tube and a coiled inertance tube. The inertance tube shifts the phase between the pressure waves and mass flow. Apertures in the inertance tube fluidly communicate the inertance tube with a fluid reservoir. A tuning mechanism selectively seals a subset of the apertures to thereby control the effective length of the inertance tube.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings, and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.","The inertance tube component of a PTR can be used to improve the Carnot efficiency of such a refrigerator due to the inertance tube's ability to control phase shift better than earlier phase shifters, e.g., OPTRs and DIPTRs. A drawback to using a conventional inertance tube in a PTR is that such a tube is generally not able to vary its control of the phase shift between the mass flow and the pressure of the working fluid in the PTR, i.e., the phase shift is generally fixed once the inertance tube length is set. This invention provides a controllable length inertance tube and thus a controllable phase shift.","Phase shift is considered positive when mass flow leads pressure and negative when mass flow lags pressure. To minimize losses in the PTR, a zero phase shift is desired in the regenerator. To achieve the desired zero phase shift requires a negative phase shift on the cold side and a positive phase shift on the hot side of the regenerator. To realize a negative phase shift at the cold side of the regenerator requires a phase shifter capable of shifting the phases of both the mass flow and the pressure of the working fluid. It has been shown that earlier phase shifters were not capable of producing this negative phase shift. The tunable inertance tube of the present invention solves this problem by creating an inertial inductance component in the PTR capable of producing a negative phase shift at the cold side of the regenerator.","The tunable inertance tube of the present invention improves control of the phase shift by, changing the effective length of the inertance tube, which affects the phase shift and acoustic power in the PTR. The acoustic power flow in the x direction, (which is the normal to a plane transverse to the fluid flow in a component of the PTR) is the power averaged over an integral number of cycles of the pressure, p, and the volume flow rate, V, and is mathematically described as the one-half the product of the respective magnitudes of the pressure and volume flow rate, times the phase shift between them, in accordance with the following equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"E","mo":"."},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u222e","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Re","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":["\u2148\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}},{"mi":"Re","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":["\u2148\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"p"},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"V"}],"mi":"cos","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03d5","pV"]}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}},"Pursuant to the foregoing, the PTR designer can more easily tune a PTR to achieve the desired Carnot efficiency and load. Previous designs required time-consuming iterations to obtain the correct inertance tube length, whereas the present innovation allows the PTR designer to more quickly determine the optimal inertance tube length for the operating conditions of the PTR. Due to the complexity of oscillating flow in PTRs, tunable components are necessary to allow for quick modifications to be made during a PTR's operating life to compensate for changes in its performance characteristics.","Oscillating flow is complicated further by the lack of design equations that characterize such fluid flow parameters as friction, mass flow rate, and pressure. These parameters can be accurately calculated for steady flow in pipes, but not for oscillating flow. Design equation models to predict fluid flow parameters for inertance tubes include electrical analogies such as the lumped parameter model and the distributed model. The accuracy of these models is within experimental tolerance, but no models have yet been developed that can accurately characterize the oscillating flow in inertance tubes, although electrical analogies can be useful to approximately describe phase shifts and acoustic power.","Various aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to the drawings. For purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident, however, that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in schematic form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.","Turning to the drawings,  shows PTR  comprising a cryocooler utilizing phase shifter  depicted as tunable inertance tube  having a full length Lthat can be adjusted to adjusted length Lutilizing a bypass mechanism  which includes valve . The valve in this schematic is merely representative of the controller for the variable length inertance tube. This tunable length of inertance tube  is used to control acoustic power and phase shift in PTR . PTR  includes, in series, a pressure wave generator comprised of electromechanical compressor , e.g., a piston-type compressor, aftercooler , regenerator , cold heat exchanger , pulse tube , hot heat exchanger  and fluid reservoir . When in operation, PTR  is filled with working gas or liquid , such as helium.","Regenerator  acts as a thermal sponge, alternately absorbing heat from, and rejecting excess heat to, working gas  as the pressure waves travel back and forth. Regenerator  typically comprises a stack of screens. Packed spheres or parallel plates may also be used instead of stacked screens. Regenerator  has a large heat capacity compared with that of working gas . It has a low thermal conductivity to minimize conduction losses. The operating Carnot efficiency of PTR  depends partly on the Carnot efficiency of the heat transfer between regenerator  and working gas . Thus, where regenerator  comprises a stack of screens, the Carnot efficiency of regenerator  is determined by the screen mesh size, the materials used in fabricating the screens, and the phase shill between mass flow and pressure.","Pulse tube  is a thin-walled tube which has low thermal conductivity. The distal end of pulse tube  is in fluid-tight communication with hot heat exchanger  and then reservoir  via inertance tube . Reservoir  is an otherwise enclosed chamber. For example, reservoir  could enclose inertance tube .","Aftercooler , cold heat exchanger  and hot heat exchanger  are typically stacks of screens of high thermal conductivity, such as screens made of copper. Furthermore, the screens of the aforementioned components could thermally communicate with copper blocks, although any heat exchanger configuration could be used. Aftercooler  and hot heat exchanger  transfer or reject heat from PTR , e.g., to a heat sink, typically by heat conduction, heat pipe transport to a local radiator surface, or by use of a forced-flow coolant loop.","In operation, PTR  is filled with working gas . Compressor  generates pressure waves within working gas  at a predetermined frequency. Each pressure wave travels a portion of the length of PTR  and into reservoir . The interactions of working gas  with the geometry causes the pressure wave to change from one component to another, and may begin to phase shift, depending on the component. Thus, compressor  creates an oscillating pressure wave and acoustic power throughout PTR , with the amplitude and phase shift determined by the PTR components.","The compression of gas  initially increases its temperature to above that of the ambient temperature. However, the heat of compression is substantially removed by aftercooler . Thereafter, gas  is cooled to well below ambient temperature by expansion of gas  as it passes through regenerator . The alternating pressure waves generated by compressor  produce acoustic power which causes pulse tube  to act as a gas piston, where the net effect of the compression and expansion of this gas piston cools cold heat exchanger , and regenerator . The result of this heat pumping action is to lower the temperature of an external device requiring cooling (not shown) which thermally communicates with cold heat exchanger . Meanwhile, part of the acoustic power travels down pulse tube , where part of it is rejected as heat to a heat sink (not shown) by hot heat exchanger  and the remainder is available in inertance tube  and reservoir .","In , PTR  is an exemplary implementation of the present invention, and includes compressor  having first and second portions ,  mounted to opposite sides of structural\/thermal support  having aligned bore  through which pressure wave generator or piston  translates. Structural\/thermal support  functions as an aftercooler to transfer heat from the working gas contained within PTR , generated by compressor , to a heat sink (not shown). First portion  is encompassed by first cylindrical compressor cover  mounted to the same side of structural\/thermal support . Second portion  is encompassed by second cylindrical compressor cover  mounted to the same side of structural\/thermal support , and lying opposite first cylindrical compressor cover .","Compressor covers ,  form a fluid-tight cavity except for upper aperture  that fluidly communicates with the assembly of regenerator , cold heat exchanger , pulse tube  and hot heat exchanger . Inertance tube inlet  fluidly communicates hot heat exchanger  with inertance tube , which is coiled over and around second cylindrical compressor cover . Reservoir cover  encompasses coiled inertance tube  and seals to base ring  which in turn seals to second cylindrical compressor cover  to form fluid reservoir cavity (\u201creservoir\u201d) .","One or a plurality of apertures located along the length of inertance tube  fluidly communicates inertance tube  with reservoir . A bypass (tuning) mechanism comprised of closer assembly  closes or exposes the aperture or at least one of the apertures. In another aspect, sealing mechanism  can be actuated when closer assembly  needs to be moved to change the effective length of the inertance tube. Closer assembly , sealing mechanism , or both, can be passive, only requiring manually applied force for movement to create the sealing of the aperture or apertures, to thereby change the effective length of the inertance tube. Alternatively, active components can be incorporated for moving either closer assembly  or sealing mechanism , such as a reversible motor, for example, either a stepper motor or a controllable motor, connected to closer assembly  or sealing mechanism .","It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that sealing mechanism  can be for one-time use or may be a mechanism capable of being repeatedly engaged. In addition, the one-time use can cause closer assembly  to change from a closed to an open position. Alternatively, the one-time use can cause closer assembly  to change from an open to a closed position. Furthermore, inertance tube  can be routed in other configurations other than a single layer coil as depicted. For instance, at least a portion of inertance tube  can be straight.","It should also be appreciated that various shaped cavities can be formed to form a reservoir that fluidly communicates with a distal section of an inertance tube, in particular with an aperture in the inertance tube. In addition, while tubing is depicted for clarity, it should be noted that an inertance tube can be a fluid passage formed in an otherwise solid material such as a manifold assembly.","With reference to , in one illustrative aspect, tunable inertance tube  is shown for fluidly communicating with hot heat exchanger . Inertance tube  is spirally wound coil  lying inside of reservoir  (not shown in ). Spirally wound inertance tube  includes machined holes  at various locations along its length. Any of holes  can then be sealed or covered to allow for the working gas to flow to the next hole . The effective length of the inertance tube can be changed by keeping previously covered holes  sealed and covering the next hole .","In some implementations, the working gas will attempt to escape to the next hole , and there can be turbulence losses due to the fluid flow past the covered hole  if not completely sealed. Thus the effective length is, in part, a function of the losses due to the turbulence created at each \u2018sealed\u2019 hole . Since inertance tube  is enclosed within reservoir , the working gas will flow out of inertance tube  and interact with the fluid flow in the reservoir.","Various structures or mechanisms may be used to cover, i.e., close, holes . Plugs or covers can be used to seal a hole while allowing the working gas to flow to the next hole. The plugs or covers can be either passively or actively maintained in the open or closed position. To minimize the amount of work to keep holes  open or closed, a passive design can be used. In the illustrative depiction, this can be achieved with slider mechanism  that closes the desired holes  by rotating around inertance tube  and creating an effective seal or actuating (closing) the seal assemblies (shown in ).","For an integrated slider\/seal assembly, a simple solution is to use a sleeve comprised of tubing  having an inner diameter that is slightly larger than the inertance tube's outer diameter. The integrated slider\/seal assembly  allows for hole  to be covered by the slightly larger inner diameter of tubing  of integrated slider\/seal assembly  while allowing other holes  to remain open. The slight gap between the outer diameter of inertance tube  and the inner diameter of tubing  should be minimized to allow the working gas in inertance tube  to flow to the next open hole  without significantly affecting fluid flow in inertance tube .","Armature  rotates integrated slider\/seal assembly . More particularly, radial arm  is attached to externally accessible rotatable shaft , for rotating armature . For instance, a stepper motor (not shown) can selectively rotate shaft  and incorporate a locking feature.","In , tunable inertance tube assembly  comprises coiled inertance tube  having laterally aligned holes  that can be selectably sealed with slider mechanism  that slides (rotates) over seal assembly  for each of holes , to open or close each of holes  and maintain each seal assembly  in the desired open or closed position. Seal assembly  can be a separate assembly from slider mechanism , with each of holes  being connected to a dedicated seal assembly , or seal assemblies  can be an integral part of slider mechanism . Each seal assembly  can seal one of holes  while allowing the fluid in inertance tube  to flow to the next hole . Slider mechanism  holds seal assembly  shut to close holes  that need to be closed while allowing for seal assemblies  at open holes  to remain open.","With particular reference to a detailed depiction at , staggered leading edge  of slider mechanism  contacts valve arm , which is pivotally attached between tabs  that are, in turn, fixedly attached to inertance tube . Rotation of slider mechanism  advances staggered leading edge  over one of valve arms  and thereby applies the force necessary to close the valve arm before sequentially reaching another valve arm  of another seal assembly . The shape of inwardly directed face  of valve arm  seals the respective hole  while being concave to avoid interfering with flow through the inertance tube . A flexible sealing material can be attached to either the tubing at holes  or seal assembly  to provide a better seal, created by the compressive force applied by leading edge . Springs (not shown) can be attached between valve arms  and tabs  to apply a spring force, to keep valve arms  in an open position when leading edge  is not over valve arms .","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.","The previous description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, nature and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when considered in conjunction with the following drawings, in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
