---
title: Cloud-based translation service for multi-function peripheral
abstract: Techniques are provided for translating a document that was scanned by a multi-function peripheral (MFP). A server within a computing cloud receives an MFP identifier and processed scan data that results from optical character recognition and/or natural language translation having been performed on scan data produced by the MFP. In response to the receipt of the processed scan data at the server, the server selects a set of rules that is mapped to a context to which the MFP identifier is mapped. Corrected processed scan data is generated by applying the set of rules to the processed scan data that was received by the server. Manual corrections made to the corrected processed scan data may be used to update the set of rules so that those corrections are also made to other processed scan data produced by MFPs having identifiers mapped to the same context.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996351&OS=08996351&RS=08996351
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08996351
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110824
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to a technique for translating, in a computing cloud, a document that was scanned by a multi-function peripheral.","Multi-function peripherals (MFPs), such as those manufactured and sold by Ricoh Corporation, are capable of performing a variety of different functions relative to paper documents. Such MFPs typically are capable of scanning documents, printing documents, copying documents, stapling documents, punching holes in documents, storing digital copies of scanned documents, etc.","Some MFPs even have the built-in capability to perform automatic processing of the digital copies of the documents that they scan. U.S. Pat. No. 7,769,249 (issued Aug. 3, 2010), assigned to Ricoh Company, Ltd., describes a document optical character recognition (OCR)-implementing device. The device includes a reading part that is configured to read a document and form a recognition image. The device additionally includes an obtaining part that is configured to perform image processing of the recognition image. The device additionally includes OCR engines that are configured to perform a character recognition process on the recognition image. Unfortunately, automatically performed OCR processing is prone to errors, and the results are often unsatisfactory to users.","The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued, but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated, it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.","Techniques are provided for translating a document that was scanned by a multi-function peripheral (MFP). A server within a computing cloud receives (a) an MFP identifier of an MFP and (b) processed scan data that resulted from optical character recognition and\/or natural language translation having been performed on scan data originally produced by the MFP. In response to the receipt of the processed scan data at the server, the server selects, from a group of context-specific rules sets, a particular context-specific rule set that is mapped to a context to which the MFP identifier is mapped; different context-specific rule sets may be mapped to different contexts, and different MFP identifiers may be mapped to different contexts. Corrected processed scan data is generated by applying the selected set of context-specific rules to the processed scan data that was received by the server. User-made manual corrections later made to the corrected processed scan data may be used to update the selected set of context-specific rules (while leaving other unselected sets of context-specific rules unaffected) so that those corrections are also made to other processed scan data produced by MFPs having identifiers mapped to the same context.","In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","General Overview","Using techniques described herein, a multi-function peripheral (MFP) scans a document and transmits the resulting scanned data to a server that resides within a computing cloud. The server (potentially acting in concert with other specialized servers also located in the computing cloud) performs services relative to the scanned data on behalf of the MFP. For example, such services may include optical character recognition and natural language translation relative to the written content contained in the scanned data. The MFP is associated with a unique device identifier that is only associated with that MFP and no other device that utilizes the cloud-based services. Using the MFP's device identifier, the cloud-based services can specially tailor the processing that is performed relative to data that is received from the MFP. Using the MFP's device identifier, the cloud-based services can classify (e.g., by purpose) scan data received from the MFP. The classification adds context that can be used to enhance services performed for the MFP (and for other MFPs having similar contexts); the enhancement may involve a more accurate optical character recognition and a more accurate natural language translation. Consequently, optical character recognition accuracy and natural language translation accuracy increases for all MFPs having similar purposes and providing similar types of documents.","After corrections have been automatically made to OCR processing results and natural language translation processing results using MFP context-specific rules that are stored in a database, users are given the opportunity to further correct the OCR processing results and natural language translation processing results. In one embodiment, these manually made corrections are used to update the MFP context-specific rules in the database so that automatic corrections made to future documents using those rules will be even more accurate.","Cloud-Based Translation Service System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","102","102","102","102","102","102","102","102","102","102","102"]},"Through the graphical user interface provided via the browser application, MFP  permits a user to instruct MFP  to transmit such a digital copy to a Software As A Service (SAAS) server . SAAS server  does not reside in the same location as MFP . SAAS server  is considered to be in a computing cloud , and provides services to numerous different devices all over the world. SAAS server  typically is not owned, operated, or maintained by the owners, operators, or users of MFP . MFP  is only one of the devices to which SAAS server  provides services. MFP  interacts with SAAS server  over a series of networks which may include local area networks (LANs) and, typically, the Internet. Thus, MFP  sends data to SAAS server  using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and\/or the secure version of that protocol (HTTPS).","Along with the digital copy of the scanned document that MFP  transmits to SAAS server , MFP  additionally transmits device identification data to SAAS server . The device identification data uniquely identifies MFP  such that no other device in the world that communicates with SAAS server  possesses the same device identifier. MFP  may locally store its device identifier, which may be configured by users of MFP , so that MFP  can transmit its device identifier to SAAS server  whenever MFP  requests services from SAAS server . In addition to the scanned document data and the device identification data, MFP  may send, to SAAS server , instructions indicating the kinds of services that MFP  wants from cloud . Such services may be selected by a user of MFP  using the graphical user interface that MFP  displays via the browser interface. Such services may include, for example, optical character recognition services and natural language translation services. For example, a user of MFP  may indicate that he wants the contents of the scanned document to be translated from a source natural language into a target natural language that differs from the source natural language.","SAAS server  interacts with other servers in computing cloud . In one embodiment, SAAS server  interacts with these other servers using application programming interfaces (APIs) that those other servers expose to external entities. SAAS server  may utilize the services offered by these other servers, for example, by invoking methods of those APIs with the appropriate parameters. In one embodiment, the other servers whose services SAAS server  uses include an optical character recognition (OCR) server  and a natural language translation server . Using an OCR API exposed by OCR server , SAAS server  may instruct OCR server  to perform OCR services relative to the scanned image data that SAAS server  received from MFP . The result of the performance of OCR upon the scanned image data is output that specifies sequences of words, comprised of characters, in a natural language. SAAS server  also may instruct a translation server , also in computing cloud , to perform natural language translation on the output produced by OCR server . SAAS server  may use a translation API exposed by translation server  to tell translation server  the source and target natural languages for translation. Along with other data that SAAS server  passes to OCR server  and translation server , SAAS server  may pass the unique device identifier that SAAS server  received from MFP  in connection with the scanned image data.","In one embodiment, SAAS server  acts as an intermediate broker for all of the other servers in computing cloud . For example, SAAS server  may send scanned image data to OCR server , receive processed data (i.e., optically-recognized character strings) from OCR server , send that processed data to translation server , and receive further processed data (i.e., the character strings translated into a different natural language) from translation server . In an alternative embodiment, however, SAAS server  instead instructs each server regarding the next step in a chain of services. In such an embodiment, OCR server  may react to these instructions by transmitting its processed output data directly to translation server  without further interaction with SAAS server . Such instructions, in one embodiment, also include instructions regarding the final processing of the processed data after it has been through the entire server chain. Such instructions may indicate that the processed data is to be e-mailed to a specified e-mail address, and\/or printed by a specified printer with a specified Internet address, and\/or saved within a specified directory on a specified storage server at a specified Internet address. In one embodiment, these instructions are initially specified by the user of MFP  through the graphical user interface, and are passed along from server to server in computing cloud  along with the scan data and the unique identifier of MFP . The final server in the chain may carry out the disposition instructions for the finally processed data (e.g., data that has undergone both OCR and natural language translation).","Setting Up the MFP","In one embodiment, an administrator of MFP  initially sets up MFP  with configuration information that is then stored locally in the memory of MFP . MFP  contains a database that stores configuration information. Among other information that the administrator inputs into this database while configuring MFP  is context data that identifies the purpose for which the MFP  is used. Such context data may identify the department that primarily uses MFP , for example. Under these circumstances, the context data might indicate that MFP  is used by an engineering department or a marketing department. As will be seen from the discussion below, the services that are provided to MFP  by the servers in computing cloud  may be narrowed, refined, and specialized over time based on the context that is represented within the context data with which MFP  is initially configured. Additionally or alternatively, the context data may specify a device type of MFP .","Additionally, in one embodiment, the administrator of MFP  registers MFP  with SAAS server  in computing cloud . Such registration typically includes the assignment of the unique device identifier to MFP , which MFP  then sends, at registration time, to SAAS server  for storage. The registration also includes the transmission of the assigned context data to SAAS server  for storage. SAAS server  stores a mapping in between the unique device identifier of MFP  and the context data that indicates the context or purpose of MFP . The mapping of the device identifier to the context data defines which set of rules will be associated with MFP . Such rules may be used by various servers in computing cloud  to increase the accuracy of the services that they provide to MFP . This is because when such a cloud server knows the context of MFP , it is able to apply rules (e.g., OCR rules and\/or natural language translation rules) that are appropriate specifically for that context and possibly to no other context.","Example User Workflow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["202","102","204","106","206","108","208"]},"Example System Flow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 3-5","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["302","102"]},"In block , the MFP pre-processes the scanned image to improve contrast, correct skew, etc. In block , the MFP then feeds the image into a standard OCR engine within computing cloud  (e.g., OCR server ), potentially via SAAS server . In block , Process A, discussed in greater detail below in connection with , is performed. Based on the MFP device identifier, specific rules may be applied to update the results of the OCR processing. Control then passes to block  of .","Referring now to , in block , a user interface is provided to the user so that the user can review both the original document and the results of the OCR processing. The user is given the option to verify and correct the OCR results online. If the user chooses to exercise this option, control passes to block . If the user chooses not to exercise this option, then control passes to block . Any changes that the user does make are fed back into the database on the MFP. These changes are saved in association with the MFP's context data. The document is saved so that translation can begin.","In block , Process B, discussed in greater detail below in connection with , is performed. Control then passes to block .","In block , the processed data resulting from the OCR processing and any post-processing that has been performed on those OCR results are fed into a translation service (e.g., translation server ) within computing cloud . In block , Process C, discussed in greater detail below in connection with , is performed. The results of the translation service are post-processed based on MFP-specific rules. Control then passes to block  of .","Referring now to , in block , a user interface is provided to the user so that the user can review both the original document and the results of the natural language translation processing. The user is given the option to verify and correct the translation results online. If the user chooses to exercise this option, then control passes to block . If the user chooses not to exercise this option, then control passes to block . Any changes that the user does make are fed back into the database on the MFP. These changes are saved in association with the MFP's context data. The document is saved.","In block , Process D, discussed in greater detail below in connection with , is performed. Control then passes to block .","In block , the user is given the option to print and\/or e-mail the translated document, or to save the translated document for later printing and\/or e-mailing. In block , the technique illustrated in  ends.","Process A\u2014Context-Specific Automatic OCR Correction",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIGS. 3-5"],"b":"104"},"In block , the OCR document and the MFP's device identifier are obtained. The OCR document may be obtained from OCR server , for example. Document details for the document can be found in a \u201cDocument\u201d table in a database. Context-specific details for the MFP can be found using the MFP's device identifier in a \u201cDevice Type\u201d table in a database.","In block , OCR rules for the MFP are obtained from a database. The rules applicable to the MFP may be found in an \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table in a database. The specific rules to be applied are associated in the table with the MFP's context data.","In block , a list of text patterns to search for in the OCR document is created. The list of patterns is constructed based on the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d that are associated with the MFP's context data. For example, if the MFP's context data indicates an \u201cengineering\u201d context, then all of the rules in the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table that are associated with the \u201cengineering\u201d context and the OCR document's language are selected for application to the OCR document. Generally, each rule specifies a set of characters that are to be replaced (the text patterns) and a set of characters to replace the characters that are to be replaced.","In block , text in the OCR document that matches text to be replaced, as indicated in the list of text patterns created in block , is automatically replaced with the corresponding replacement text that is mapped, in the rules, to the matching text. In one embodiment, replacement rules are applied based on priority or importance. Some rules may be ranked higher than others. Higher-ranked rules are applied before lower-ranked rules are. Each rule in the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table may be associated with a \u201cUsage Count\u201d field. The value stored in this field may be used to determine a rule's rank. In one embodiment, if two or more rules conflict, then \u201cLeft Text\u201d and \u201cRight Text\u201d fields in the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table are used to select one of the conflicting rules whose application is most suitable.","Process B\u2014Updating OCR Correction Rules",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIGS. 3-5"]},"In block , the document identifier and the MFP's device identifier are obtained. Document details for the document can be found in a \u201cDocument\u201d table in a database. Context-specific details for the MFP can be found using the MFP's device identifier in a \u201cDevice Type\u201d table in a database. In block , the original scanned document and the OCR document are shown to the user side-by-side. For example, these documents may be shown to the user side-by-side in a browser application executing on the user's client personal computer. In block , the user uses the user interface (e.g., provided via the browser application) to perform manual corrections to the OCR document. In block , the user is given the option to save or abandon the corrections made. If the user opts to save the corrections, then control passes to block . If the user opts to abandon the corrections, then control passes to block .","In block , the side-by-side view of the documents is exited without saving the corrections and without updating the OCR replacement rules. Alternatively, in block , the corrections made are stored in the database. The corrections are stored in the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table. The corrections are associated in the table with the MFP's context data. As is discussed above in connection with , these are the rules that are applied in \u201cProcess A\u201d to improve the accuracy of optical character recognition.","Process C\u2014Context-Specific Automatic Translation Correction",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIGS. 3-5"],"b":"104"},"In block , the translated document and the MFP's device identifier are obtained. The translated document may be obtained from translation server , for example. Document details for the document can be found in a \u201cDocument\u201d table in a database. Context-specific details for the MFP can be found using the MFP's device identifier in a \u201cDevice Type\u201d table in a database.","In block , translation rules for the MFP are obtained from a database. Other details about the MFP may be obtained from the database as well. The rules applicable to the MFP may be found in a \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table in a database. The specific rules to be applied are associated in the table with the MFP's context data.","In block , a list of text patterns to search for in the translated document is created. The list of patterns is constructed based on the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d that are associated with the MFP's context data. For example, if the MFP's context data indicates an \u201cengineering\u201d context, then all of the rules in the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table that are associated with the \u201cengineering\u201d context and the translated document's language are selected for application to the translated document. Generally, each rule specifies a set of characters that are to be replaced (the text patterns) and a set of characters to replace the characters that are to be replaced.","In block , text in the translated document that matches text to be replaced, as indicated in the list of text patterns created in block , is automatically replaced with the corresponding replacement text that is mapped, in the rules, to the matching text. In one embodiment, replacement rules are applied based on priority or importance. Some rules may be ranked higher than others. Higher-ranked rules are applied before lower-ranked rules are. Each rule in the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table may be associated with a \u201cUsage Count\u201d field. The value stored in this field may be used to determine a rule's rank. In one embodiment, if two or more rules conflict, then \u201cLeft Text\u201d and \u201cRight Text\u201d fields in the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table are used to select one of the conflicting rules whose application is most suitable.","Process D\u2014Updating Translation Correction Rules",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIGS. 3-5"]},"In block , the document identifier and the MFP's device identifier are obtained. Document details for the document can be found in a \u201cDocument\u201d table in a database. Context-specific details for the MFP can be found using the MFP's device identifier in a \u201cDevice Type\u201d table in a database. In block , the original scanned document and the translated document are shown to the user side-by-side. For example, these documents may be shown to the user side-by-side in a browser application executing on the user's client personal computer. In block , the user uses the user interface (e.g., provided via the browser application) to perform manual corrections to the translated document. In block , the user is given the option to save or abandon the corrections made. If the user opts to save the corrections, then control passes to block . If the user opts to abandon the corrections, then control passes to block .","In block , the side-by-side view of the documents is exited without saving the corrections and without updating the translation replacement rules. Alternatively, in block , the corrections made are stored in the database. The corrections are stored in the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table. The corrections are associated in the table with the MFP's context data. As is discussed above in connection with , these are the rules that are applied in \u201cProcess C\u201d to improve the accuracy of natural language translation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1002","1004"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10","FIG. 11"]},"Example Database Schema","As is discussed above, in one embodiment, a database (potentially stored within SAAS server ) contains multiple tables. These tables contain MFP context-specific information, context-specific OCR correction rules, and context-specific translation correction rules, for example. Discussed below are the structures and formats of tables that are stored in the database according to one embodiment.","The \u201cDeviceType\u201d table stores the known MFP contexts and identifiers associated with those contexts. As is discussed above, an administrator specifies, for each MFP, a context classification that indicates that MFP's device or purpose. Such context classifications may include \u201cengineering,\u201d \u201cmarketing,\u201d or \u201clegal,\u201d for example, if these are the departments that primarily use the corresponding MFPs. Because each MFP is associated with a context, and because correction rules are context-specific, the correction rules that are applied to documents scanned by one MFP may differ from correction rules that are applied to documents scanned by another MFP. For each MFP, the correction rules that are applied to documents scanned by that MFP are specifically tailored for correcting the kinds of words that are likely to be found in the vocabulary or jargon that is peculiar to that MFP's context. Because users having the MFP's same context make corrections that are used to update the context-specific rules, the rules for each context are likely to become even more context-specific and produce better OCR and natural language translation corrections for those contexts.","Table 1 shows an example of the structure of the \u201cDeviceType\u201d table. The device type classification field stores an MFP context and the Device Type ID field stores a context identifier for that context. Thus, the \u201cDeviceType\u201d table stores the universe of existing contexts that may be assigned to MFPs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DEVICETYPE"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Device Type ID (long)","Device Type Classification (varchar 1000)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The \u201cMFPDeviceInfo\u201d table stores the context for each MFP. Users register each MFP in part by selecting, from the existing universe of recognized contexts, a specific context (or device type) for that MFP. If the existing universe of recognized contexts (contained in the \u201cDeviceType\u201d table) does not include the desired context, then users can ask an administrator to create a new context in the \u201cDeviceType\u201d table. Table 2 shows an example of the structure of the \u201cMFPDeviceInfo\u201d table. In one embodiment, it is possible for the same MFP to be associated with multiple different contexts in the \u201cMFPDeviceInfo\u201d table. This may be the case when multiple different departments share the same MFP. The \u201cMFP Device ID\u201d field stores the unique device identifier for the MFP. The \u201cDevice Type ID\u201d field contains the context identifier that identifies the context for that MFP. The context matching the context identifier can be looked up using the context identifier in the \u201cDeviceType\u201d table discussed above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"MFPDEVICEINFO"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Device Type ID (long)","MFP Device ID (varchar 1000)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The \u201cDocument\u201d table contains a separate entry for each document that is scanned by an MFP. Thus, in one embodiment, whenever an MFP scans a document, a new entry is created in this table. When a particular document has OCR processing or natural language translation processing performed upon it, the entry for the particular document is automatically updated to indicate the location of the corresponding OCR document and\/or translation document. Table 3 shows an example of the structure of the \u201cDocument\u201d table. The \u201cDevice Type ID\u201d field indicates the context identifier for the context of the MFP that scanned the original document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DOCUMENT"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"9"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Document","Device","Original","Translated","Original","OCR","Translated","Subject","Misc Info"]},{"entry":["ID (long)","Type ID","Document","Document","Document","Document","Document","Field","(varchar"]},{"entry":[{},"(long)","Language","Language","Location","Location","Location","(varchar","1000)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(varchar","(varchar","(varchar","(varchar","(varchar","1000)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1000)","1000)","1000)","1000)","1000)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"9","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table contains the text replacement rules that are applicable to OCR documents. In one embodiment, each rule specifies at least a set of characters to be replaced and a corresponding set of replacement characters to replace the former set. The rules are used by \u201cProcess A,\u201d discussed above, to correct OCR document errors automatically. Corrections that users manually make in \u201cProcess B,\u201d discussed above, are used to generate new entries in the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table. Table 4 shows an example of the structure of the \u201cOCR Rules\u201d table. The \u201cUsage Count\u201d field is updated each time that a rule is applied to an OCR document. As is discussed above, a rule's usage count may be used to determine the priority of that rule's application relative to other rules. Rules with higher usage counts may be applied before rules with lower usage counts. In one embodiment, only rules having the same specified language as the OCR document's original language are applied to that OCR document. In one embodiment, only rules having the same \u201cDevice Type ID\u201d (which indicates MFP context) as the OCR document are applied to the OCR document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"OCRRULES"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"9"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Language","Device","Original","Left Text","Right","Replacement","Usage","Subject","Misc Info"]},{"entry":["(varchar","Type ID","Text","(varchar","Text","Text","Count","Field","(varchar"]},{"entry":["1000)","(long)","(varchar","1000)","(varchar","(varchar","(long)","(varchar","1000)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1000)",{},"1000)","1000)",{},"1000)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"9","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table contains the text replacement rules that are applicable to translated documents. In one embodiment, each rule specifies at least a set of characters to be replaced and a corresponding set of replacement characters to replace the former set. The rules are used by \u201cProcess C,\u201d discussed above, to correct translated document errors automatically. Corrections that users manually make in \u201cProcess D,\u201d discussed above, are used to generate new entries in the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table. Table 5 shows an example of the structure of the \u201cTranslation Rules\u201d table. The \u201cUsage Count\u201d field is updated each time that a rule is applied to a translated document. As is discussed above, a rule's usage count may be used to determine the priority of that rule's application relative to other rules. Rules with higher usage counts may be applied before rules with lower usage counts. In one embodiment, only rules having either the same specified original language as the document's original language or the same specified translated language as the document's translated language are applied to that translated document. In one embodiment, only rules having the same \u201cDevice Type ID\u201d (which indicates MFP context) as the translated document are applied to the translated document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"TRANSLATIONRULES"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Original","Translated","Device","Original","Left","Right","Replacement","Usage","Subject","Misc"]},{"entry":["Document","Document","Type","Text","Text","Text","Text","Count","Field","Info"]},{"entry":["Language","Language","ID","(varchar","(varchar","(varchar","(varchar","(long)","(varchar","(varchar"]},{"entry":["(varchar","(varchar","(long)","1000)","1000)","1000)","1000)",{},"1000)","1000)"]},{"entry":["1000)","1000)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1202","1204","1206","1208","1210"]},"Hardware Overview","According to one embodiment, the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special-purpose computing devices. The special-purpose computing devices may be hard-wired to perform the techniques, or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques, or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware, memory, other storage, or a combination. Such special-purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard-wired logic, ASICs, or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special-purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems, portable computer systems, handheld devices, networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard-wired and\/or program logic to implement the techniques.","For example,  is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system  upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system  includes a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a hardware processor  coupled with bus  for processing information. Hardware processor  may be, for example, a general purpose microprocessor.","Computer system  also includes a main memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory  also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions, when stored in non-transitory storage media accessible to processor , render computer system  into a special-purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.","Computer system  further includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to bus  for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, is provided and coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions.","Computer system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.","Computer system  may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard-wired logic, one or more ASICs or FPGAs, firmware and\/or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system  to be a special-purpose machine. According to one embodiment, the techniques herein are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another storage medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.","The term \u201cstorage media\u201d as used herein refers to any non-transitory media that store data and\/or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non-volatile media and\/or volatile media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, solid state drive, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic data storage medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical data storage medium, any physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, NVRAM, any other memory chip or cartridge.","Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example, transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio-wave and infra-red data communications.","Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra-red transmitter to convert the data to an infra-red signal. An infra-red detector can receive the data carried in the infra-red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor .","Computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are example forms of transmission media.","Computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface .","The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","In the foregoing specification, embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention, and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention, is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application, in the specific form in which such claims issue, including any subsequent correction."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIGS. 3-5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
