---
title: System and method managing hotspot network access of a plurality of devices
abstract: There is provided a system and method for managing hotspot network access for a plurality of devices. There is provided a mobile broadband hotspot comprising a processor configured to detect an occurrence of an event, determine a device from the plurality of devices to receive a notification of the event, determine a policy directed to the device, and execute the policy on the mobile broadband hotspot or on the device. Accordingly, by providing notifications of events to appropriate devices of the network, a better user experience is maintained. Moreover, the mobile broadband hotspot may transmit event notification to specific devices that may be affected by the execution of the policy in order to provide a better user experience for the users of those devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989159&OS=08989159&RS=08989159
owner: Smith Micro Software, Inc.
number: 08989159
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/389,169 filed on Oct. 1, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to hotspot network access. More particularly, the present invention relates to managing hotspot network access of a plurality of devices.","2. Background Art","The use of mobile broadband hotspots has further increased the ubiquity and convenience of receiving wireless broadband access. The Internet access speed for mobile broadband hotspots is continuously improving and is presently conforming to the fourth-generation wireless telephone technology (4G) standard. A mobile broadband hotspot allows multiple devices to connect to the mobile broadband hotspot through Wi-Fi signals, Bluetooth signals, or other types of wireless signals. As a result, many devices may connect to a nearby mobile broadband hotspot for instant access to the Internet. Since popular mobile devices such as smartphones, for example, may be utilized as mobile broadband hotspots, the distribution of wireless Internet through mobile broadband hotspots is more prevalent and convenient.","Oftentimes, the Internet service provider, mobile broadband hotspot, or devices connected to the mobile broadband hotspot may experience events that will cause the mobile broadband hotspot to perform poorly. The mobile broadband hotspot may be reaching a low battery power state resulting in the device soon being shut off, too many mobile devices may be connected to the mobile broadband hotspot thereby decreasing the bandwidth for each mobile device, or the device may suddenly experience low signal strength from the Internet service provider. The occurrence of these events may reduce the quality of service for the end users of the mobile broadband hotspot. For example, the signal strength provided by the Internet service provider to the mobile broadband hotspot may decrease suddenly and without warning or the coverage could drop from 4G to 3G, and this decrease may negatively affect the quality of services for the other mobile devices connected to the mobile broadband hotspot.","Unfortunately, the end users experiencing a decrease in the quality of service provided by the mobile broadband hotspot are not presented with specific information concerning the decrease. Without receiving adequate information concerning the causes of the reduction of the quality of services and without being presented any opportunity to rectify the problem, the end users of the mobile broadband hotspots may simply become frustrated with the mobile broadband hotspot service.","Accordingly, there is a need to overcome the drawbacks and deficiencies in the art by improving the information shared with users regarding the reduction in the quality of service in order to maintain a better user experience.","There is provided systems and methods for managing hotspot network access of a plurality of devices, substantially as shown in and\/or described in connection with at least one of the figures, as set forth more completely in the claims.","The present application is directed to a system and method for managing a hotspot network access and for managing the billing for that hotspot network access. The following description contains specific information pertaining to the implementation of the present invention. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed in the present application. Moreover, some of the specific details of the invention are not discussed in order not to obscure the invention. The specific details not described in the present application are within the knowledge of a person of ordinary skill in the art. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary embodiments of the invention. To maintain brevity, other embodiments of the invention, which use the principles of the present invention, are not specifically described in the present application and are not specifically illustrated by the present drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","101","102","103","150","180","101","104","107","108","104","105","120","121","106","102","109","110","113","110","111","106","103","115","114","118","114","116","106","106","106","106","111","105","116","106","106","106","101","102","101","103","102","103","101"],"i":["b","a","c","a","b ","c ","a","b","c"]},"Displays , , and  may each comprise a LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor that may also serve as a touch-sensitive input device. In other embodiments, displays , , and  may be any type of monitor. While not shown in , administrative device  and target device  may have additional input devices, such as keyboards or optical mice, connected to administrative device  and target device , for example. Central billing server  includes billing processor  and billing memory .","Administrative device  and target device  may comprise any type of mobile device, including smartphones, laptops, or personal digital assistants (PDAs), for example. In other embodiments, administrative device  and target device  may also be devices such as printers or fax machines that generally do not have displays, for example. Mobile broadband hotspot  may comprise any type of dedicated hotspot device. In other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot  may comprise a smartphone, laptop, PDA or any other mobile device capable of being configured to function as a hotspot device. Central billing server  may comprise any type of server. While central billing server  of  is shown to be separate from mobile broadband hotspot , in alternative embodiments, central billing server  may comprise a local database on mobile broadband hotspot , thereby allowing central billing sever  to be integrated within mobile broadband hotspot  to be integrated with mobile broadband hotspot . Network  may comprise any type of network, such as the Internet, 3G or 4G mobile broadband network or other wireless network, for example. Administrative device  and target device  may detect and connect to mobile broadband hotspot  through a wireless network conforming to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 standard, such as Wi-Fi, or a Bluetooth, or any other type of wireless network conforming to some other wireless protocol transmitted from mobile broadband hotspot . In other embodiments, administrative device  and target device  may be physically connected to mobile broadband hotspot  through a wire or other connection cables as well. Once properly connected to mobile broadband hotspot , administrative device  and target device  may have access to network . While only a single administrative device  and target device  are shown in , in alternative embodiments, any number of administrative devices and\/or target devices may be connected to mobile broadband hotspot .","In the present embodiment, processors  and , device processor  and billing processor  may comprise any type of processor, including, but not limited to, central processing units (CPUs). In the present embodiment, memory , memory , memory , and billing memory  may comprise any type of machine-readable storage device such as a volatile or non-volatile memory. Hotspot module  may comprise any type of software application implemented to allow mobile broadband hotspot  to manage network  access by detecting the occurrences of events that may affect or potentially affect the performance of mobile broadband hotspot . Hotspot module  may be configured to recognize these events and, subsequently, to instruct processor  to execute policies in response to recognizing any events. In the present embodiment, hotspot module  may be used to allow mobile broadband hotspot  to determine and set permission levels for all devices, including administrative device  and target device , for example. Administrative device  and other devices with administrative permission levels may also change the permission levels of other connected devices with lower than administrative permission.","Network policy  may comprise a data file containing network management policies, events, permissions and associations between these event types and polices. Network policy  may be an updatable file. Administrative devices such as administrative device , for example, may also reconfigure or update network policy . Moreover, device management servers may remotely reconfigure or update network policy  through network  or directly to the mobile broadband hotspot . Thus, network policy  may be modified by local devices granted with administrative privileges or by other properly privileged remote devices through network . Network policy  may be securely stored within memory  or directly to the mobile broadband hotspot , such as by an IT administrator or Mobile Network Operator (MNO). For example, network policy  may be encrypted. In the present embodiment, hotspot module  may also create billing policies of data usages from devices connected to mobile broadband hotspot . Billing policy  may comprise a data file comprising present billing policies for generating billing statements for individual data usages.","In the present embodiment, mobile broadband hotspot  may create a user profile for each initial user. The user profile may include a credential comprising identification information used to identify an individual user regardless of the device the user may be using to connect to mobile broadband hotspot . Upon receiving a request to connect to mobile broadband hotspot , processor , executing hotspot module , may present on the display of the connecting device a request for a credential input. The request may ask a user with a prior user profile to input the credential information such as a username, password, device identification numbers, personal billing information, digital certificate, and other pertinent information. A new user without a previously created user profile on mobile broadband hotspot  may be asked to create a new user profile comprising new credential information. The user profiles, including associated credentials, may be securely stored within memory .","Information in a user profile, including the credential, may be authenticated through billing policy . Billing policy  may comprise a plurality of existing credentials. A returning user's credential may be required to match a credential in billing policy , wherein the billing policy  may access a local billing database or third party billing database to authenticate the user's credentials. Mobile broadband hotspot  may also ensure that the credential has no billing issues or concerns that need to be resolved. For example, billing policy  may indicate that a credential has failed to pay for previous data usage and may cause hotspot module  to block access to network  for that credential. Processor , executing hotspot module , upon receiving an input of a credential may perform an authentication of the credential using billing policy . Accordingly, billing policy  may comprise one or more credentials within the billing policy  that may be denied access to mobile broadband hotspot . In other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot  may transmit a credential to central billing server  for similar authentication.","Device modules  and  may comprise applications that are delivered to memory  and memory , respectively, upon a successful connection of administrative device  and target device  to mobile broadband hotspot . Device modules  and  may be executed to allow administrative device  and target device  to interact with mobile broadband hotspot , including receiving notifications of events and billing statements from mobile broadband hotspot . In the present embodiment, hotspot module  and device modules  and  may conform to similar APIs , and , respectively. By conforming to similar APIs, hotspot module  and device modules  and  may communicate with each other even with modification to hotspot module , device modules  or . Different permission levels granted to administrative device  and target device  may result in different implementations to device modules  and .","In the present embodiment, mobile broadband hotspot  may grant one of five permission levels to a mobile device connecting to mobile broadband hotspot . The five permission levels may be comprised of administrative permission, trusted client permission, guest permission, blocked and blacklisted. Only devices granted administrative permission, trusted client permission, or guest permission may access the Internet via network . Devices granted blocked permission level may also connect to mobile broadband hotspot but may be prohibited from consuming any bandwidth, thereby effectively blocked from accessing the Internet via network . Thus, a blocked device may still receive any alert notifications or messages intended for the blocked devices. Devices granted blacklisted permission cannot access network  or connect to mobile broadband hotspot . Devices granted trusted client permission may have more privileges than devices with guest permission but less privileges than devices granted administrative permission. Devices with administrative permission, for example, may be allowed to modify network policy , billing policy , change the permissions levels of other devices, or reject authentication attempts by other mobile devices attempting to connected to mobile broadband hotspot . Administrative devices  may also set the time limit for network  access of other devices with lower permission levels In other embodiments, more or less types of permission levels may be implemented as desired.","In one embodiment, mobile broadband hotspot  may grant administrative device  with administrative permission and may grant target device  with guest permission. Accordingly, administrative device  may have more privileges than target device . While  shows both administrative device  and mobile broadband hotspot  as separate devices, in other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot  and administrative device  may be integrated into a single mobile device, such as a smartphone also functioning as a hotspot device, for example.","In the present embodiment, processor , executing hotspot module , may be configured to detect and monitor the occurrence of an event, the event being any event that may affect or potentially affect the quality of service given by mobile broadband hotspot  or operation thereof, thereby affecting the quality of service to administrative device , target device , or any other of the plurality of devices connected to mobile broadband hotspot . An event may comprise a lowering of the battery level of mobile broadband hotspot  to a predetermined amount, an initial connection from another device to mobile broadband hotspot , a downgrading or upgrading of the broadband connectivity of mobile broadband hotspot  (e.g., 4G coverage downgraded to 3G coverage), or simply a mobile device connecting to mobile broadband hotspot .","An event may also occur when a device, such as target device  without administrative permission, connected to mobile broadband hotspot  consumes a percentage of the bandwidth that exceeds a pre-determined percentage set for that device. For example, target device  may be attempting to download multiple large data files such as music or video files. In the process of downloading the large files target device  may gradually consume more bandwidth from network . Bandwidth is the data transfer rate that may be generally measured in bits per second, as known in the art. Mobile broadband hotpot  may have a pre-determined bandwidth usage percentage of 50% set for target device , for example. Thus, if the bandwidth from network  is 2.0 megabits per second (Mbs), and in the course of downloading the large files, target device  exceeds 1.0 Mbs, then mobile broadband hotspot  may detect an event. The handling of the event will be discussed in detail in the descriptions further below.","An event may also occur when a device, such as target device , consumes within a predetermined period of time a total number bytes exceeding an allotted number of bytes for the predetermined period of time for that device. For example, mobile broadband hotspot  may allot target device  or the user of target device  one gigabyte (1 GB) of data per billing cycle or per predetermine period of time. If in the course of consuming data through network , target device  consumes more than the allotted 1 GB in the billing cycle or predetermined period of time, then such an occurrence may also trigger an event within mobile broadband hotspot .","Yet another event may comprise a state change of the mobile broadband hotspot  from a non-roaming state to a roaming state or vice versa. Given the easily portable nature of mobile broadband hotspot , mobile broadband hotspot  may be used within moving areas such as in trains or buses to provide a network access for a plurality of devices. Thus, when mobile broadband hotspot  is roaming, such roaming may trigger an event as well, such as for example to deny or provided limited connectivity or services to any target device . Likewise, if the roaming mobile broadband hotspot  stops roaming, then another event may be triggered as well. Many other types of events are possible and may be recognized by mobile broadband hotspot .","Mobile broadband hotspot  may use hotspot module  to recognize various events. Hotspot module  may be configured or updated to detect additional events as well. Hotspot module  may be updated by remote devices through network  or by devices locally connected to mobile broadband hotspot . In other embodiments, hotspot module  may even be modified directly from mobile broadband hotspot . Hotspot module  may also use network policy  to detect events.","After detecting an event, processor , executing hotspot module , may determine a device from the plurality of devices to receive a notification of the event. The device from the plurality of devices may be administrative device , target device  or any other device. In other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot  may also be determined to receive the notification of the event as well. After determining the device, processor , executing hotspot module , may send a notification of the event to the device for showing within a display of the device. Notifications for all events may be required to be transmitted to a device with an administrative permission level. Thus, administrative device  will generally receive all event notifications from mobile broadband hotspot .","In order to increase positive user experience of the network access for the connected devices, mobile broadband hotspot  may be further configured to implement policies associated with the occurrence of the events in order to improve the shared network access. In one embodiment, processor , executing hotspot module , may be configured to determine a policy directed to a device from the plurality of devices connected to mobile broadband hotspot . The determined policy may generally be associated with or customized to the event. As previously discussed, the associations of policies to events may be stored within network policy  of memory . Moreover, as previously stated, network policy  may be updated from local devices or from remote devices through network . Thus, the determined policy may have been set remotely through network  by an IT administrator, Mobile Network operator (MNO) or a remote data management server.","The policy may be an action or a set of actions that may be implemented and carried out by mobile broadband hotspot  in order to affect target device  or other connected devices. In the present embodiment, a policy may comprise an action to change a quality of service for or the operation of one or more connected devices. For example, the executed policy may reduce the consumable bandwidth of a particular device, such as target device . The reduction may reduce bandwidth partially or completely, thereby blocking the device from accessing network  for a period of time or indefinitely. A policy may also comprise an action to change the permission level of a device. For example, the permission level of a presently connected device may be changed from guest permission level to blacklisted permission level, thereby effectively blocking the device from even connecting to mobile broadband hotspot . As previously discussed, the association between policies and events may be stored within network policy . Hotspot module  may be used to allow policies, events and associations between policies and events to be created and stored within network policy  residing in memory . In alternative embodiments, policies and their associations with events may be set through network  by a mobile network operator or other secure sources and delivered to mobile broadband hotspot .","Upon determining the policy, processor , executing hotspot module , may be configured to execute the policy on mobile broadband hotspot  or on the device. As previously discussed, policy may reduce or cut off completely the quality of service to the device. Generally, in most instances the policy shall be executed within mobile broadband hotspot . For example, the executed policy on mobile broadband hotspot  may cause mobile broadband hotspot  to block or prohibit target device  from accessing network  because target device  has consumed more bytes than the allotted number of bytes within a predetermined time period or billing cycle. In another instance, instead of blocking, the executed policy on mobile broadband hotspot  may cause mobile broadband hotspot to reduce the data transfer speed, or bandwidth, of target device  to a much lower level but still allow target device  to maintain a connection to network  through mobile broadband hotspot . In one embodiment, prior to executing the policy, processor , executing hotspot module , may be configured to send a notification of the policy being executed to the device affected by the execution of the policy for showing within the display of the device prior to executing the policy. While mobile broadband hotspot  may determine the policy by using network policy , in other embodiments, the determining the policy may comprise receiving the policy from administrative device , as well.","Generally, a powered on administrative device  shall always receive a notification of all events while other devices without administrative privilege, such as target device , may or may not receive the notification of some events. In administrative device , device processor , executing device module , may receive the notification of an event from mobile broadband hotspot  using API . Device processor , executing device module , may transmit the notification to target device  of the plurality of devices. Transmitting the notification to target device  may comprise device processor  selecting target device  using API . The selection may be induced from display . In one embodiment, prior to transmitting the notification to target device , device processor , executing device module , may be configured to show data usage information corresponding to the user of target device  on display  within administrative device . The data usage information may be displayed in a graphical chart or any other graphical representation.","In one embodiment, device processor , executing device module , may direct mobile broadband hotspot  to execute a policy on target device , which may receive the notification of events. Prior to directing mobile broadband hotspot  to execute the policy, device processor , executing device module , may be configured to receive a policy to execute from a user input from administrative device . The user input may be performed on display . Therefore, while mobile broadband hotspot  may automatically determine the policy to execute to affect a specific device from the plurality of devices and send a notification of the event to that specific device, administrative device  may also be used to select and execute policies affecting specific devices and to send notifications of the events to specific devices.","Mobile broadband hotspot  may also be used to keep track of data usages for various credentials in order to create a billing statement for each individual credential and\/or user. As stated earlier, new users may create a credential, and returning users may input information used to associate them with a credential. Upon receiving or determining the credential based on inputs from a device, processor , executing hotspot module , may perform an authentication of the credential using billing policy . The authentication may serve the purpose of ensuring that the credential contains adequate billing information. Processor  may even transmit the credential to central billing server  for further authentication. In an embodiment, the processor  may authenticate the credential using billing policy  that may be located in memory . Processor , executing hotspot module , may be further configured to track all data usage associated with that credential using API . Then processor , executing hotspot module , may be further configured to submit the credential and data usage associated with the credential to central billing server  or to any other billing server across network  or locally in memory .","Central billing server  (or other source) may create a billing statement associated with the credential and data usage and transmit the billing statement to mobile broadband hotspot . Then processor , executing hotspot module , may modify the billing statement associated with the credential using billing policy  in response to receiving the billing statement from central billing server  (or other source). Processor , executing hotspot module , may transmit the billing statement to target device  associated with the credential for showing on display  of target device . Processor , executing hotspot module , may be further configured to acquire a payment associated with that data usage from target device . In the present embodiment, a payment may be submitted electronically from display . As previously stated, display  may be touch-sensitive and may serve as an input device. In other embodiments, a separate input device connected to target device  may be used to submit payments.","The hotspot module  may also allow one user to assume and\/or credit the data usage bill of another user. Processor , executing hotspot module , may receive from a device, such as target device , a request to pay for another data usage associated with another credential. Then, using billing policy , processor , executing hotspot module , may further create another billing statement associated with another data usage. Processor , executing hotspot , may transmit another billing statement to that device for showing on the display of that device. Finally, processor , executing hotspot , may acquire a payment for another data usage from the device. The descriptions for  shall further detail the capabilities for creating billing policies on mobile broadband hotspot .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","210","220","230","240","210","211","220","221","222","223","230","231","232","240","241","242"]},"In the present embodiment, connected devices may be initially authenticated by mobile broadband hotspot  of  to ensure a match between the user inputs and an existing credential. As previously discussed, authentication may require the device user to provide a credential including a username and password, personal billing information, digital certification and\/or any other type of pertinent information. In other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot , using hotspot module , may automatically examine the device for identification information, such as the MEID (Mobile Equipment Identifier) and\/or IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity), for example.","As previously discussed, mobile broadband hotspot  may transmit notifications of events to various devices in order to allow users to become aware of the events and policies that may affect their user experience with mobile broadband hotspot . Devices with different permission levels may not have the same privilege of receiving the same notifications from mobile broadband hotspot . For , it may be proper to assume that three mobile devices of three users named \u201cAdam,\u201d \u201cBob,\u201d and \u201cJenny\u201d may be connected to mobile broadband hotspot . It may be proper to assume that Adam's device may be granted with administrative permission, while Bob and Jenny's devices may each be granted guest permission. Therefore, Adam's device may correspond to administrative device  of  and Bob and Jenny's devices may correspond to target device  of .","At time period , the administrator device used by Adam may receive notification  for presentation on a display. Notification  may comprise a textual message alerting Adam to the event of a device used by a user named \u201cBob\u201d connecting to mobile broadband hotspot . In the present embodiment, hotspot module  may be configured to transmit notifications of all events to a device connected with administrative permission. Jenny's device will not receive notification  because Jenny's device does not have administrative permission. In the present embodiment, devices with guest permission may only receive notifications of events that may affect the connectivity of that device. Bob's device may not receive notification  as well because Bob's connecting to mobile broadband hotspot  does not yet affect the connectivity of the device Bob is presently using.","At time period  notifications , , and  may be transmitted to the mobile devices used by Adam, Bob, and Jenny. Notifications , , and  may concern the single event of a lowering of battery power of mobile broadband hotspot  to a predetermined level. Since the lowering of battery power may result in an implementation of a policy that may affect the quality of service for all connected devices, all connected devices may receive a notification of such an event. At time period  notifications  and , concerning the event of Jenny exceeding her data usage allocation, may be transmitted to the devices used by Adam and Jenny, respectively. Since the event that triggered the notification does not affect the connectivity of the device used by Bob, the device used by Bob may not receive such notification. At time period  notifications  and  may be transmitted to the devices used by Adam and Bob. Sending of notifications  and  may be triggered by the event of Bob exceeding a bandwidth allocation set for the device used by Bob. Since this event does not directly concern Jenny, the device used by Jenny may not receive any notification of the event. In other embodiments, the rules for transmitting various notifications of events may be reconfigured by mobile broadband hotspot . In yet alternative embodiments, the rules for transmitting the notifications may be changed by a device with administrative permission or trusted client permission.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","310","320","330","310","311","312","313","314","315","317","318","319","316","320","321","322","323","324","325","326","327","330","331","336","337","332","333","334","335"]},"GUIs , , and  may be presented within an individual applet, application window, web browser, browser pop-up, or any other type of visual representation components on a display screen of a device with administrative permission, such as administrative device  of . A device with administrative permission may define events and set policies. Accordingly, mobile broadband hotspot  of  may grant administrative device  with the capability to define events and set policies and to associate the policies with events so the occurrences of an event may trigger the execution of one or more associated policies on mobile broadband hotspot  or on target device  of .","GUI  may allow the user to check the general connection information of other devices connected to the mobile broadband hotspot. Stop sharing link  may be used to prevent any device from connecting to mobile broadband hotspot . In one embodiment, stop sharing link  may be used to reduce or turn off the Wi-Fi signal strength from mobile broadband hotspot  while mobile broadband hotspot  is in access point mode. General policy link  may be used to set and change other general policies. Administrative disconnect button  may be used to disconnect administrative device  from mobile broadband hotspot . Guest user link , which may be associated with the device used by user \u201cBob,\u201d may be used to display guest information  for a particular device connected to mobile broadband hotspot  and to display change policy button . Disconnect guest button  may be used to disconnect, or blacklist the device used by Bob. Guest user link , which may be associated with the device used by user \u201cJenny,\u201d may be used to display guest information for that device as well. In , guest user link  may be unused. Disconnect guest button  may be used to disconnect the device used by Jenny from mobile broadband hotspot .","In the present embodiment, GUI  may be presented on display  of administrative device  after change policy button  is used. Exit button  may be used to exit GUI . Permission button  may be used to change the permission level for any device, such as the device used by Bob. Data allocation button  may be used to access another graphical user interface that allows an upper limit to be set for the data usage of any device, such as the device used by Bob. If the data usage of any device, such as the device used by Bob exceeds the upper limit, then an event may occur and a policy associated with that event may be executed on the device any device, such as the device used by Bob. Likewise, bandwidth button  may be used to set a limit on the proportion of bandwidth consumed by any device, such as the device used by Bob, or maximum data rate, or priority of bandwidth relative to other users. Authentication button  may be used to require a device to encounter a different authentication procedure during a later login. Time cap button  may be used to set a time limit during which any device, such as the device used by Bob may be connected to mobile broadband hotspot . Billing policy button  may be used to set a method of billing any device, such as that of Bob for data usage committed by the device, such as Bob's device.","Bandwidth button  may be used to cause GUI  to be presented onto display  of administrative device . GUI  may be used to set the details of the bandwidth allocation any device, such as for the device used by Bob. An integer number between \u201c0\u201d and \u201c100\u201d may be entered into bandwidth text box  to indicate the maximum percentage of the bandwidth that may be used by any device, such as the device used by Bob. Consuming a higher percentage of the bandwidth than the percentage set in bandwidth text box  may constitute an event. Likewise, max data rate text box  may be used to set the maximum data rate consumed by a mobile device, such as target device . For example, the device used by Bob may be set to have a maximum data rate of 1.0 Mbs within max data rate text box . Therefore, if Bob's device is consuming data above the maximum set rate of 1.0 Mbs, then an event may be triggered. Bandwidth priority text box  allows administrative device  to set the priority of bandwidth consumption among users. For example, administrative device  may set bandwidth priority text box  to \u201cNo\u201d in order to disallow Bob's device to consume any data at a higher priority than the other devices. Similarly, bandwidth priority text box  may be set to \u201cYes\u201d in other instances, thereby allowing Bob's device to consume data at a higher priority. The levels of priority data consumption may vary and they may be set within mobile broadband hotspot . For example, in , had Bob's device been given priority, Bob's device will receive its request data before other devices receive their requested data. By default, administrative users receive the highest priority, then trusted users, and then guests. In another embodiment, all users may receive the same bandwidth priority. Bandwidth text box , max data rate text box , and bandwidth priority text box  may function exclusively or in conjunction with each other. In other embodiments, the definitions of the events may be altered to suite the needs of mobile broadband hotspot .","Another event may occur when a device, such as Bob's device, consumes a disproportionate amount of data relative to the amount of data consumed by the other plurality of devices, then such disproportionate data consumption may cause an event, as well. For example, if Bob's device causes a large spike in data usage through mobile broadband hotspot , then mobile broadband hotspot  may interpret such spike in data usage as an event caused by Bob's device. The tolerated level of disproportionate data consumption and the time period in which the tolerated disproportionate data may occur may be set within mobile broadband hotspot  and may vary from user to user.","One or more policies in response to the occurrence of any events set in GUI  may be set within GUI  as well. Temporary block text box  may accept an integer number indicating the number of minutes the device used by Bob may be blocked from the mobile broadband hotspot if an event set in bandwidth text box , max data rate text box , and bandwidth priority text box  occurs. Block text box  may be used to set the policy that if device used by Bob causes any bandwidth related events, blocking of that device from mobile broadband hotspot  will occur and thus the device will not be able to access network . In the present embodiment, Bob may be reinstated by administrative device  at a later time.","Thus,  presents one example of using administrative device  to define the events and set the policies associated with those events for each credential individually. Moreover, as previously discussed, events may also be caused by mobile broad hotspot  or from other sources. As previously discussed, GUI  may allow many other types of events and policies to be set or defined. In other embodiments, group policies may be set based on permission level. All changes made from administrative device  may be stored within mobile broadband hotspot . As previously mentioned, event and policy information may be stored within network policy  of memory .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","401","410","401","403","402","410","412","413","416","419","413","414","415","416","417","418"]},"As previously discussed, mobile broadband hotspot  of  may keep track of the data usage of a user by associating the data usage with a user's credential, which may comprise information such as a username, password, and personal billing information. During initial authentication with mobile broadband hotspot , the user may also be prompted to input personal billing information so the user may be properly billed for data usage by mobile broadband hotspot . In an alternate embodiment, the mobile broadband hotspot  may obtain billing information passively from the user device. The user profiles, including the credentials, may be stored within memory  of . The description for  may further describe one method of modifying billing policy .","In the present embodiment, GUI  may comprise a graphical user interface displayed within a web browser, browser pop-up, applet, or any other visual representation component displayed on display  of . GUI  may be used to modify billing policy  and the modifications may be performed from a device with administrative permission, such as administrative device . Thus, GUI  may be presented on display  of administrative device . GUI  may be generated by device module  of .","In the present embodiment, administrative billing panel  may show a portion of the present billing policy set on mobile broadband hotspot . The present billing policy may reflect some information within billing policy  of . In the present embodiment, the administrator or owner of mobile broadband hotspot  may, by default, be required to pay for all data usage through mobile broadband hotspot . Another user \u201cJenny\u201d may be required to pay her proportionate data usage if administrator decides to charge Jenny for Jenny's data usage. Another user, \u201cBob\u201d may also be charged. Billing policy button  may be used to bring forth GUI .","GUI  may comprise a graphical user interface displayed from an applet, web browser, browser pop-up, or any other visual presentation component. Billing information panel  may comprise a graphical panel displaying the present fee agreement between the administrator and an Internet service provider for mobile broadband hotspot . In an alternate embodiment, billing information panel  may comprise a graphical panel displaying the current account balances (e.g., monetary, remaining data balance, etc.) between the administrator and an Internet service provider for mobile broadband hotspot  Guest user panel  may allow the administrator to set a fee arrangement for guest user \u201cBob.\u201d Fee arrangement check box  may be used to set a fee arrangement into billing policy  for guest Bob. This fee arrangement may require Bob to pay a bill with an amount proportionate to Bob's data usage. Free usage check box  may be used to create a fee arrangement in which Bob will not be charged for Bob's data usage. In an embodiment, only fee arrangement check box  or free usage check box  may be selected. In the present embodiment, free usage check box  may be chosen to let Bob consume data without charge. In other embodiments, users with guest permission may be automatically required by billing policy  to pay for their data usage until further modification to billing policy . Accordingly, billing policy  may comprise a fee arrangement between guest user Bob and the administrator in which Bob may not be charged for any data usage. Accordingly, billing policy  may also be modified or updated by administrative device  of the plurality of devices. In alternative embodiments, billing policy  may be modified by central billing server  of .","In another embodiment, billing policy  may comprise a fee arrangement, wherein the fee arrangement may require the credential to accept additional billing from another credential. For example, the administrator may require Bob to pay the data usage bill of another credential associated with Jenny, for example. In other embodiments, billing policy  may allow administrator to limit the amount of data usage by Bob's device but charge Bob the full amount up to the limit of the data usage regardless if Bob's data consumption reaches the set limit. In yet other embodiments, billing policy  may be modified so that users are allocated data usage based on permission level and pay according to the allocated amount of total data. In yet other embodiments, billing policy  may comprise prepay billing arrangements for users or groups of users. The prepay billing arrangements may require the users or groups of users to submit payment before mobile broadband hotspot  grants any service. In alternative embodiments, billing policy  may also comprise a post pay billing arrangement, which trusts and expects the users or groups of users to pay for usage at the end of a billing cycle. Central billing system  may credit administrator or owner of mobile broadband hotspot  for providing network access to other devices, such as target device , for example.","Guest user billing panel  may allow the administrator to modify a fee arrangement for guest user \u201cJenny.\u201d Fee arrangement check box  may be used to set a billing policy for guest Jenny, which may require Jenny to pay proportionately to Jenny's data usage. Free usage check box  may be used to indicate that Jenny may not need to pay for any data usage performed by Jenny. In an embodiment, only one of fee arrangement check box  and free usage check box  may be selected. In the present embodiment, fee arrangement check box  may be selected and Jenny may be required to pay a bill proportionate to Jenny's data usage.","In alternative embodiments, billing policy  may be updated to designate a portion of any data usage to be non-billable. For example, billing policy  may allow Bob to use up to an initial 500 megabytes of data without charge and then pay for any additional data usage beyond the first 500 megabytes. In another example, billing policy  may designate data usage from accessing particular web sources to be non-billable. In other embodiments, billing policy  may be configured to set a limit for the data usage for a credential. For example, billing policy  may limit Bob to pay for up to but no more than 500 megabytes. Bob may be limited to up to 500 megabytes. In the present embodiment, billing policy  may also work in conjunction with network policies in network policy  of . Save and exit button  may be used to save any present modifications to billing policy .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","510","520","520","510","511","511","512","512","513","514","515","520","521","521","522","523","524","525","520","531","531","532","532","533","534"],"i":["a","b","a ","b "]},"Display  may correspond to display  of . Applet  may comprise any type of applet. Billing interface  may be presented within applet . Bill amount panel  may present the data usage and amount for the data usage. Pay button  may be used to pay the amount shown in bill amount panel . Send bill button  may be used to send a billing statement to a guest user. In the present embodiment, send bill button  may be used to send a billing statement to the device for presentation on a display of that device used by \u201cJenny.\u201d","Display may correspond to display  of . Applet  may comprise any type of graphical applet. Billing interface  may be presented within applet . Bill amount panel  may present the bill for a user named \u201cBob.\u201d Bob may already be in a fee arrangement in which Bob may not be charged for personal data usage. Pay administrator button  and pay guest button  may be used to allow Bob to pay data usage bills for the administrator or for another user named Jenny, respectively. As previously described, processor  of , executing hotspot module  of , may receive a request from a device to pay for another data usage associated with another credential. Pay administrator button  and pay guest button  may be used to send such a request from the device used by Bob to mobile broadband hotspot .","Display may correspond to display . Applet  may comprise any type of applet and billing interface  includes billing statement panel  which may present the bill amount for Jenny that Bob may now be responsible for paying. Billing interface  may appear after Bob uses pay guest button . Billing statement panel  may represent the billing statement transmitted from mobile broadband hotspot  after receiving a request from Bob to pay for Jenny's data usage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","630","600","600"]},"Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to detect an occurrence of an event. As previously discussed, hotspot module  may be configured to detect events that may affect the overall performance or quality of service of mobile broadband hotspot , thereby by affecting the user experience from the plurality of devices connected to mobile broadband hotspot .","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to determine a device from the plurality of devices to receive a notification of the event. As previously discussed, any notification of the events detected in step  may be required to be transmitted to administrative device . These notifications may also be selectively transmitted to other devices without administrative devices, such as target device .","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor , executing hotspot module , to determine a policy directed to a device. As previously discussed, after determining a device to receive a notification in step , mobile broadband hotspot  may decide upon a policy that will be directed to that device as well.","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor , executing hotspot module , to execute a policy on mobile broadband hotspot  or on another device, such as target device . As previously discussed, the policy determined from step  may be executed which in turn may cause mobile broadband hotspot  to affect other devices. In less common instances, the policy may be executed on some other mobile device such as target device  in order to affect that target device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","750","700","700"]},"Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to receive a credential from a device of a plurality of devices. As previously discussed, a credential may be information identifying a unique individual and may be included in a user profile. A credential may include a username, password, personal billing information, device identification numbers, or any other pertinent information that may be demanded by hotspot module . The credential may be submitted from the device attempting to connect to mobile broadband hotspot and the credential may be stored within billing policy . A returning user may be required to submit information matching a credential before reconnecting to mobile broadband hotspot . The matched credential may be used to authenticate the user.","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to track a data usage associated with the credential. As previously discussed, mobile broadband hotspot  may track data usage for a plurality of credentials. Each credential and associated data usage may be stored within memory .","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of FIG. , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to submit the credential and data usage to central billing server . As previously discussed, the credential received in step  and the associated data usage of the credential received from step  may be transmitted from mobile broadband hotspot  to central billing server  or to any other billing server.","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to modify a billing statement associated with the credential using billing policy  in response to receiving the billing statement from central billing server . After transmitting a credential and associated data usage to central billing server  (or alternately to a local billing module), mobile broadband hotspot  may receive a billing statement from central billing server  (or alternately to a local billing module). Central billing system  may not be privy to fee arrangements and other policies set in billing policy . Mobile broadband hotspot  may use billing policy  to modify the billing statement to reflect current fee arrangement and other billing policies. As previously explained, some data usage may be non-billable, and some users may be required to pay for a data usage of another credential.","Referring to step  of flowchart  in  and environment  of , step  of flowchart  comprises processor  configured to transmit the billing statement to the device for showing on a display of the device. Once the billing statement has been properly presented on a display, user of device may perform an electronic fee pay from the display of the device, in one embodiment. As previously explained, the billing statement, in other embodiments, may be a prepay billing statement sent to the user prior to service being granted. In other embodiments, the billing statement may be a post usage billing statement sent to the user after network  access service has been provided over a billing period or policy period. In other embodiments, mobile broadband hotspot  may have other payment arrangements with users.","Thus, a system and method for managing hotspot network access of a plurality of devices has been disclosed. In an effort to improve network connectivity and positive user experience, a mobile broadband hotspot may alert devices of events that may affect the quality of service provided by the mobile broadband hotspot. The notifications of events may be generally delivered to administrative devices and to other devices with lower permission levels. The mobile broadband hotspot and\/or administrative devices may manually select one or more policies to execute in order to maintain better connectivity for all users. Hotspot module  may allow policies to be executed that affect only a subset of the devices connected to mobile broadband hotpot.","Moreover, a system and method for managing the billing of a hotspot network access has been disclosed. Instead of generating a billing statement that bills only the owner of the data plan of the mobile broadband hotspot, the present system and method allows for flexible billing. During network access, the owner may require other device users to assume a portion of the bill. Other users may even decide to assume the bill of the owner or users of other device who may have been billed. Therefore, the bill may be properly divided among users and the billing statement generated may accurately reflect the separate billings.","From the above description of the invention it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts of the present invention without departing from its scope. Moreover, while the invention has been described with specific reference to certain embodiments, a person of ordinary skills in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. As such, the described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described herein, but is capable of many rearrangement, modifications, and substitutions without departing from the scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
