---
title: Mobile state determination of location aware devices
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for determining the mode of travel of a location aware device. Data from the location aware device is received, which includes location aware data about the speed, location, and navigational route of the location aware device and data about the connection of the location aware device to a power source. These features of data from the location aware device are used to determine the mode of travel of the location aware device. The data from the location aware device can also be used to determine preferred routes of navigation, speed of roads, and traffic on roads.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886457&OS=08886457&RS=08886457
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08886457
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for the determination of the modes of travel of location aware devices.","2. Description of the Related Art","Location aware devices are portable, electronic devices that can provide their use with information about their current location. Location aware devices such as Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) devices communicate with satellites to determine the precise location of the GNSS device. GNSS devices are commonly used in navigation and route guidance systems and have been included in a variety of consumer products ranging from vehicles to mobile devices. GNSS devices can provide useful information about the location and routes of users.","Providers of maps and navigational services use the information provided by the user's GNSS device to provide directions, routing, and locale information. If the provider has information about the user's mode of travel, such as whether the user is walking, biking, or driving in car, then the provider can use that information to offer results that take that mode of travel into account. However, using conventional methods, it is difficult to automatically determine whether a user of a GNSS device is walking, biking, or driving a car, and instead, providers either explicitly ask the user to identify the mode of travel, or simply assume\u2014sometimes incorrectly\u2014what is the current mode of travel. Either of these approaches can lead to error.","Data received from a plurality of location-aware devices, such as GNSS devices, are collected and analyzed to determine the modes of travel of the GNSS devices. Data from the GNSS devices can include the information about the power source of the GNSS device, such as whether the GNSS device is connected to an external power source. Data can also include GNSS data about the speed, location, or direction of travel of the GNSS device.","In one embodiment, the mode of travel can be determined based at least in part on the power source of the GNSS device. If the GNSS device is connected to an external power source, the mode of travel can be determined to be a vehicle.","The speed of the GNSS device can be calculated and used to determine the mode of travel, such as walking, biking or driving a vehicle. One or more speed thresholds can be established, and a speed greater than a threshold amount can indicate travel by vehicle; a speed below or between certain thresholds can indicate travel by bicycle; and a speed below a certain threshold can indicate travel by walking. In some instances, an average speed or an estimated speed based on a percentile value of a speed probability distribution can be used to determine modes of travel. In other embodiments, a speed or a velocity of the GNSS device is received directly from the GNSS device and used to determine the mode of travel.","Additional data can be analyzed about the route traveled by the GNSS device during a definite period of time. The route of the GNSS device can be compared with map data or known navigational routes to determine the mode of travel. Where the route is determined to be a highway, then the mode of travel is determined to be by vehicle. Where the route is determined to be a bicycle path, then the mode of travel is determined to be by bicycle. Where the route is determined to be a walking path or other non-vehicular pathway (e.g., a route through a park), then the mode of travel is determined to by walking.","In some embodiments, the connection to a power source, location, speed and\/or velocity, and the navigational route can be analyzed together to determine the mode of travel of the device.","The modes of travel of the plurality of GNSS devices can be used in various applications. One application is to determine preferred routes of travel. Another application is to determine preferred navigation directions in response to a navigation request. Another application is to determine the average speed of certain routes. Another application is to determine average traffic conditions on certain routes.","The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all-inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings, specification, and claims hereof.","The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.","Embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods, and computer-readable storage media for determining modes of travel of users of location aware devices. The embodiments described herein will be discussed with respect to GNSS devices, but it should be understood that other types of location aware devices, using non-GNSS type technologies may be used as well. Non-GNSS devices can use information to determine location, such as location based services (LBS), including network-based, handset-based, SIM-based, and hybrid methods, using for example, triangulation, multilateration, cell or network identification, radio signal analysis, dead reckoning methods, including inertial navigation systems, or other non-geo-spatial satellite technologies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","101","110","120","120","121","122","123","124"]},"The network  represents the communication pathways between the server  and the GNSS devices . In one embodiment, the network  is the Internet and uses standard communications technologies and\/or protocols. The network  can also utilize dedicated, custom, or private communications links that are not necessarily part of the Internet.","The system environment  includes at least one location aware device, such as GNSS device , such as a mobile device with GNSS or a vehicle with a GNSS receiver . The mobile device with GNSS can be any mobile device equipped with GNSS, such as a smart phone or personal digital assistant (PDA), or a dedicated GNSS receiver\/transmitter. Thus, a user may carry a GNSS device while walking, bicycling, or driving in a vehicle.  illustrates two GNSS devices  for clarity; in practice, there will be hundreds and likely thousands of GNSS devices  from which GNSS data is received. The vehicle with GNSS can be any vehicle equipped with a GNSS receiver (either OEM or after-market), such as a car, truck, motorcycle, bus, or fleet vehicle.","The GNSS devices  include a GNSS receiver chipset. The GNSS receiver chipset receives several sources of differential signals, such as a wide-area augmentation system (WAAS), subscription L-Band signals, or a combination of signal options. The GNSS device  is composed of an antenna that is tuned to the frequencies transmitted by satellites, receiver-processors, and a highly stable clock. The GNSS device  may include a display for providing location and speed information to the user.","The term \u201cGNSS device\u201d refers to devices that communicate the location, speed, and\/or direction of travel through geo-spatial position satellites. For example, a mobile device, vehicle, or other transportation unit can use the Global Positioning System (GPS), the GLONASS system (a Russian radio-based satellite navigation system), the Chinese COMPASS and BeiDou navigation systems, the Galileo positioning system of the European Union (EU), or the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System of India.","The GNSS device communication module  communicates with a plurality of GNSS devices  and receives data from the plurality of GNSS devices . Data received from a GNSS device  can include GNSS data about the location, speed, direction of travel, and\/or velocity of the GNSS device . Data can also include information about the power source of the GNSS, specifically whether the GNSS device  is connected to an external power source or operating on battery power. The data can also include information about whether the device is physically held by a user. The GNSS device communication module  can be configured to receive data from various types of GNSS devices . In one embodiment, the data can include identifying information about the GNSS device . In certain embodiments, the GNSS device communication module  can remove the identifying information upon receipt of the data from the GNSS device . The data can be sent to the data processing module , the GNSS navigational module , or stored in the data storage .","The GNSS device communication module  can receive the data from GNSS devices  at regular intervals. In some embodiments, the regular intervals can be once per second, once every few seconds, once per minute, or other intervals of time. In another embodiment, the data can be collected more frequently than once per second. In other embodiments, the data is received according a specific upload pattern. The GNSS device communication module  can receive data from a vehicle at every 100 meters traveled by the vehicle. In some embodiments, the data is collected in short intervals or bursts, such that there is a dense sampling of data in a short time period. In another example, the data is received at a faster rate than the rate that data is sent back to the GNSS device .","In some embodiments, the GNSS device communication module  receives the data from a vehicle in an upload pattern that is different from the upload pattern of a mobile device, such as a smartphone or other personal device. For instance, data from a vehicle may be received at regular intervals followed by short bursts, whereas samples of data from mobile devices may be received only at regular intervals. The data from the GNSS device  is communicated to the server  via the network , and the GNSS device communication module  can send data received from the respective GNSS devices  to the data processing module .","The operations of data collection can be repeated with respect to a large number of GNSS devices  over an extended period of time, such as an hour, a day, a week, etc., depending on the particular application for which the collected information is to be used. For example, a system administrator can configure the server  to collect several hundred or thousands of samples of data from numerous GNSS devices  passing through a given street intersection over a one week period. In addition, a large sample of data can be collected and stored from multiple GNSS devices, and then subsequently analyzed to determine the mode of travel of each of the GNSS devices . Similarly, multiple threads can be operating concurrently to collect, analyze, and store the data.","In some embodiments, the data received from a GNSS device  includes information about the power source of the GNSS device, such as whether or not the device is connected to an external power source or operating on battery power. The GNSS device  can include a client-side application that determines the power source of the GNSS device, for example, by querying an application programming interface of the device's power manager or operating system. Alternatively, the client-side application can determine the voltage level from the power source and use that information to infer the type of power source. The client-side application sends data about the power source to the GNSS device communication module , indicating whether the power source is external or internal (e.g., battery). If the power source is the internal battery of a mobile device, the client-side application sends data indicating that the GNSS device  is not connected to an external power source.","In other embodiments, the data includes information about whether the GNSS device  is held by a user (e.g., an orientation sensor, touch sensor or the like). A sensor in the GNSS device  can detect whether the GNSS device  is held in a steady motion or jostled by the user. For example, a GNSS device  that is being jostled can indicate that the user of the GNSS device  is walking or running, rather than riding in a vehicle.","The data processing module  receives data about whether the GNSS device  is connected to an external power source from the GNSS device communication module  or from the data storage  to determine the mode of travel. In some embodiments, the data processing module  receives data about whether the GNSS device  is temporarily attached or permanently attached to the external power source. If the GNSS device  is attached to an external power source, the data processing module  determines that the GNSS device  is a mobile device that is connected to a vehicle. In one embodiment, the GNSS device  can maintain information in a log indicating how long the device is continuously connected to an external power source; if the device is continuously connected for an extended period of time (e.g., at least 15 days), then the device  can determine that it is permanently installed in a vehicle. The data processing module  can determine based on the power source data that the user of the GNSS device  is using a vehicle as the mode of travel. If the data indicates that the GNSS device  is not connected to an external power source, then the data processing module  determines that the GNSS device  is a mobile device and that the user of the GNSS device  is likely to be walking or using a non-vehicular mode of travel. Thus, the data processing module  can use power source data (and optionally, the length of time connected to an external power source) to determine the mode of travel of the GNSS device .","In addition, the data processing module  can determine the mode of travel for a GNSS device  based on GNSS data. The GNSS data received from a GNSS device  generally includes information from which can be determined a location of the GNSS device  and the time at which the GNSS device  was at the particular location. The data may be packaged in any suitable format, including GPX, CGGTTS, USNO, NMEA, and so forth. The location data includes the latitude and longitude of the GNSS device . Based on the GNSS information, the GNSS device communication module  can use map data to determine the exact location of the GNSS device  on a map.","The GNSS data may also include the direction of travel of the GNSS device . The direction may be relative to points on a fixed compass, such as cardinal points (north, south, east and west) or intermediate directions (northeast, southeast, southwest, northwest) or headings. Alternatively, the direction data may include information about the degrees of rotation relative to a 360 degree compass. For instance, a vehicle facing directly east can correspond to a direction of 90 degrees.","The GNSS data can include the speed of travel of the GNSS device . In one embodiment, the speed of the GNSS device  is reported directly from the GNSS device . The speeds can be sent by the GNSS device  continuously or over an interval of time. In other embodiments, the speeds of the GNSS device  are calculated by the data processing module  based on the change of location of the device. In some cases, the reported speeds and the calculated speeds are used together to determine a probability speed distribution or an average speed of the GNSS device , which is described in detail herein. In another embodiment, the GNSS data includes the velocity of the GNSS device , which includes the speed and the heading of the GNSS device . The velocity of the GNSS device  can also be determined based on a reported or calculated speed and a direction of travel.","Once data is received from a GNSS device , the data processing module  can associate GNSS data for a GNSS device  with a road segment on a map. A road segment can be a portion of a road between two adjacent intersections. The term \u201croad segment\u201d also includes a portion or all of a walking path, biking path, transportation route, roadway or highway. Alternatively or additionally, a road segment can be defined by a specific length (e.g., a road segment is 100 meters long). The data processing module  can also associate the device's GNSS data with a road, street, highway, walking path, or other transportation route. The association serves to establish which GNSS data are associated with which roads or pathways, thereby building up a collection of data that can be used to characterize travel along such roads. In other embodiments, the association of GNSS data to a road segment can be performed in conjunction with storing the GNSS data in the database.","In some embodiments, the association of the GNSS data to a road is based upon the calculation of a log probability for the GNSS data based on a Gaussian assumption for distance and direction. The probability of the association of GNSS data (or a sample of GNSS data) to a road segment is calculated by the computation:\n\nlog ()+log (\u03b8\/\u03b8)\u2003\u2003(Eq. 1)\n\nwhere P is the probability distribution of samples at a given distance, d is the distance of the sample in reference to the center line of the road (reference axis), and \u03b8 is the angle of the sample's direction in reference to the center line of the road (reference axis), and dand \u03b8are constants. P can be a Gaussian probability distribution, but any representative of the distribution of errors may be used. The best fit association score for a sample of GNSS data is determined by finding the minimum value for Eq. 1 for all roads that are situated nearby the GNSS data. If no roads are situated nearby the sample of GNSS data, no calculation for association is required. A sample of GNSS data is considered to be \u201cnearby\u201d a road segment if it is within a certain threshold distance (for example, within 20 meters).\n","In order to associate a sample of GNSS data to a road segment, the best fit score (corresponding to an association with one road segment, i.e. \u201cbest segment\u201d) is compared to the second best fit score (corresponding to an association with another road segment, i.e. \u201csecond best segment\u201d). If the difference between the best fit score and second best fit score meets or exceeds a threshold, the sample of GNSS data is associated with the road segment with the best fit score. If not, the sample is discarded.","The required threshold difference between the scores for the best fit and second best fit is determined by the system designer. A difference of n in the log probability scores corresponds to the association to the best segment being n times more probable than the association to the second best segment. For example, if the log basis is 2 and the threshold difference is set to 1, this means that the sample of GNSS data is twice as likely to be associated with the best segment than with the second best segment. If the threshold difference is set to 3, then the sample of GNSS data is 8 times more probable to be associated with the best segment than with the second best segment. The threshold can be set empirically depending on the degree of accuracy of association desired and to the extent of how many samples of GNSS data are gathered (more GNSS samples means a higher threshold can be set to increase the accuracy of association). Once GNSS data is associated with a particular road or road segment, the GNSS data can be stored in the GNSS data storage .","The data processing module  can identify and select a plurality of GNSS data from a GNSS device  that are associated with a particular road segment, pathway, or route. The data processing module  can also identify and select a plurality of GNSS data from a GNSS device  received during a defined period of time (e.g., GNSS data received during a ten minute period of travel). The data processing module  may also select a plurality of GNSS data captured during a \u201ctrip\u201d made by the user of a GNSS device  from one location to another location. A trip can be defined based on a user's request from the GNSS device  for a navigational route to a chosen destination and\/or the user's movement from one starting location to an end-point destination.","Moreover, the mode of travel of a GNSS device  can be determined based on the speed of the device. The data processing module  analyzes the plurality of GNSS data to determine the speed of the GNSS device  at a location and uses this data to determine the mode of travel of the user of the GNSS device . The data processing module  can determine the speed of the GNSS device  based on the locations of the GNSS device  at two points in time (tand t). The data processing module  can calculate the speed of the GNSS device  using the following calculation: s=d\/t, where s is speed, d is the total distance traveled, and t is the difference of t\u2212t. In other cases, the GNSS device  can provide the speed of the GNSS device  at each location.","The data processing module  can also calculate the average speed of the GNSS device  over a defined period of time or during a trip between two locations. The data processing module  can also determine the average speed of the GNSS device  from data points collected while the GNSS device  is moving (i.e., removing data points when GNSS device  is stopped or idle). Since the speeds of the GNSS device  vary (depending on traffic, stop-and-go movement, etc.), the average speed of the GNSS device  can be used to determine the mode of travel.","In another embodiment, the data processing module  can calculate an estimated speed for a GNSS device  based on speeds at various locations collected over a defined period of time. In one embodiment, the GNSS device  reports data about the speeds at various locations continuously or during a defined period of time. The calculated speeds and the reported speeds can be used together to determine the estimated speed of the GNSS device . The data processing module  compiles the speed data and calculates a speed distribution curve for the speeds of the device captured during a defined period of time. Then, a percentile value of the probability distribution is used to determine the estimated speed (\u201cpercentile speed\u201d) of the GNSS device . For example, the 80percentile value of the speed distribution (e.g., \u201c80percentile speed\u201d) can be used to determine the estimated speed of the GNSS device . Other percentages or statistical calculations can be used to determine the estimated speed of the GNSS device . The estimated speed is then used to determine the mode of travel of the GNSS device .","The data processing module  can compare the estimated speed of the GNSS device  to certain pre-determined thresholds or defined parameters for modes of travel. For instance, thresholds can be set for determining walking (e.g., less than 5 miles per hour (mph)), biking (e.g., between 5 and 15 mph, on average), or driving (e.g., greater than 15 mph). In one example, if the GNSS device  is traveling at a speed that is less than a threshold amount (e.g., 5 mph), then the data processing module  can determine that the mode of travel of the GNSS device  is walking. In another example, if the GNSS device  has a speed that is greater than a threshold amount (e.g., 30 mph), the mode of travel of the GNSS device  can be determined to be a vehicle (or in some cases, a mobile device held by a user traveling in a vehicle). In yet another example, if the GNSS device  has a speed in between two threshold amounts, the mode of travel of the GNSS device  can be determined to be a bicycle. Where there is an ambiguity in determining the mode of travel solely based on speed (i.e., the speed can be attributed to a slow-moving vehicle, fast biking, or running), other data from the GNSS device , such as power source data, navigational route, etc., can be used to determine the mode of travel.","The data processing module  may also calculate the acceleration of the GNSS device  to determine the mode of travel. The data processing module  can calculate the acceleration with the following formula: A=(s\u2212s)\/t, where A is acceleration, sis the speed at t, sis the t, and t is the difference of t\u2212t. In some embodiments, the GNSS device  includes or is associated with an accelerometer (e.g., a mobile device with a built-in accelerometer) that directly measures the acceleration of the GNSS device  and sends the data to the GNSS device communication module  via the network .","The GNSS device  can then determine the mode of travel based on the determined acceleration. If the acceleration is above a predefined threshold, then the data processing module  determines that mode of travel is in a vehicle. For example, if the GNSS device  has a fast rate of acceleration greater than that which is capable by a human on foot or on a bicycle, e.g., greater than 3 m\/s, then the data processing module  determines that the mode of travel is a vehicle. If the acceleration is below a pre-determined threshold, then the GNSS device  is likely to not be connected to a vehicle, and the user of the GNSS device  may be walking or riding a bike. The data processing module  can analyze the type of acceleration of the GNSS device . Certain types of acceleration can be used to determine the particular mode of travel (e.g., sustained acceleration at the start of movement can be associated with a vehicle). For instance, the GNSS data from the GNSS device  can indicate whether the acceleration is continuous or sporadic.","In some embodiments, the data processing module  can determine the mode of travel of the GNSS device  based on the navigational route of the device. The data processing module  communicates with the GNSS navigational module  and sends data about location, speed, etc., for the GNSS device . The GNSS navigational module  can use the GNSS data to map the navigational route of the GNSS device  over a defined period of time and analyze the route to determine the mode of travel of the GNSS device . The GNSS navigational module  can also provide a suggested route for a GNSS device  when a user requests directions to a queried location.","In one embodiment, the user of the GNSS device  can request directions for travel from a starting location (e.g., the location of the GNSS device ) to a specified destination. The GNSS navigational module  can send a suggested navigational route to the GNSS device  via the GNSS device communication module . The GNSS navigational module  then receives GNSS data about the locations of the GNSS device  and determines the path traveled by the GNSS device  to the destination.","In certain embodiments, the GNSS navigational module  can determine the mode of travel by comparing the actual route traveled by the GNSS device  with the suggested navigational route. In one example, if the GNSS device  follows the designated route for a vehicle, then the GNSS navigational module  can determine that the mode of travel is a vehicle. If the GNSS device  does not follow the designated route for a vehicle, the GNSS navigational module  may determine that the mode of travel of the GNSS device  is not likely to be a vehicle. For example, if the GNSS device  follows a route of a walking path or travels on a one-way street in the wrong direction of travel, the user of the GNSS device  can be determined to be walking or riding a bike. The GNSS navigational module  can send this navigational data to the data processing module  for further analysis with other GNSS data or for storing at the GNSS data storage .","In other embodiments, the GNSS navigational module  can determine the route of a GNSS device  and compare the traveled route to extrinsic map data or known geographic information system (GIS) data about transportation routes. In some embodiments, the GNSS navigational module  can map or plot the actual locations of a GNSS device  captured over a period of time. The GNSS navigational module  can compare the route traveled by the GNSS device  with GIS data about transportation routes (e.g., roadways, highways, routes for buses or trains), biking paths, or walking paths. If the route of the GNSS device  matches closely with a known transportation route (e.g., a walking path or a highway), then the GNSS navigational module  can determine that the GNSS device  used the mode of travel associated with the transportation route. In other embodiments, a viewer of map can compare the mapped route of the GNSS device  with known map or GIS data about transportation routes to determine the mode of travel.","In another embodiment, the data processing module  can analyze multiple features of the data from a GNSS device  to determine the mode of travel. For example, the data processing module  can receive data that a GNSS device  is connected to a power source and determine that it has an average speed of 35 mph on a particular road. In that case, the data can be used to determine that the user of the GNSS device  is in a vehicle based on the faster speed of travel and the connection to a power source. The data processing module  can also receive data from the GNSS navigational module  about the route traveled by the GNSS device  during a given period of time along with the speed of travel and data about its connection to a power source. For example, the data processing module  may receive data that indicates the route of a GNSS device  matches closely with a known highway, the average speed of the GNSS device  is 60 mph, and the GNSS device  is connected to a power source. This data can indicate that the mode of travel is a vehicle. In another example, the data processing module  can receive data that the GNSS device  is traveling at 15 mph, and the GNSS device  is connected to a power source. This can indicate that the mode of travel is a slow-moving vehicle. In yet another example, the data processing module  can receive data that the GNSS device  is traveling at 5 mph and that the GNSS device  is not connected to a power source. This could indicate that the user of the GNSS device  is carrying the GNSS device  in a slow-moving vehicle or that the user is running (or biking) at 5 mph. In this case, the data processing module  can use additional data, such as the traveled route of the GNSS device , to determine whether the mode of travel is vehicular, pedestrian, or another mode of travel. Based on these features, the data processing module  can determine the mode of travel for a GNSS device .","In certain embodiments, the data processing module  can input multiple features of GNSS data into a training model to determine the modes of travel of the GNSS devices . A machine learning algorithm can be trained on a set of GNSS data associated with a GNSS device , where each sample of the GNSS data has a verified mode of travel (e.g., vehicular, pedestrian, etc.). The machine learning algorithm can be adjusted using various rules and coefficients to accurately predict whether the user of the GNSS device  is walking or riding in a vehicle. Once the machine learning algorithm has been trained on a known data set, the algorithm can be used for determining the mode of travel for other unverified GNSS devices . For example, the machine learning algorithm can receive as an input GNSS data from a plurality of GNSS devices . The machine learning algorithm analyzes the signals and outputs a determination of the determined mode of travel of the GNSS device .","In yet another embodiment, the data processing module  can receive GNSS data from an external application associated with the GNSS device . The external application can monitor the locations, speed, direction, and\/or routes of travel of the GNSS device  and send the travel data to the data processing module . An example of an external application includes social traffic applications installed on a mobile device.","After a mode of travel has been determined, the data processing module  can associate the determined mode of travel with a road segment, road, route, or location. Using the association methods described above, the data processing module  can associate a plurality of data about the determined modes of travel of GNSS devices  with a given road segment or location. The collection of such data can be stored and used to characterize modes of travel along such roads or routes.","In addition, the GNSS data storage  stores data about the plurality of GNSS devices . In some embodiments, the GNSS data storage  receives and stores GNSS data from the GNSS device communication module  or from the data processing module . In one embodiment, the GNSS data storage  stores data about the determined modes of travel for GNSS devices  from the data processing module  and\/or the GNSS navigational module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","120","202","204","204","250","255","206","213","250","218","213","208","210","214","216","255","200","206","202"]},"The storage device  is a computer-readable storage medium such as a hard drive, compact disk read-only memory (CD-ROM), DVD, or a solid-state memory device. The memory  holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device  is used in combination with the keyboard  to input data into the computer system . Mechanisms used to convey user input can include, but are not limited to, touchscreen interfaces, touchpads, directional pointing devices, voice controlled interfaces, hardware keyboard shortcuts, directional hardware keys and hardware elements such as wheels and rolling balls. The graphics adapter  displays images and other information on the display device . In some embodiments, the display device  includes a touch screen capability for receiving user input and selections. The network adapter  couples the computer system  to the communications network . Some embodiments of the computer  have different and\/or other components than those shown in .","The computer  is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein, the term \u201cmodule\u201d refers to computer program instructions and other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus, a module can be implemented in hardware, firmware, and\/or software. In one embodiment, program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on the storage device , loaded into the memory , and executed by the processor .","The types of computers  used by the entities of  can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power used by the entity. For example, a server  may comprise multiple interconnected individual servers working together to provide the functionality described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["110","301","301","110","302","110","303","110","122","110","304","110","110","305","110","110","110","110","306"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["110","401","110","110","110","402","110","403","110","404","110","110","110","405"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["110","501","110","502","503","504","505","110","507"]},"Applications of Mobile State Estimation","In various embodiments, the methods and systems described above can be applied to gather and deduce information about modes of travel, to create or edit maps, or to determine navigational routes for users.","Determining Speed and Traffic on Roads","In one embodiment, the modes of travel of a plurality of GNSS devices  can be used to determine the average speed on a particular road or route. Based on the methods described above, GNSS data can be used to determine the mode of travel of numerous GNSS devices  on a road segment and then determine the estimated speed of each of the GNSS devices  on the road. For example, if a certain number (or percentage) of GNSS devices  are associated with a particular road and the GNSS devices  have been determined to use vehicles as a mode of travel, the associated speeds of the GNSS devices  can be used to determine the average speed of the road.","In another embodiment, the amount of traffic on a particular road can be determined based on the modes of travel associated with the road. For example, if there are large numbers of GNSS data associated with a particular road, and the data are analyzed to determine that the mode of travel is mainly vehicular, it can be determined that the road is associated with heavy vehicular traffic. In another example, GNSS data can be used to determine that a particular road has low traffic volume because it is associated with a fewer number of GNSS devices  and\/or many of the navigational routes of the GNSS devices  do not include the road as part of the travel route.","In some embodiments, the GNSS data must meet a high confidence threshold to be used for further analysis and applications. For example, if there are multiple features of the data from a GNSS device  that indicate that the device has a particular mode of travel, this GNSS data is considered to be of high confidence and can be used for traffic and navigational purposes. GNSS data that is ambiguous (e.g., data can indicate more than one mode of travel), cannot be associated with a road or road segment, or is otherwise unclear regarding the mode of travel can be considered to be low-confidence data and not used for traffic or navigational applications.","Determining Navigation Routes","In other embodiments, determined modes of travel for various GNSS devices  can be aggregated and analyzed to determine preferred routes of navigation for users. In some embodiments, the navigational routes analyzed from various modes of travel by GNSS devices  can be used to provide suggested routes of travel. For example, a route that is associated with numerous GNSS devices  that have used pedestrian mode of travel can indicate the presence of a walking path. Navigational routes taken by GNSS devices  using vehicular modes of travel can indicate a preferred road used by drivers.","In one embodiment, the navigational routes of the GNSS devices  can be used to provide directions for users. For instance, if numerous GNSS devices  are determined to use a vehicle as a mode of travel, and many of the GNSS devices  do not follow designated directions at a certain point on the route, this can indicate that a different route of travel is preferred by drivers at the location. This information can be used to determine a better navigational route for drivers. In another example, if numerous GNSS devices  that are determined to use a pedestrian mode of travel do not follow suggested directions for walking to a certain destination, this can indicate that the pedestrians prefer an alternate route. This information can be useful for providing better walking directions to a user. Thus, the determined modes of travel can be used to identify preferred routes for walking, biking, or driving.","The methods and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein, and any references below to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment and several alternate embodiments, it will be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","Finally, it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly, the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
