---
title: Cartridge actuator and method of manufacture thereof
abstract: A cartridge useful as an activator of other systems, and related method of manufacture. The cartridge's casing includes a fuse delimited by placing a plate at each end staked to the casing for fixing the fuse. This configuration permits precise control of the length of the fuse during manufacture, eliminates the need for separate structures in the casing to aid fuse location, and simplifies manufacture and assembly. This configuration supports the fuse lessening stresses that can lead to fractures. A portion of the casing is thinned by a preselected amount to permit fracturing of the casing to launch the projectile. The projectile may be attached to the cartridge casing more simply, e.g. by screw threading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08616129&OS=08616129&RS=08616129
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08616129
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110819
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The invention pertains to the structure and manufacture of cartridge shells, particularly cartridges used as activators of other systems.","Cartridge shells are sometimes used as activators for other devices, e.g. to release a projectile terminated by a knife edge so as to cut a lanyard and release a payload thethered to the lanyard. Such a cartridge shell may typically have a casing with the projectile attached thereto, with the casing having a central opening in which is disposed an explosive charge to fire the projectile, and a fuse to transmit ignition from a primer cap to the explosive charge. The length and composition of the fuse determines what delay occurs between firing of the cap and ignition of the charge, and the mechanism by which the projectile attaches to the cartridge determines at what gas pressure within the cartridge causes release of the projectile. A delay between firing the primer and launching the projectile is advantageous for the systematic deployment of an applicable systems or payloads. In this manner, the burn time of the fuse determines the delay time between firing of the cartridge and the release of the projectile. Assembling the fuse at the proper length, however, can be difficult. To do so, one typically forms a portion of the cartridge's central opening into a ledge, and forms the fuse by stacking chemical energetics into the central opening up to the ledge. In practice, it is difficult to determine precisely how closely the height of the energetics stack registers with the ledge, requiring extra manufacturing steps to verify fuse position before fixing the fuse in place, for example by adhesive.","Also, at the opposite end of the fuse near the explosive charge, the casing has another ledge upon which rests and physically supports the fuse. This means that the fuse is not fully supported at its base, which gives rise to shearing forces and bending moments that can fracture the fuse, and cause failure of the cartridge.","Accordingly, an object of the invention is to permit the precise control of the delay time at which a cartridge releases its projectile.","Another object is to do the foregoing by precise control of the cartridge's fuse length.","Another object is to prevent mechanical fracturing of the fuse prior to firing the cartridge.","Another object is to prevent such mechanical fracturing by fully supporting the fuse in the cartridge's interior.","Another object is to do the foregoing in a manner that simplifies and makes more reliable the manufacturing of such cartridges.","Another object is to do the foregoing by permitting simple, easy, hand attachment of the projectile to the cartridge casing.","In accordance with these and other objects made apparent hereinafter, the invention concerns a cartridge having several advantageous features. Instead of supporting the fuse adjacent the explosive charge, a cartridge according to the invention may use a staked plate to support the fuse. The plate being mechanically fixed in the cartridge interior by several protuberances that are sharp enough to cut into the sides of the cartridge's casing, so as to mechanically fix the plate in place, and provide a platform on which the fuse may rest. Thus, this arrangement reduces the shear forces and bending moments at the base of the fuse. At the opposite end of the fuse, one may dispense with the ledge that demarcates the length of the fuse, and instead use a staked plate to fix, more precisely, in place the top of the fuse. This arrangement makes the length (and burning time) of the fuse more precisely controllable during manufacture. This embodiment further simplifies casing manufacture because, by removing this ledge, the central opening in the casing may now have a constant diameter.","These and other objects are further understood from the following detailed description of particular exemplary embodiments of the invention. It is understood, however, that the invention is capable of extended application beyond the precise details of these exemplary embodiments. Changes and modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments, that do not affect the spirit of the invention, nor exceed its scope, as expressed in the appended claims. The exemplary embodiments are described with particular reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:","With reference to the drawing figures, wherein like numbers indicate like parts throughout the several views, and show a cartridge  having a casing  and a projectile  attached to casing  by screw threads . Casing  has a flange  to aid mounting cartridge  in a launch mechanism, e.g. a gun barrel, etc. Casing  has an interior space, or cavity,  in which resides an explosive charge , and a fuse  extending from the space containing containing explosive charge  to the opening  in casing . Interior space  extends generally along an elongate length , in which resides fuse , and mount  for primer cap . Fuse  is, in an exemplary embodiment, in the form of a stack of chemical energetics, which, because stackable, permits manufacture of the device of and with a fuse of preselectable length. At distally opposite ends of fuse  are a pair of staked plates ,  (seen better in ), having holes , \u2032 to permit communication of combustion products to space  and charge . Projectile  attaches to casing  by mating screw threads . Casing  has a portion  thinned by a preselected amount in comparison to the remainder of casing  that surrounds interior space . Thinned portion  lies above screw threads  immediately adjacent portion  of projectile , so that breakage of casing  at portion  will detach projectile  from casing . Inserted into the projectile  is attachment  having a relatively sharp, planar, bottom edge  for cutting anything at which cartridge  shoots projectile . Cartridge  also has o-ring  to contain barrel gases when cartridge  is fired, e.g. from a gun, rifle, cannon, or other device.","With particular reference to , FIG.  shows staked plate  disposed in interior space  of casing , with holes  in plate  for communication of fire from primer cap  to fuse .  shows plate  separate from cartridge , and shows, in an exemplary embodiment, pro-tuberances  in the form of small spikes. When in place as in and , the protuberances  may be cut into casing  in a direction transverse to elongate length  so as to fixedly mount staked plate  onto casing  inside interior space .","Casing  and projectile  may be made of any appropriate structural material, for example, aluminum, because of its relatively light weight compared to its mechanical strength. Knife insert  and edge  are, in an exemplary embodiment, made of steel to provide good cutting of targets. Primer cap  may be made of any appropriate ignition material used in small arms, for example, lead-styphnate. Similarly, the material of fuse  may be made of any pyrotechnic delay material. The propellant material in explosive charge  may be, for example, made of conventional black powder.","During assembly of cartridge , explosive charge  is placed within casing  in any conventional manner, and staked plate  placed atop it. Explosive charge  may be mounted at its end distally opposite of staking plate  in any conventional manner, e.g., by a ledge extending from casing  into interior space  (not shown in the drawing figures). Plate  may initially be curved slightly to fit within interior space , and pressed down along elongate direction  so that plate  splays, driving protuberances (like protuberance  of plate ) into casing , fixing plate  in place. Thereafter, discs of energetics material  may be stacked upon plate , up to the desired level in interior space  along elongate length . Use of staked plate  permits more reliable placement of fuse  in interior space . Thus, in an exemplary embodiment, this configuration dispenses with the need of a ledge to delimit this end of fuse , and simplifies the manufacture of casing . This embodiment also permits better control of the gap in space  between primer cap  and fuse , which makes assembly of cartridge  yet simpler and more reliable.","In operation, cartridge  is loaded in a firing barrel, and triggered so as to fire primer cap . The ignition products pass into interior space  and holes  in staked plate , and ignite fuse . Fuse  burns through to staked plate , which ignites explosive charge  through holes \u2032. The gas pressure fractures the thinned wall at portion  of casing  and the portion  of projectile  adjacent to portion . This fracture detaches projectile  from cartridge , and launches projectile , where knife edge  may cut the desired target. The length of fuse  is more precisely controllable due to the staked plates , . Further, the degree to which casing  is thinned at portion  is controllable.","In principle, the delay time between the firing of cap  and charge  may be changed by varying the height of column . It is, in an exemplary embodiment, possible to maintain the height of column  fixed in order to simplify the manufacture of cartridge , and selectably vary delay time by selectably varying the chemical composition of fuse .","The invention has been described in what is considered to be the most practical and exemplary embodiments. It is recognized, however, that obvious modifications to these embodiments may occur to those with skill in this art.","Lastly, any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations (for example, by using the term \u201cabout\u201d) that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","b","b ","a. "],"b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["2","2"],"i":"b. "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
