---
title: Transport and detection of superparamagnetic particles by nanowire
abstract: An apparatus, method and computer-readable medium configured to transport a constituent of fluid sample that binds to a functionalized magnetic particle. The apparatus includes a substrate connected to an input port, a magnetic nanowire, and either a temporally changing magnetic field generator or a spin-polarized current source. The magnetic nanowire is disposed in a surface of the substrate. The width and thickness of the magnetic nanowire are configured so that a domain wall propagating along the nanowire in response to the temporally changing magnetic field continuously couples to a superparamagnetic particle introduced into the input port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09024631&OS=09024631&RS=09024631
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 09024631
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111115
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(c) from U.S. Provisional Pat. Ser. No. 61\/413,805 entitled \u201cHigh Speed Transport and Detection of Superparamagnetic Particles by Wire with Nanoscale Cross Section\u201d filed Nov. 15, 2010, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.","This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DMR-0819762 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","Magnetophoresis is the motion of dispersed magnetic particles relative to a fluid under the influence of a magnetic field. The movement of magnetic particles can be used to detect or isolate specific components in the fluid, using specific binding and or capture. Such magnetic particles can be manipulated by applying an external field, which exerts a force in proportion to the gradient of the field. In most work to date, field gradients have been applied using macroscale (millimeter scale and larger, where 1 millimeter, mm, =10meters) electromagnet systems, or microscale (micrometer scale, where 1 micrometer, \u03bcm, also called a micron=10meters) lithographically-defined field-generating circuits. These approaches are inherently long-range and are difficult to scale down to single-particle control. Moreover, the large fields and field-gradients require several amps of current in field-generating circuits, posing a major challenge in device design, power dissipation, and heating.","Conventional systems for manipulating magnetic particles using magnetic field gradients have involved bench-top approaches requiring large, sophisticated machines. In addition to the power and heating issues associated with such conventional systems as described above, the cost of such systems has been high, and their speed has been low.","An apparatus, method and computer-readable medium configured to transport a constituent of fluid sample that binds to a functionalized magnetic particle. The apparatus includes a substrate connected to an input port, a magnetic nanowire, and either a temporally changing magnetic field generator or a spin-polarized current source. The magnetic nanowire is disposed in a surface of the substrate. The width and thickness of the magnetic nanowire are configured so that a domain wall propagating along the nanowire in response to the temporally changing magnetic field continuously couples to a superparamagnetic particle introduced into the input port.","This description of exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings, which are to be considered part of the entire written description. In this description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.","Methods and apparatuses are described for high speed transport and detection of superparamagnetic particles by wire with nanoscale cross section with the potential for detection of individual particles. For example, some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a novel approach for scaling down to the microchip level the precise manipulation of nanoparticles. In some embodiments, the highly localized stray magnetic field of magnetic domain walls in ferromagnetic nanowires is used as a mobile traps for capturing and transporting a particle. On-chip magnetic circuits are described for the controlled transport, sorting, and sensing of magnetic nanoparticles and magnetically-tagged specimens. This technology enables cheap, fast, and simple devices for medical diagnostics and chemical detection with nanoscale control and single-particle sensitivity.","Some embodiments of the present disclosure are described below in the context of biological assays using superparamagnetic nanoparticles (or magnetic beads including agglomerates of superparamagnetic nanoparticles) with a maximum dimension of 10 microns or less. However, embodiments are not limited to this context. In other embodiments, systems can be used for transport, filtering, or purification of organic or inorganic analytes, or some combination thereof, depending on the functionalization of the superparamagnetic particles of nanometer or micron scale or some combination.","Paramagnetism is a form of magnetism that occurs in the presence of an externally applied magnetic field. Paramagnetic materials are attracted to such applied magnetic fields. A superparamagnetic (SPM) material is magnetized by an externally applied magnetic field with a magnetic susceptibility much larger than that of a paramagnetic material. Superparamagnetic (SPM) properties are observed in ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic nanoparticles.","A stationary or propagating transition in the orientation of magnetic moments of a ferromagnetic material is often confined to a spatially limited area called a magnetic domain wall (simply, a domain wall or DW hereinafter). A domain wall is the localized topological transition between two uniformly magnetized domains in a ferromagnet. As a domain wall is a local discontinuity in an otherwise uniform magnetic texture, a domain wall is magnetically charged and endowed with a localized stray field having a large gradient. A stray field is a magnetic field induced by moving electric charges or changing magnetic fields. Domain walls can form and propagate in response to a change in the magnitude or direction of an externally applied magnetic field or a spin-polarized current. The properties of a propagating domain wall are well predicted for a wire that is much longer than its width or thickness. As used herein, a nanowire refers to a metal strip of arbitrary length and having a thickness less than about 100 nanometers (nm, 1 nm=10meters) and width of a few microns or less. A magnetic nanowire refers to a magnetic metal strip of such dimensions.","As described in more detail below, for wires of magnetic material with a nanoscale cross section, such as nanowires, the magnetic gradients associated with the domain wall may be matched to capture a superparamagnetic particle. Furthermore, the resulting magnetic interactions slow the propagation speed of the domain wall. With appropriate selection of parameter values such as wire material, width, and thickness, and strength of an applied magnetic field, as described further below, the adjusted domain wall speed may be made to compensate for viscous drag on the particle, e.g., in the context of viscosity-limited propagation along extended straight-line continuous magnetic nanowire tracks. Thus, the particle may be captured (\u201ctrapped\u201d) and transported by the continuously-moving domain wall, unlike any approaches previously employed. Continuous transport may be implemented by a single domain wall, such that a particle is trapped and transported by a single potential well.","Domain Wall and Interaction with Superparamagnetic Particle","A domain wall is capable of a near-field interaction with nearby magnetically-susceptible objects. In particular, superparamagnetic (SPM) nanoparticles, or agglomerates of such particles, are drawn to regions of high magnetic field with a force in proportion to the gradient of the field. This magnetophoretic force is used to manipulate superparamagnetic particles in colloidal suspensions such as ferrofluids, or to manipulate surface-functionalized SPM particles bound to biological or chemical entities. Surface functionalization refers to engineering the surface of a particle with a particular chemistry (e.g., with a coating including molecules or binding agents) to develop a chemical affinity for a target species. Surface-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles have previously been used in macro-scale biological and chemical sorting and separation applications.","Found in bulk magnetic materials and thin films, domain walls are extended objects that behave stochastically as elastic lines in a disordered medium. However, by confining a domain wall in a narrow thin-film nanowire, narrow, particle-like domain walls can be stabilized and controlled using external magnetic fields or electrical currents passed through the wire, via spin-transfer torque. A nanowire may be a planar ferromagnetic strip of length L, width w, and thickness t, with L>>w>t. The width w may be several hundred nm, but possibly up to several microns, and the ratio w\/t is typically about 10, with the thickness 1 about 5 to 100 nm. A magnetic field H along the wire length exerts an effective force on the wall, which force (discussed further below) tends to displace the domain wall along the wire.","The speed of domain walls propagating freely in magnetic nanowires is typically on the order of hundreds of meters per second (m\/s). In order to avoid launching a domain wall forward while leaving behind a viscously-stuck SPM particle, domain wall-assisted transport has conventionally been limited to structures such as zig-zags and rings, where the magnetic field driving the domain wall was never applied parallel to a long, straight \u201cstraightaway\u201d wire segment. The forces involved in viscosity-limited magnetic field-driven free-translation of tightly-bound DW\/SPM particle pairs along nanowire straightaways are discussed below, including estimates of the maximum velocities that may be achieved and the conditions for achieving coupled translational dynamics.","The magnetostatic interaction between a DW and a SPM particle results in a local mutual potential well that can bind the two together. A SPM particle experiences a force in direct proportion to an applied magnetic field gradient. A domain wall responds to the field. The magnetic field along the wire length exerts an effective force on the wall proportional to the Zeeman energy difference on either side:\n\n=2\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere Uis the Zeeman energy, x is position along the length of the wire, \u03bcis the permeability of free space, Mis the saturation magnetization, and H is the component of the applied field along the wire axis.\n","Under conditions that the DW-SPM pair remains bound (coupled) and translates together, its terminal velocity is determined by balancing the field-driven force with the viscous drag on the coupled pair. An isolated field-driven domain wall has a terminal velocity \u03bd=\u03bcH (in the low-field regime), with \u03bc=\u03b3\u0394\/\u03b1. Here, \u0394 is the domain wall width, \u03b3 is the gyromagnetic ratio, and \u03bc is the Gilbert damping coefficient. The domain wall mobility, \u03bc, is hence finite and limited by the finite damping coefficient \u03b1. The domain wall motion can be phenomenologically described in terms of the balance between the Zeeman force on the domain wall and a magnetic viscosity given by:\n\n\u2248\u2212(2\u03bc)\u2003\u2003(2)\n","Consider a 1 \u03bcm SPM bead bound to a domain wall in a 200 nm\u00d740 nm. Permalloy nanowire. Permalloy refers to a nickel-iron magnetic alloy, typically with about 20% iron and 80% nickel content, and with a high magnetic permeability (\u03bc), low coercivity, near zero magnetorestriction, and high anisotropic magnetoresistance. For such a SPM bead bound to a domain wall, the ratio of the fluidic drag on the particle to the magnetic viscosity-induced drag on the domain wall is about 10, so the fluidic drag determines the terminal velocity of the pair:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"0"},{"mi":["M","s"]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"tw"},{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","\u03b7","R"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"H"},{"mi":["\u03be","H"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}],"mo":"\u2261"}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"where \u03b7 is the dynamic viscosity of the fluid, R is the radius of the bead (or particle generally) and the second equality defines a \u201ccoupled mobility\u201d parameter \u03be.","For the particle\/wire parameters in the running example, we estimate \u03be\u22481.3 (mm\/s)\/(A\/m), or \u02dc100 (\u03bcm\/s)\/Oe, where A represents Amperes of SI units and Oe represents Oersteds of cgs units. Hence, large particle velocities (e.g., 10-100 times higher than the highest velocities of magnetophoretic motion) may be achieved with a modest applied field, as long as the magnetostatic binding is sufficiently large.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","104","102","104","106","102","104","104","104"],"sub":["drag","bind ","bind","Zeeman","drag"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["{right arrow over (F)}","|=|{right arrow over (F)}","|=|{right arrow over (F)}"]},"The binding force may range from tens to hundreds of picoNewtons (pN, 1 pN=10Newtons).","As long as the equalities in Eqn. (4) are satisfied, the coupled system moves at the terminal velocity given by Eqn. (3).","Thus, in some embodiments, a magnetic domain wall and a trapped particle are moved in unison by applying a directed force to the domain wall, rather than to the particle.","Physical Conditions and Calculations for Fast Coupled Transport.","In lithographically-fabricated micro- and nanowire guide structures, edge defects, roughness, and other inhomogeneities lead to domain wall pinning on defects. This results in a minimum magnetic driving field that is applied in order to displace the domain wall along the wire. Once that field threshold (depinning field) is reached, the domain wall moves forward at its viscosity-limited velocity. If the depinning field is larger than the maximum field that can be applied before the Zeeman force exceeds the maximum magnetostatic binding force, then as soon as the depinning field threshold is reached, the domain wall will move rapidly forward and leave the particle behind. Hence, it is a condition that the maximum effective binding field between the domain wall and the particle exceed the field threshold required to drive the domain wall through a structure. Typical domain wall depinning fields in magnetic thin-film micro- and nanowire structures are approximately 5 Oe to 30 Oe or higher.","In order to estimate the maximum velocities and maximum longitudinal driving fields possible for viscosity-limited long-range particle transport, micromagnetic simulations of domain wall structure have been combined with numerical integration of the resulting stray fields to compute magnetostatic binding potential energy surfaces. The computation of such potential energy surfaces enables the modeling of the interaction between domain walls and SPM particles over a matrix of wire cross sectional dimensions and bead diameters. The maximum binding force depends on the details of wire geometry, wall topology, and particle dimensions. The critical binding field, or maximum longitudinal drive field that can be applied before the particle and domain wall are separated, is calculated as 65 Oe for a 1 \u03bcm diameter SPM bead on a 200 nm wide by 40 nm thick Permalloy wire, corresponding to an estimated hydrodynamic velocity limit of about 8 mm\/s.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","220","230"],"sub":["bind ","b ","max ","bind ","Zeeman","Zeeman ","max "]},"The particle transport speeds achieved in some embodiments, on the order of millimeters per second, are several orders of magnitude faster than speeds previously achieved for magnetophoresis of superparamagnetic particles by conventional techniques.","Thus, single-particle velocities ranging from about 1-10 mm\/s are achieved for micron-sized magnetic beads for magnetic fields on the order of 10 Oe, orders of magnitude smaller than those required for traditional magnetophoretic motion, and eliminating the need for an externally applied field gradient. Domain wall-based devices in accordance with various embodiments hence offer very fast single-particle transport over arbitrary magnetic tracks that can be implemented using standard lithography. As described below, this magnetically-based platform is easily integrated with magnetic-sensitive detection to provide new integrated functionalities in lab-on-chip applications. In some embodiments, components are integrated with existing microfluidics-based devices to enhance functionality, or combined to produce a completely domain-wall-actuated architecture for particle transport, meteorology, particle sorting, or some combination thereof.","Monitoring of Domain Wall Position and Velocity","The position and velocity of the domain wall (e.g., when coupled to a particle) may be monitored with a magneto-resistive material. A magneto-resistive material has an electrical resistance that depends on the orientation of the magnetic moments in the material.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","300","302","306","304","302","306","312","310","304","312","306","312"]},"Thus, by constructing a nanowire conduit using this bilayer structure, domain wall motion occurs in the magnetically soft top layer , and the position and speed of the domain wall  can be monitored electrically. This can be used as a velocimetric sensor by monitoring the resistance in time. The rate of change of the resistance is proportional to the domain wall velocity, which varies dramatically between loaded (bound to a particle) and unloaded configurations. For a loaded domain wall, the velocity scales inversely with the viscosity of the particle, which provides a means to distinguish between variously-sized beads, or the size of their tethered bio-cargo.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["352","354","356"],"sub":["1","2","2 "]},"In some embodiments, the interaction between the functionalized bead (or particle) and the substrate is used as a measurable discriminating feature to determine the bead's surface properties. For example, in some embodiments, such an interaction is used to determine whether the particle surface is decorated with bound analytes (i.e., detect the presence of analytes), and to quantify their surface-coating density (i.e., determine the concentration of analytes), for a sensitive bio-assay using each individual bead as a reaction substrate. By applying different functional surfaces to superparamagnetic particles of different sizes subject to different viscous drag forces, different analyte species may be detected based on the distribution of speeds detected using the magneto-resistive material.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","410","414","412","410"]},"A least one magnetic nanowire  is disposed in a surface in the microchannel , such as the bottom surface of the channel. A domain wall generator is located near one end of the nanowire, for the purpose of nucleating at least one domain wall. The generator may take the form of a geometrically-engineered magnetic structure in which domain walls can be nucleated using an external magnetic field (such as a magnetic pad contiguous with one end of the nanowire), or spin-polarized current source. Alternatively, the generator may be a local magnetic field generating circuit, such as a current-carrying wire crossing the nanowire such that the Oersted magnetic field from the current-carrying wire creates a reversed magnetic domain in the nearby region of the magnetic nanowire. Multiple domain wall generators may be located along the structure. An external magnetic field source  is configured to induce at least one domain wall to propagate in the magnetic nanowire  from the vicinity of the input port  to the vicinity of the output port . The other end of the nanowire is designed with dimensions to preclude the formation of a magnetic domain that could move from the output port towards the input port, and to provide for the annihilation of a domain wall arriving from the input port end. An example of such design is a taper of the nanowire into a triangular point, which is a termination point. A linear magnetic field directed along the nanowire is depicted, but in other embodiments, a rotating magnetic field is induced in a wire with circular or semicircular segments, as described further below.","In some embodiments, such as transport and sorting, the magnetic particles are transported with the domain walls that propagate along the nanowire based on the viscous drag on the superparamagnetic particles. In some embodiments, the speed distribution is measured by including the other layers  of a magneto-resistive material below at least a portion of the nanowire . In this portion, the electrical resistance change with time indicates the velocity of each coupled domain wall and particle. A distribution of speeds can be measured over time that indicates the relative occurrence of the different sized particles, or different sized loads on the same sized particles. The resistance change is detected by sensor  and converted to velocity and load distributions by processor . In some embodiments, the processor  also controls the operation of the external magnetic field source .","Various architectures may be used for long-distance transport of a bound particle: Straight-segment tracks may be used for long-distance mobility-limited transport as described above, and stepping structures may also be used for external field-paced transport. Each architecture may be employed in a larger-scale multifunctional device platform.","The linear transport conduit represents the simplest design approach. In terms of device scaleup, a key benefit of this design is simple and inexpensive lithography, as optical interference lithography patterns a series of submicron lines over centimeters of substrate quickly and easily. Single or multiple parallel transport tracks with this base structure are implemented in various embodiments. By providing a domain wall nucleation source (e.g., geometrically-defined pad) at one end, a simple, a single-axis step constant magnetic field may be used to propel the domain wall and bound particle the full track distance, at speeds ranging from about 0.1 to 10 mm\/s. In some embodiments, only one domain wall\/particle pair moves during each field step cycle for each track.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5B","b":["500","530","530","530"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["510","502","510","502","530","510","530","520","530","510","502","510","530","510"]},"Velocimetric Approach for Biological and Chemical Assays",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","620","630","640","620","630","642","644","640","650","640","620","630","620","620","630"]},"Domain walls carry individual magnetic beads  along a track -, -, etc. (collectively, tracks ) as described above, and in-line magnetoresistive sensors along straight-away segments  measure the viscosity-limited velocity to determine, on each field cycle, whether a particular domain wall is loaded with a magnetostatically-bound particle, and if so, the velocity and hence dynamic viscosity of the particle. Undulating segments  may be adjacent to the straight-away segments  as shown, and the tracks  may provide transport from an input port  to an output port  of assay system . Various numbers of tracks  may be used to provide parallelized assaying for high throughput.","The resulting velocity distribution of the dragged particles is used to determine the proportion of magnetic particles whose effective hydrodynamic radius has been altered by binding to the target antigen . Thus, the concentration of the target antigen  is determined in a digital fashion based on a change in size due to binding with load beads. The sensitivity is largely independent of concentration of the antigen , in contrast to conventional sensing assay systems that, if they are designed to maximize sensitivity, can overload at higher concentrations and hence have a relatively small working range of detectable concentrations.","In another embodiment, the binding of target molecules or chains themselves, without the bead, may lead to sufficiently different modification of the magnetic bead surface and its viscosity characteristics and\/or interactions with the substrate that would influence the effective dynamical drag. By measuring the velocity and velocity distributions of domain wall-dragged magnetic beads, or beads dragged magnetophoretically through a fluid, the concentration of target molecules or bio-entities in the input fluid specimen can be measured over a high dynamic range or concentration, down to the limit of digital detection.","In some embodiments, multiple sets of magnetic beads  and\/or nonmagnetic load beads  may be used for multiple assays on the same specimen simultaneously. In such a configuration, the actuation may be performed entirely using external magnetic fields, using integrated parallel domain wall-based transport conduits, with integrated velocimetric sensors, without the need for microfluidic pumps or other apparatuses. In addition, the sensing device itself may be non-specific, i.e., detection specificity is determined by the functionalization of the beads (which may be varied depending on the context), rather than of the sensors themselves, so the entire platform is generic and reconfigurable, unlike prior art assay systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","704","706","708"]},"In some embodiments, computer software or hardware is utilized to control the application of magnetic fields to induce the domain walls or to analyze the resulting speed distributions. Such process steps are implemented in a chip set or general purpose computer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","810","800","800"]},"A sequence of binary digits constitutes digital data that is used to represent a number or code for a character. A bus  includes many parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors  for processing information are coupled with the bus . A processor  performs a set of operations on information. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus  and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information, shifting positions of units of information, and combining two or more units of information, such as by addition or multiplication. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor  constitute computer instructions.","Computer system  also includes a memory  coupled to bus . The memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory  is also used by the processor  to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system  also includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information, including instructions, that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus  is a non-volatile (persistent) storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, for storing information, including instructions, that persists even when the computer system  is turned off or otherwise loses power.","Information, including instructions, is provided to the bus  for use by the processor from an external input device , such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user, or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus , used primarily for interacting with humans, include a display device , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD), for presenting images, and a pointing device , such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys, for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display  and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .","In the illustrated embodiment, special purpose hardware, such as an application specific integrated circuit (IC) , is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor  quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display , cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network, speech recognition, and interfaces to special external devices, such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.","Computer system  also includes one or more instances of a communications interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors, such as printers, scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link  that is connected to a local network  to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example, communication interface  may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus (USB) port on a personal computer. In some embodiments, communications interface  is an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments, a communication interface  is a cable modem that converts signals on bus  into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example, communications interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man-made variations in amplitude, frequency, phase, polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links, the communications interface  sends and receives electrical, acoustic or electromagnetic signals, including infrared and optical signals, that carry information streams, such as digital data.","The term computer-readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media include, for example, dynamic memory . Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. The term computer-readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , except for transmission media.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a compact disk ROM (CD-ROM), a digital video disk (DVD) or any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, or any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), a FLASH-EPROM, or any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer-readable storage media and special purpose hardware, such as ASIC .","Network link  typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to equipment  operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). ISP equipment  in turn provides data communication services through the public, world-wide packet-switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server  connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example, server  provides information representing video data for presentation at display .","Some embodiments of the present disclosure are related to the use of computer system  for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment, those techniques are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions, also called software and program code, may be read into memory  from another computer-readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory  causes processor  to perform the method steps described herein, e.g., to implement process . In alternative embodiments, hardware, such as application specific integrated circuit , may be used in place of or in combination with software. Thus, embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","The signals transmitted over network link  and other networks through communications interface  carry information to and from computer system . Computer system  can send and receive information, including program code, through the networks ,  among others, through network link  and communications interface . In an example using the Internet , a server  transmits program code for a particular application, requested by a message sent from computer , through Internet , ISP equipment , local network  and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, or may be stored in storage device  or other non-volatile storage for later execution, or both. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor  for execution. For example, instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system  receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra-red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra-red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface  receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus  carries the information to memory  from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory  may optionally be stored on storage device , either before or after execution by the processor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["900","900","900"]},"In one embodiment, the chip set  includes a communication mechanism such as a bus  for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor  has connectivity to the bus  to execute instructions and process information stored in, for example, a memory . The processor  may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi-core processor include two, four, eight, or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition, the processor  may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus  to enable independent execution of instructions, pipelining, and multithreading. The processor  may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors (DSP) , or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) . A DSP  typically is configured to process real-world signals (e.g., sound) in real time independently of the processor . Similarly, an ASIC  can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) (not shown), one or more controllers (not shown), or one or more other special-purpose computer chips.","The processor  and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory  via the bus . The memory  includes both dynamic memory (e.g., RAM, magnetic disk, writable optical disk, etc.) and static memory (e.g., ROM, CD-ROM, etc.) for storing executable instructions that when executed perform one or more steps of a method described herein. The memory  also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of one or more steps of the methods described herein.","Although examples are illustrated and described herein, embodiments are nevertheless not limited to the details shown, since various modifications and structural changes may be made therein by those of ordinary skill within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following will be apparent from elements of the figures, which are provided for illustrative purposes and are not necessarily to scale.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5B","b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
