---
title: System and method for observing a communication session
abstract: An approach is provided for initiating a service observing session by tracking a number of concurrent service observing sessions to an automatic call distributor, and selectively restricting the number of concurrent sessions based on a predetermined restriction criterion. Each of the service observing sessions is established for a user to monitor a voice call involving an agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442207&OS=08442207&RS=08442207
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08442207
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110315
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["Communications service providers are continually challenged to meet the customers' needs, manage customer relationship, and utilize call centers to develop new business and remain competitive. Customers can contact communication service providers via a variety of means\u2014e.g., by calling, emailing, chatting online, visiting websites, faxing, and etc.\u2014in to receive customer support. The monitoring of such communications (or \u201cservice observing\u201d) is typically used to train agents and observe their performance in dealing with customers to ensure high quality service. Unfortunately, with traditional customer support systems, the capability to monitor is greatly constrained by the number of concurrent monitoring sessions. Also, these systems conventionally utilize plain-old-telephone (POTS) technology, and thus, are inflexible with respect to how users (e.g., supervisors) can perform the monitoring, and to accommodating the many different types of communication sessions.","A preferred apparatus, method, and system for initiating a service observing session are described. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent, however, that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.","Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to a call center operated by the communication service provider itself, it is contemplated that the approach for providing service observing sessions has other applications. Additionally, the call center may be operated by a third party relative to the organization. Further, the agents may be located on-site, off-site, or a combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","103","101"]},"The primary interface between a communication service provider and its customers is a service agent. The agents' performance during a customer support call strongly influence the communication service provider's ability to deliver quality service\u2014e.g., addressing the customers' needs. By way of example, an agent's knowledge of product\/service offerings, experience and skills to resolve customer issues in real time, and training directly impact the agent's performance. Hence, to ensure that these agents perform well, appropriate monitoring of their activities is needed.","As mentioned, service monitoring of customer support communication sessions play a vital role in ensuring that customers' experiences are to their satisfaction. Conventionally, an observer (e.g., supervisor) can monitor, for instance, calls in progress either via a dedicated phone set or via a toll-free numbers. It is noted that in a typical scenario, the total service observing sessions may exceed third-party resource restrictions, such as a license number of a particular software application for call monitoring. Moreover, business rules (e.g., a call duration, not-to-call list, etc.) can be applied to initiate service observing sessions, to increase customer satisfaction and comply with law and regulation.","Therefore, there is a need for an approach that provides for rapid and efficient establishment of service observing sessions to assist a communications service provider in monitoring and training its agents, while complying with business rules and restrictions on the number of concurrent service observing sessions.","In this example, communication network  including a data network , telephony network , and wireless networks . It is contemplated that the data network  may be any local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), the Internet, or any other suitable network, such as a commercially owned, proprietary packet-switched network, e.g., a proprietary cable or fiber-optic network. The telephony network  may include a public switched telephone network (PSTN) or equivalent. It is also contemplated that the wireless network  may be, for example, a cellular network and may employ various technologies including, for example, code division multiple access (CDMA), enhanced data rates for global evolution (EDGE), general packet radio service (GPRS), global system for mobile communications (GSM), universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS), etc., as well as any other suitable wireless medium, e.g., microwave access (WiMAX), Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks, wireless fidelity (WiFi), satellite, and the like. Communication network  may include session control capabilities such as those provided by the Internet protocol multimedia subsystem (IMS). The communication network  supports a variety of communications sessions (e.g., voice, video, text messaging, electronic mail (e-mail), instant messaging, etc.) conducted on any device capable of communicating over the network .","In one embodiment, the call center service is a managed service, whereby a service provider operates the call center manager  to serve one or more customers (i.e., subscribers) . A call center supervisor can access the web-based system via any wired or wireless terminals  to initiate one or more service observing (SO) sessions. In another embodiment, once the supervisor logs in, the system automatically initiates at least one service observing session based on a predetermined business rule. The predetermined business rule may include a call duration, call on-hold times per call, answer\/seizure ratio (ASR), customer satisfactory level, etc., in order to improve the customer support service efficiency, effectiveness, and cost. In addition, the call center manager  restricts the number of concurrent service observing sessions based on a predetermined restriction criterion, such as the number of licenses obtained to operate call logging applications, call monitoring applications, etc.","In some embodiments, the communication device  is any fixed terminal, mobile terminal, or portable terminal capable of communication over the communication network . Examples of the communication device include a mobile smart phone, a mobile feature phone, a phone connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), a personal digital assistant (PDA), a personal computer (PC), as well as other like technologies and customer premises equipment (CPE). Within the system , call center , via a call center manager , provides the capability to dynamically initiate a service observing session over a communication network  available to a customer . By way of example, call center  can be a physical facility that houses call center human agents. A call center is often linked to a corporate computer network, including mainframes, microcomputers and LANs. To communicate with customers, the agents employ computing devices (e.g., a desktop computer, etc.), and telephone stations; such equipment along with the physical space occupied by the agent can constitute a \u201cworkstation.\u201d The call center , in one embodiment, can provide one or more supervisor stations, which permit monitoring of the agents' communications with the customers. In one embodiment, call enter  can be independently operated or networked with other call centers.","A customer  can utilize a number of different types of devices to connect to the network  and requires the services of the call center manager . In addition, multiple agents , can be monitored by supervising agents , , via one or more service observing sessions . In an exemplary embodiment, the call center manager  is resident within the call center . In addition (or alternatively), the call center manager  resides within customer premises equipment (CPE).","In operation, the call center manager  receives a request for service from a customer , and determines one or more service requirements based on the request. The manager  can then select agents  to service the request based on the service requirements of customer , and selectively initiate one or more service observing sessions  for some supervising agents , , etc. for monitoring the agents , , etc. By way of example, a supervisor at times monitors agents , to assist in responding to customer needs.","With call center services, the manner in which calls are routed can be based on one or more characteristics of the agent. For instance, these characteristics\/attributes can include: skill set, presence status, location, calendar information of the agent, communication capability of the agent, capabilities of the device or terminal of the agent, and mobility of the agent. These characteristics\/attributes are more fully described with respect to .","Under the scenario of , a customer experiences a technical problem with a particular service. Accordingly, a technical support call  is initiated by a customer via a mobile device to the call center . The call is received by ACD  and routed to an agent , who has technical knowledge and experience with field repairs. This agent may be a supervisor or a team leader of the agent . While the agent answering the call with his laptop and guiding the customer to perform a simple repair, the call center manager  establishes a service observing session for a supervising agent to monitor the call. In this example, the monitoring is triggered by the fact that the call duration has last over a typical duration, e.g., 15 minutes. In one embodiment, this can be affected based on a predetermined business rule.","According to another scenario, the agent encounters a problem, thus conferences in the supervising agent , constituting a service observing session. That is, the agent can initiate the service observing session, rather than the supervising agent ","In certain embodiments, call center  employs an automatic call distributor (ACD)  to process calls among the agents . Specifically, the ACD  distributes incoming calls from telephony network  to a specific group of terminals that agents use, and can be part of a computer telephony integration system that utilizes data network  to process voice calls. By way of example, ACD  routes these calls using a rule-based scheme\u2014e.g., the algorithm can determine the best available agent(s) to respond to a given incoming call based on one or more criteria. In one embodiment, to make this determination, ACD  can solicit and evaluate additional data (e.g., caller ID, interactive voice response (IVR), etc.) to determine the reason(s) for the incoming call. Such data can be collected from the customers .","Once routed, the calls can be monitored. With respect to monitoring of agents, a supervisor traditionally has two basic mechanisms: (1) using dedicated devices that are physically located in the call centers and always connected to the associated systems, or (2) to access such systems via placement of a toll free number into the public switched telephone network (PSTN). Under this approach, when logging in via an IVR\/phone interface, the call center supervisors have limited ability to select agents dynamically.","Typically, in an ACD based system, every monitored call session requires a software license. That is, control of the number of concurrent service observing sessions executed based on a third-party's resource (such as an ACD) is restricted by legal instruments, such as licenses, leases, service agreements, etc. The number of licenses required on the third-party software depends on the entire population of supervisors in one or more call centers exceeds a contracted restriction. This can be problematic if the population is of any significant size.","To address the described issue relating to concurrent service observing sessions, the call center manager  dynamically initiates these sessions based on a set of business rules. Such approach, in certain embodiments, leverages available third-party resources, supervisors, agents, and equipment capabilities to reduce the cost and time necessary for establishing the service observing sessions while enhancing quality of service to the customer.","As seen in , the call center manager  has connectivity to multiple agents -and one or more customers  via communication devices -, respectively, via the network . In some embodiments, one or more service observing sessions  are established among the agents  according to various parameters, e.g., business rules, third-party resources restrictions, the presence information of the agents , etc. In one embodiment, the business rules include call duration, call on-hold duration per call, call on-hold times per call, answer\/seizure ratios (ASR), max numbers of retries, call priority, call feedback, call service operational cost, call service performance, network capacity, network quality of service (QoS), 100% Do-Not-Call list compliance, or a combination thereof. These rules are more fully described with respect to .","In one embodiment, the third-party resources restrictions can include contractual restrictions involving the third party's hardware (e.g., equipment, storage capabilities, computing capabilities, network bandwidth, etc.), software (e.g., a number of concurrently operating licenses of third-party ACD software, etc.), as well as other resources impacting service observing sessions (e.g., staff, office\/warehouse space, etc.). These parameters are more fully described with respect to . By way of example, to achieve software license compliance through efficient software license management, call center manager  determines installed software products (e.g., ACD applications), maps installed software products to existing software licenses, and reports compliance status. This thus limits the likelihood of license breach and maximizes license utilization, thereby reducing cost.","Also, although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to a third party software license as a service observing session restriction, it is contemplated that the number of current service observing sessions may be restricted by other third-party resource restrictions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["109","109","201","117","201","201","117","117","111","111","201","201","111","111","109","111"]},"In a second mode, the module  is configured to process communications from\/to the agent  on behalf of a communication service provider.","As shown, the module  has connectivity to a customer profile database  and an agent profile database  to assist in making the selection of the appropriate agent. In exemplary embodiments, the customer profile database  stores information such as the history of service requests from the customer  and the agents  selected to service those prior requests. In certain embodiments, the module  uses the historical information in the customer profile database  to assist in the selection of the agents . In addition, the module  can store a record of a new selection of an agent  in the database , wherever the incoming call is forwarded to a different agent. In addition or alternatively, the historical information can be stored as part of the agent information associated with agent  in the agent profile database .","To monitor a call between an agent  and a customer , the call center manager  also provides a service observing session module  that accesses a business rule database , a third-party resource restriction database , and the agent profile database  to determine which agent(s) to initiate service observing sessions with. The detailed operation of the service observing session module  is further described with respect to . The exemplary data structures of the databases ,  and  are described with respect to .","The service observing session module  allows a supervisor to observe calls in progress on an on-demand basis, for instance. In one embodiment, the module  allows a supervisor to observe consecutive calls without reactivating a service observing session. The supervisor may activate a service observing session for an agent's call, even when the agent is not active on a call. By way of example, the supervisor enters a \u201cwait\u201d mode until the agent receives a call. When the agent receives the call, the supervisor is bridged onto the call.","In one embodiment, the module  interacts with the service observing session module  to select the appropriate agent , and optionally a service observing session  to handle the customer communication. By way of example, the call routing module  can apply an expert agent distribution (EAD) algorithm to route a call to the agent who is best qualified to handle the call, a most idle agent (MIA) algorithm to route a call to a least occupied agent while maintaining a minimum required skill level, etc.","According to certain embodiments, the components of the call center manager  (e.g., communication routing module , the service observing session module , etc.) implement business rules, third-party recourse restrictions, user information, and agent information using, for instance, standard presence protocols (e.g., Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE) and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)). SIMPLE and XMPP are examples of presence protocols that provide real-time or near real-time presence information. Specifically, SIMPLE uses the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) to register, manage, transmit, and receive presence information. XMPP provides similar capabilities using an open standard. Both protocols are extensible standards, which enables the incorporation of the agent information described herein through the additional information elements within the standard protocols.","The agent profile database  stores a listing of the identifiers of agents  and associated information such as characteristics of the agents. In certain embodiments, each agent  may update his or her own agent information via the module  through either a manual or automated process (e.g., automatically changing status from \u201con phone\u201d to \u201cavailable\u201d after completing a phone call, or changing location using location information from a location-aware mobile handset). It is also contemplated that the agent information may be updated by one or more other designated parties.","In one exemplary embodiment, the service observing session module  may operate in conjunction with a data collection module  (which may be implemented, for example, as a separate server) to collect, store, and distribute the agent information. By way of example, the agent information can originate from any number of sources (e.g., direct input from each agent ; input from a designated administrator; telemetry data from equipment associated with each agent such as location information from a location-aware mobile handset; information from other servers, etc.). The module  updates the agent information periodically to provide the modules ,  with the most current data.","In one exemplary embodiment, the call center manager  interacts with an external automatic call distributor (ACD)  to implement the functions of the communication routing module  and the service observing session module . In this embodiment, the ACD  receives a call from the customer , and then receives commands from the call center manager  to route calls and initiate service observing sessions. The ACD  can be a part of the call center , or alternatively, may be a third-party-operated system\u2014that is, not under the control of the provider of the call center .","In one embodiment, the functions of the ACD  are internal to the call center manager , and can be a standalone equipment or be integrated with other network component.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 6"],"b":["300","301","109","215"]},"A call detail record (CDR) is produced by a telephone exchange (usually including an ACD) containing details of a phone call that passed through it. A CDR may include data fields of a number of a calling party, a number of a called party, a starting time of a call, a call duration, a phone number charged for the call, an identifier of the telephone exchange writing the record, a sequence number identifying the record, additional digits on the called number used to route or charge the call, a result of the call (whether it was answered, busy, etc.), a route by which the call entered the exchange, a route by which the call left the exchange, a call type (e.g., voice, SMS, etc.), a fault condition encountered, etc.","An internet protocol detail record (IPDR) provides information of IP-based service usage and other activities that can be used by call centers, operational support systems (OSS), business support systems (BSS), etc. The content of the IPDR may be determined by the communication service provider, third party network\/service vendors, the IPDR industry association, etc. For specifying the particulars of IP-based services in a given context, an IPDR usually contains identification information of the users of the service, types of services used, quantity measurement unit types (e.g., Kilobytes or time), quantities of services used, QoS parameters, the date\/time the services were used, etc. In one embodiment, an IPDR contains information similar to a CDR with respect to a sequence of emails, a chat session, visiting websites, instant messaging, etc.","The call center manager  initiates one or more service observing sessions based on the business rule (step ). The service observing session may be initiated automatically or in response to a user request as later discussed with respect to the processes of . In some embodiments, the service observing session is initiated via the automatic call distributor . For example, after receiving a predetermined number of customer complaints about a particular agent, the call center manager  transmits a command to the automatic call distributor  for initiating at least one of the service observing session on the agent. A service observing sessions is then established with a user (e.g., a supervisor, team leader, manager, etc. working for or on behalf of the combination service provider) to monitor a voice call with the corresponding agent. In one embodiment, the observing session is initiated via a web-based application. The web-based application allows the user to access the call center  from various devices.","Moreover, the service observing session can be initiated based on additional information, such as a skill set of the agent, presence status of the agent, location of the agent, calendar information of the agent, communication capability of the agent, etc. In a typical scenario, multiple service observing sessions are established through the ACD ; however, as noted, this support for concurrent sessions can be costly and\/or prohibited by licensing requirements.","Accordingly, the call center manager  tracks the number of concurrent service observing sessions to the automatic call distributor  (step ), in order to comply with a restriction of the number of concurrent sessions. The call center manager  selectively restricts the number of concurrent sessions based on a predetermined restriction criterion (step ). In one embodiment, the restriction of the number of concurrent sessions is subject to the third party resource restrictions as later described in conjunction with . It is contemplated that the predetermined restriction criterion can be applied as part of the business rules. By way of example, the number of concurrent sessions is restricted for one communication service provider across one or more call centers. In another embodiment, the number of concurrent sessions is restricted for one communication service provider across one or more call logging applications, one or more call monitoring applications, or a combination thereof.","Call logging includes collecting call data, analyzing the data, and reporting on the network's cost, performance, capacity, quality of service, etc. A call logging application interprets the raw CDR and\/or IPDR data to produce graphical reports.","The call center manager  may display to the user one or more options associated with the corresponding service observing session. By way of example, the options includes interacting by the user with an agent, a customer, or a combination thereof, monitoring the corresponding service observing session, etc. As mentioned, service observing is used to train agents and observe in-progress calls. The observer (e.g., skilled supervisor) toggles between a listen-only mode, listen\/talk mode, etc. during calls in progress. The agent selection process can be based on certain attributes or characteristics, as illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 7"],"b":["320","320","109","321","209","209","209","109"]},"In step , the call center manager  extracts restriction criteria (e.g., a number and durations of concurrent licenses of service observing sessions, etc.) from the database . The extraction may be conducted periodically or triggered by database modifications. In step , the call center manager  can prioritize the restriction criteria (step ), based at least in part on the attributes of the restriction criteria (e.g., software license models), the business rules, additional business logic (e.g., sale calls are more important than customer complaint calls), or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the priority is embedded with knowledge of software license models and compliance requirements. The software license models may be defined by a time duration, by times of usage, by a number of concurrent licenses, etc. The compliance requirements may be defined by an expiration period, a total usage of service observing sessions per month, a maximum number of concurrent service observing sessions at any given time, etc. By way of example, the call center manager  prioritizes observing sessions of sale calls over observing sessions of customer complaint calls by allotting a longer observing session duration, more observing sessions within the total usage limitation, and\/or more concurrent observing sessions at a given time.","The call center manager  can apply, in real-time, the restriction criteria based upon the priority, and can track associated compliance status thereof (step ). Under the previous example, the call center manager  terminates the observing sessions of customer complaint calls before terminating the observing sessions of sale calls, when reaching the limitation on the permitted concurrent sessions. By way of example, when determining a unused and\/or underutilized third party resource (e.g., license), the call center manager  can suggest a new\/modified restriction criterion to the third party resource (step ) to reduce license cost. The call center manager  thus integrates license usage with compliance by maximizing licenses use while prohibiting license breach.","In another embodiment, the call center manager  sets a default time duration (e.g., three minutes) to each observing session. The call center manager  prioritizes extension requests for sale call observing sessions over extension requests for customer complaint call observing sessions, and maintains (initiate and\/or terminate) the maximum number of concurrent service observing sessions at any time point based upon the priority. The call center manager  thus fully utilizes the licenses and reduces software licensing cost per session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["400","109","115","111","401","109","215","109","109"]},"The call center manager  detects the triggering event (step ). The call center manager  retrieves data (e.g., attributes) on at least one agent and at least one supervisor based on the detected triggering event (step ). From the information of the triggering event, the call center manager  determines a set of service observing requirements (e.g., agent-specific skills and performance records, customer-specific request history, etc.). The call center manager  then retrieves the agent\/supervisor profile information and the customer profile information associated with the service observing sessions  and agents  that may potentially staff the service observing sessions. The call center manager  determines to initiate the one or more service observing sessions on the at least one agent by the at least one supervisor (step ). Before, during or after the initiation of the new service observing sessions, the call center manager  may determines and\/or execute termination of one or more existing service observing sessions based upon the restricting step  in .","By way of example, the triggering event is one specific business rule regarding customer complaints. Such a customer calls to challenge violations of a not-to-call list. Upon receiving such a complaint, the call center manager  lunches service observing sessions  on agents who committed violations before as well as on agents who served the complaining customer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","109","115","111","109","501","109","109"]},"After the user authentication, the call center manager  retrieves data on an agent and the user based on the request (step ). From the information in the request, the call center manager  determines a set of service observing requirements (e.g., agent-specific skills and performance records, customer-specific request history, etc.). The call center manager  then retrieves the agent\/supervisor profile information and the customer profile information associated with the service observing sessions  and agents  that may potentially staff the request. After retrieving the agent\/supervisor\/customer information associated with potential service observing sessions , the call center manager  evaluates the retrieved agent information against the determined service observing requirements of the supervisor to select which service observing sessions  and agents  can service the request.","The call center manager  applies certain business rules and third-party resource restrictions on the data (step ). After retrieving the business rules, the third-party resource restrictions, the selected agent information associated with the potential service observing sessions , the call center manager  evaluates the selected agent information against the business rules and third-party resource restrictions to select which service observing sessions  to initiate. The call center manager  then determines whether to initiate one or more service observing sessions based on the application results (step ). Before, during or after the initiation of the new service observing sessions, the call center manager  may determines and\/or execute termination of one or more existing service observing sessions based upon, for example, the restriction provided by process  of .","By way of example, to service a request from an online supervisor to monitor agents under his\/her supervision who have not closed any sale in the past three days, the call center manager  selects agents  whose agent information satisfying the conditions specified in the request and assigns them to service observing sessions  designated to service the online supervisor.","Another example of initiating a service observing session  is provided as follows based upon a third party resource restriction, such as a predetermined license restriction on currently use of an ACD application. In a first scenario, the call center manager  initiates service observing sessions for all user requests if determining the implementation of all the sessions will not exceed the predetermined license restriction. In a second scenario, the call center manager  initiates service observing sessions for some of the user requests if determining full implementation will exceed the predetermined license restriction. By way of example, the to be fulfilled user requests may be selected based on rules such as network\/exchange\/server capabilities, caller\/callee preferences, service contract terms and conditions etc. In a third scenario, the call center manager  does not initiate any service observing sessions if determining the predetermined license restriction has already been exceeded.","It is contemplated that call center manager  may select the service observing sessions  and\/or agents  based upon the agent\/supervisor\/customer profiles, business rules and third-party resource restrictions in any combination and any order than the above-described embodiments. It is contemplated that call center manager  may use the processes - alone or in any combination.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2","FIG. 6"],"b":["207","601","603","603"]},"The business rule information (i.e., attribute fields ) associated with each business rule record  can include the following fields: time , customer , agent , location , communication content , and quality of service . It is contemplated that additional attribute fields (e.g., attribute field j ) may be provided depending on the particular application. Further, in some embodiments, each attribute field  comprises one or more data fields . In this regard, the number k of data fields  for each attribute field  is dependent upon the level of detail desired.","In an exemplary embodiment, the time field  can specify information such as one or more time points, one or more time periods, one or more numbers of times of a triggering event\/activity of the business rule, etc. The customer field , can indicate the business rule's applicability to a particular customer as well as other information pertaining to the customer's preferences (e.g., privacy setting of the customer, etc.). The agent field  of the business rule can specify information relating to the skills, experience, performance, etc. of the agent. The location field  provides information pertaining to the applicable location of a business rule, e.g., a physical location of the agents, websites browsed by customers to reach call centers, etc. For example, the value of the location field  enables the call center manager  to select agents who are located near a particular geographic site to provide timely service.","Furthermore, the communication content field  provides information about the content, such as upcoming product promotions, technician chat room materials, etc. By leveraging communication content information , the call center manager  can assess an business rule's future availability in addition to the current availability of the business rule.","Additionally, the quality of service field  can specify the type of communication session (e.g., voice, video, instant messaging, chat, e-mail) in which the business rule can be applied. This capability, for instance, can be dictated by the type of communication device to assist the call center manager  in determining the types of communication sessions to be supported. It is contemplated that one or more of the characteristics in any combination can comprise the information to be a part the business rule.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2"],"b":["209","701","703","703","705","703","707","709","711","713","715","717","719","705","721"]},"In one embodiment, the publisher field  can include such information as the name, address, webpage, contact information, etc. of the software publisher. The vendor field  of the software resource provides information such as the vendor's name, address, webpage, contact information, etc. By way of example, the communication service provider can acquire a piece of software directly from the publisher, or via a vendor that provides maintenance as well. The product name  may include an official name, a nick name, etc. of the software. The version  of the software may specify whether it is a trial version, a beta version, as well as a version number, etc. The language field  of the software may be a spoken language, a computer language, etc. The license  of the software includes the number of licenses, the license country, whether the license is for a beta version, or the license is eligible for upgrade, etc. The exemplary attributes and corresponding data are pertained to software resources. It is also contemplated that different types of resources has different attributes and corresponding data. It is contemplated that exemplary embodiments may add, delete, or substitute any of the described characteristics. One or more of the characteristics in any combination comprise the third-party resource restriction information of the communication service provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 2","FIGS. 6 and 7"],"b":["211","801","803","1","805","803","807","809","811","813","815","817","819","805","821"]},"In an exemplary embodiment, the skill set field  of an agent  includes information such as the technical capabilities of the agent , language skills of the agent , knowledge base, areas of expertise, and\/or experience with specific users  or customers of the users . The presence status  of the agent  indicates information such as the agent's availability, along with other information, such as available to accept new requests, not available because the agent is with a customer, on break, or away from desk, etc.). The location  of the agent  indicates the agent's physical location. The calendar information  of the agent  provides information on upcoming appointments, scheduled absences, work schedule, etc. With the calendar information , the call center manager  can assess an agent's future availability in addition to the current availability. The communication capability  of the agent  indicates the type of communication session (e.g., voice, video, instant messaging, chat, e-mail) in which the agent  can engage. This capability, for instance, is dictated at least in part by the type of communication device  that the agent  is using. Finally, the mobility field  indicates whether the agent  can travel to a different location (e.g., to provide onsite support).","The described processes and arrangement advantageously enables the observer (e.g., skilled supervisor) to monitor calls in progress from any device at anywhere. The described processes and arrangement also implements business rules (e.g., a call duration, not-to-call list, etc.) and third-party resource restrictions (e.g., a limited number of software licenses), to enable communication service providers to comply with their contractual obligations, law, and regulations, while increasing customer satisfaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 10"],"b":["900","900","900","901","903","905","907","900"]},"According to exemplary embodiments, user interface  may include one or more displays , keypads , microphones , and\/or speakers . Display  provides a graphical user interface (GUI) that permits a user of mobile device  to view dialed digits, call status, menu options, and other service information. The GUI may include icons and menus, as well as other text and symbols. Keypad  includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls, such as one or more button controls, dials, joysticks, touch panels, etc. The user thus can construct customer profiles, enter commands, initialize applications, input remote addresses, select options from menu systems, and the like. Microphone  coverts spoken utterances of a user (or other auditory sounds, e.g., environmental sounds) into electronic audio signals, whereas speaker  converts audio signals into audible sounds.","Communications circuitry  may include audio processing circuitry , controller , location module  (such as a GPS receiver) coupled to antenna , memory , messaging module , transceiver  coupled to antenna , and wireless controller  coupled to antenna . Memory  may represent a hierarchy of memory, which may include both random access memory (RAM) and read-only memory (ROM). Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non-volatile memory, such as erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and\/or flash memory. Memory  may be implemented as one or more discrete devices, stacked devices, or integrated with controller . Memory  may store information, such as one or more customer profiles, one or more user defined policies, one or more contact lists, personal information, sensitive information, work related information, etc.","Additionally, it is contemplated that mobile device  may also include one or more applications and, thereby, may store (via memory ) data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions, business functions, calendar functions, communication functions, contact managing functions, data editing (e.g., database, word processing, spreadsheets, etc.) functions, financial functions, gaming functions, imaging functions, messaging (e.g., electronic mail, IM, MMS, SMS, etc.) functions, multimedia functions, service functions, storage functions, synchronization functions, task managing functions, querying functions, and the like. As such, control signals received by mobile device  from, for example, network  may be utilized by API(s)  and\/or controller  to facilitate remotely configuring, modifying, and\/or utilizing one or more features, options, settings, etc., of these applications. It is also contemplated that these (or other) control signals may be utilized by controller  to facilitate remotely backing up and\/or erasing data associated with these applications. In other instances, the control signals may cause mobile device  to become completely or partially deactivated or otherwise inoperable.","Accordingly, controller  controls the operation of mobile station , such as in response to commands received from API(s)  and\/or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers  may include, for example, both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller  may interface with audio processing circuitry , which provides basic analog output signals to speaker  and receives analog audio inputs from microphone . In exemplary embodiments, controller  may be controlled by API(s)  in order to capture signals from camera  or microphone  in response to control signals received from network . In other instances, controller  may be controlled by API(s)  to cause location module  to determine spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device . Still further, controller  may be controlled by API(s)  to image (e.g., backup) and\/or erase memory , to configure (or reconfigure) functions of mobile device , to track and generate device usage logs, or to terminate services available to mobile device . It is noted that captured signals, device usage logs, memory images, spatial positioning information, and the like, may be transmitted to network  via transceiver  and\/or wireless controller . In this manner, the captured signals and\/or other forms of information may be presented to users and stored to one or more networked storage locations, such as customer profiles repository (not shown), or any other suitable storage location or memory of (or accessible to) the components and facilities of system .","It is noted that real time spatial positioning information may be obtained or determined via location module  using, for instance, satellite positioning system technology, such as GPS technology. In this way, location module  can behave as (or substantially similar to) a GPS receiver. Thus, mobile device  employs location module  to communicate with constellation of satellites. These satellites transmit very low power interference and jamming resistant signals received by GPS receivers  via, for example, antennas . At any point on Earth, GPS receiver  can receive signals from multiple satellites, such as six to eleven. Specifically, GPS receiver  may determine three-dimensional geographic location (or spatial positioning information) from signals obtained from at least four satellites. Measurements from strategically positioned satellite tracking and monitoring stations are incorporated into orbital models for each satellite to compute precise orbital or clock data. Accordingly, GPS signals may be transmitted over two spread spectrum microwave carrier signals that can be shared by GPS satellites. Thus, if mobile device  is able to identify signals from at least four satellites, receivers  may decode the ephemeris and clock data, determine the pseudo range for each satellite  and, thereby, compute the spatial positioning of a receiving antenna . With GPS technology, mobile device  can determine its spatial position with great accuracy and convenience. It is contemplated, however, that location module  may utilize one or more other location determination technologies, such as advanced forward link triangulation (AFLT), angle of arrival (AOA), assisted GPS (A-GPS), cell identification (cell ID), observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA), enhanced observed time of difference (E-OTD), enhanced forward link trilateration (EFLT), network multipath analysis, and the like.","Mobile device  also includes messaging module  that is configured to receive, transmit, and\/or process messages (e.g., EMS messages, SMS messages, MMS messages, IM messages, electronic mail messages, and\/or any other suitable message) received from (or transmitted to) network  or any other suitable component or facility of system . As previously mentioned, network  may transmit control singles to mobile device  in the form of one or more API  directed messages, e.g., one or more BREW directed SMS messages. As such, messaging module  may be configured to identify such messages, as well as activate API(s) , in response thereto. Furthermore, messaging module  may be further configured to parse control signals from these messages and, thereby, port parsed control signals to corresponding components of mobile device , such as API(s) , controller , location module , memory , transceiver , wireless controller , etc., for implementation.","According to exemplary embodiments, API(s)  (once activated) is configured to effectuate the implementation of the control signals received from network. It is noted that the control signals are utilized by API(s)  to, for instance, remotely control, configure, monitor, track, and\/or capture signals from (or related to) camera , communications circuitry , and\/or user interface . In this manner, visual and\/or acoustic indicia pertaining to an environment surrounding mobile device  may captured by API(s)  controlling camera  and microphone . Other control signals to cause mobile device  to determine spatial positioning information, to image and\/or erase memory , to configure (or reconfigure) functions, to track and generate device usage logs, or to terminate services, may also be carried out via API(s) . As such, one or more signals captured from camera  or microphone , or device usage logs, memory images, spatial positioning information, etc., may be transmitted to network  via transceiver  and\/or wireless controller , in response to corresponding control signals provided to transceiver  and\/or wireless controller  by API(s) . Thus, captured signals and\/or one or more other forms of information provided to network  may be presented to users and\/or stored to one or more of customer profiles repository (not shown), or any other suitable storage location or memory of (or accessible to) the components and facilities of system .","It is also noted that mobile device  can be equipped with wireless controller  to communicate with a wireless headset (not shown) or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller ; for example, the headset can be BLUETOOTH enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device  has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of , it is contemplated that mobile device  may embody many forms and include multiple and\/or alternative components.","The described processes and arrangement advantageously enables initiation a service observing session over a network. The processes described herein for initiation a service observing session may be implemented via software, hardware (e.g., general processor, Digital Signal Processing (DSP) chip, an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), etc.), firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1001","1003","1001","1000","1005","1001","1003","1005","1003","1000","1007","1001","1003","1009","1001"]},"The computer system  may be coupled via the bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display, active matrix display, or plasma display, for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys, for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor  and for controlling cursor movement on the display .","According to an embodiment of the invention, the processes described herein are performed by the computer system , in response to the processor  executing an arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory . Such instructions can be read into the main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory  causes the processor  to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in the main memory . In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  connected to a local network . For example, the communication interface  may be a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or modem, an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, a cable modem, a telephone modem, or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example, the communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card (e.g. For Ethernet\u2122 or an Asynchronous Transfer Model (ATM) network) to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation, the communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further, the communication interface  can include peripheral interface devices, such as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, a PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) interface, etc. Although a single communication interface  is depicted in , multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.","The network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, the network link  may provide a connection through a local network  to a host computer , which has connectivity to a network  (e.g. A wide area network (WAN) or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d) or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network  and the network  both use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link  and through the communication interface , which communicate digital data with the computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.","The computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), the network link , and the communication interface . In the Internet example, a server (not shown) might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network , the local network  and the communication interface . The processor  may execute the transmitted code while being received and\/or store the code in the storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, the computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory, such as the main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic, optical, or electromagnetic waves, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer-readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example, the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario, the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA) or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory, from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 9","FIGS. 3-5"],"b":["1100","1100","1100"]},"In one embodiment, the chip set  includes a communication mechanism such as a bus  for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor  has connectivity to the bus  to execute instructions and process information stored in, for example, a memory . The processor  may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi-core processor include two, four, eight, or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition, the processor  may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus  to enable independent execution of instructions, pipelining, and multithreading. The processor  may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors (DSP) , or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) . A DSP  typically is configured to process real-world signals (e.g., sound) in real time independently of the processor . Similarly, an ASIC  can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) (not shown), one or more controllers (not shown), or one or more other special-purpose computer chips.","The processor  and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory  via the bus . The memory  includes both dynamic memory (e.g., RAM, magnetic disk, writable optical disk, etc.) and static memory (e.g., ROM, CD-ROM, etc.) for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory  also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.","While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein, other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly, the invention is not limited to such embodiments, but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
