---
title: Lubricating transfer tube
abstract: An example lubricating transfer tube assembly includes a transfer tube having a bore extending from a fluid inlet portion to a fluid outlet portion. The transfer tube is configured to communicate a fluid through the bore between the fluid inlet portion and the fluid outlet portion within a gearbox. The transfer tube defines a spray aperture extending from the bore to an outer surface of the transfer tube. The spray aperture is configured to communicate at least some of the fluid from the bore to an area of the gearbox.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08944216&OS=08944216&RS=08944216
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08944216
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110414
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT REGARDING GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00019-06-C-0081, and Subcontract No. 4500019224, awarded by the United States Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","This disclosure relates generally to a gearbox transfer tube and, more particularly, to a gearbox transfer tube that communicates some lubricant directly to an interior of the gearbox assembly.","Generators provide electric power as is known. Aircraft auxiliary power units, for example, typically include a generator that is driven by a turbine engine. The turbine engine is rotatably coupled to the generator through a gearbox.","Transfer tubes associated with the gearbox often carry fluid between different portions of the gearbox. The fluid moves from a first end of the transfer tube to an opposing, second end of the transfer tube. In one example, a transfer tube carries a lubricating fluid from a first side of the gearbox to an opposing, second side of the gearbox. The lubricating fluid is then communicated through one or more lubrication nozzles, which are separate from the transfer tube. The lubrication nozzles communicate a spray of lubricant directly to areas of the gearbox that need lubricating, such as interfaces associated with gears and bearings. Lubrication nozzles add complexity and weight to the gearbox assembly.","An example lubricating transfer tube assembly includes a transfer tube having a bore extending from a fluid inlet portion to a fluid outlet portion. The transfer tube is configured to communicate a fluid through the bore between the fluid inlet portion and the fluid outlet portion within a gearbox. The transfer tube defines a spray aperture extending from the bore to an outer surface of the transfer tube. The spray aperture is configured to communicate at least some of the fluid from the bore to an area of the gearbox.","An example auxiliary power unit gearbox assembly includes a housing establishing a gearbox cavity configured to receive a plurality of gears. A transfer tube establishes a bore. The transfer tube is configured to communicate a fluid from a first face of the housing to an opposing, second face of the housing. The transfer tube defines a spray aperture extending from the bore to a radially outer surface of the transfer tube. The spray aperture is configured to deliver a spray of the fluid to an area within the gearbox cavity.","An example method of lubricating an auxiliary power unit gearbox assembly includes positioning at least a portion of a gearbox transfer tube within a gearbox cavity of a gearbox. The method communicates lubricant through a bore of a gearbox transfer tube from a first end portion to second end portion of the transfer tube. The method moves some of the lubricant through an aperture in the transfer tube. The lubricant is moved directly to a portion of the gearbox cavity.","Referring to , an example auxiliary power unit assembly  includes a turbine engine  rotatably coupled to a generator  through a gearbox . The gearbox includes a plurality of gears  within a gear train. The gears  rotatably couple a shaft  of the turbine engine  to an input shaft  of the generator . The gears  may also rotatably couple other devices, such as a pump , to the shaft .","A lubricant l, or another type of fluid, moves from a lubricant supply  through a cooler  to the gearbox . The lubricant l moves along a lubricant path . The pump  is used to communicate the lubricant l along the lubricant path . The lubricant l is used to lubricate and cool at least the gears  within the gearbox .","The example lubricant path  includes a first conduit portion , a transfer tube , a second conduit portion , and a lubrication nozzle . In this example, the first conduit portion  and the second conduit portion  are located outside the gearbox , and the transfer tube  and the lubrication nozzle  are positioned within the gearbox .","The example transfer tube  is machined from aluminum. The example transfer tube  is sized to extend across a gearbox cavity from a first face of a gearbox housing to an opposing, second face of the gearbox housing. The example transfer tube  communicates the lubricant l across the gearbox cavity from the first conduit portion  to the second conduit portion . As can be appreciated, the transfer tube  communicates the lubricant l between the two opposing faces and ","Notably, at least some of the lubricant l moves away from the transfer tube  through a spray aperture . The lubricant l moving through the spray aperture  lubricates and cools at least some of the gears . The spray aperture  is axially spaced from the first face and the second face ","Referring to , the example transfer tube  includes a central section  that connects a first end portion  to a second end portion . In this example, the first end portion  establishes a fluid inlet that receives the lubricant l from the first conduit portion , and the second end portion  establishes a fluid outlet that communicates at least some of the lubricant l to the second conduit portion .","The central section  of the example transfer tube  extends along an axis X. The central section  establishes a cylindrical bore . The example spray aperture  extends radially relative to the axis X from the bore  to an outer surface  of the central section .","In this example, the spray aperture  is configured to communicate the lubricant l to a meshing location between a first gear  and a second gear . The lubricant cools and lubricates the meshing location between the gears  and . The gear  of the gearbox  rotates about an axis A. The axis X of the bore  is parallel to the axis A in this example, and the spray aperture  is perpendicular to the axis X.","In other examples, the locations, sizes, and quantity of the spray aperture  are varied based on the lubrication requirements. Also, although described as a \u201cspray\u201d aperture, the spray aperture  is not limited to spraying lubricant l. For example, the spray aperture may allow the lubricant l to drip onto the meshing location or some other location.","The first end portion  and the second end portion  of the transfer tube  are both cylindrical in this example. The first end portion  establishes an axis X, and the second end portion  establishes an axis X. Notably, the axis Xof the example first end portion  is the same as the axis X of the bore . That is, the first end portion  and the central section  are coaxial. By contrast, the axis Xof the example second end portion  is offset from the axis X of the bore  and the axis Xof the first end portion .","The positions of the first end portion  and the second end portion  relative to the central section  (including the axial positions) may be adjusted depending on the geometry of the gearbox  and the gears . In this example, the second end portion  and the bore  are axially offset to facilitate positioning the central section , and specifically the spray aperture  of the central section , near the meshing location while providing room to secure the second end portion . The offset functions as a clocking feature to circumferentially orient the central section . In another example, another clocking feature is used, such as a raised area of the second end portion  received within a notch. The raised area is only received in the notch when the central section  is circumferentially aligned to direct spray from the spray aperture  in a desired area.","The first end portion  is configured to be received within a recess  that is established within the first face of the gearbox housing. An O-ring  seals the radially outer interface between the recess  and the first end. The lubricant l moves from the first conduit portion  into the first end portion . The lubricant l then moves through the central section . Notably, the first conduit section  is not coaxial with the axis Xor the axis X, which may facilitate positioning the first end portion  in an area that avoids the gears  and other components. The first end portion  has a cup-shaped cross-sectional profile in this example (). The second end portion  has a similar cross-sectional profile.","The second end portion  is configured to be received within a recess  established within a cover  of the gearbox . The second end portion  includes an O-ring  to seal the radially outer interface between the second end portion  and the cover . Lubricant l communicates from the bore  to a cavity established within the second end portion  through the cover  to the second conduit portion .","Features of the disclosed example include a transfer tube that both transfers lubricant through a gearbox and communicates lubricant directly to areas of the gearbox requiring lubrication.","The preceding description is exemplary rather than limiting in nature. Variations and modifications to the disclosed examples may become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not necessarily depart from the essence of this disclosure. Thus, the scope of legal protection given to this disclosure can only be determined by studying the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["The various features and advantages of the disclosed examples will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the detailed description. The figures that accompany the detailed description can be briefly described as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"],"b":["8","8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
