---
title: Aluminium combustion power system
abstract: An engine that oxidizes aluminum with water to produce electrical and/or mechanical power. The engine can include a fuel made at least partly from aluminum powder that flows like liquid under high pressure. The engine can also include a steam supply system, a combustor, a fuel feed system, a fuel injection system, and a water supply system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08656724&OS=08656724&RS=08656724
owner: The Penn State Research Foundation
number: 08656724
owner_city: University Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110412
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/325,995 filed Apr. 20, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00024-02-D-6604, DO#0031, awarded by the US Department of the Navy, Naval Sea Systems Command. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention is related to an aluminum combustion power system, and in particular an aluminum combustion power system that reacts water with aluminum powder to produce molten aluminum oxide droplets, heat, steam, and hydrogen.","The use of internal combustion engines, batteries, jet propulsion, and the like to provide power to underwater vehicles is known. In addition, the use of batteries has exhibited limited success, however the energy density of battery powered systems has been less than desirable.","As an alternative, the chemical reaction of aluminum with water, fresh or salt, is known to be highly energetic and has been proposed as a basis for an energy producing system. The basic reaction between aluminum and water is\n\n2Al+3HO\u2192AlO+3H\u2003\u2003Equation 1\n\nwith the products of this reaction exhibiting temperatures up to 3800\u00b0 F. However, such temperatures and products have heretofore proven to be impractical for power systems that can provide a steady and sustained flow of energy. Therefore, even though the above chemical reaction is extremely energy favorable, the use of aluminum as a fuel to provide a reliable source of energy has proven evasive. Therefore, a power source that reacts aluminum with water and provides reliable power would be desirable.\n","The present invention discloses an engine that reacts aluminum with water to produce electrical and\/or mechanical power. The engine can include a fuel made at least partly from aluminum powder that flows like liquid under high pressure. The engine can also include a steam feedback system, a combustor, a fuel feed system, a fuel injection system, and a water supply system.","The combustor can have an inlet, an outlet, and a combustor wall, and the fuel feed system is operable to pump the fuel from a fuel tank to the combustor. The fuel injection system can mix steam that is fed back or recirculated from the combustor discharge via a small compressor or generated from a recuperator with the fuel and then spray the fuel and the steam mixture into the combustor. The water supply system can spray water into the combustor and the water can react with the aluminum powder to produce molten aluminum oxide droplets, heat, steam, and hydrogen. In addition, the water can solidify the molten aluminum oxide droplets before they contact the combustor wall and thereby prevent clogging of the combustor.","The aluminum powder can be coated, for example with a film of methysiloxane, such that the coated aluminum powder can be pumped through tubing having a length to diameter ratio of greater than 1000. In addition, the fuel feed system is operable to provide a steady flow of the coated aluminum powder at high pressure to the combustor. The mixture of aluminum powder and steam reacts with water in the combustor to produce the molten aluminum oxide droplets, heat, additional steam, and hydrogen. The water supply system can include a plurality of spray nozzles that can spray water into the combustor and cool the combustor wall. In addition, a high temperature separator downstream from the combustor can separate solidified aluminum oxide particles from an aluminum oxide particle-steam mixture that exits the outlet of the combustor. In this manner, steam without harmful and\/or erosive aluminum oxide particles can be provided to a steam turbine to produce electrical and\/or mechanical power.","The present invention provides an engine that reacts aluminum with water to produce electrical and\/or mechanical power. As such, the present invention has use as a power source.","The power system can include a combustor that is operable to accept aluminum powder mixed with steam. In addition, the combustor can have water sprayed thereinto, the water reacting with the aluminum powder to form molten aluminum oxide droplets, steam, heat, and hydrogen. In addition, sufficient water can be provided to the combustor such that excess steam is provided and used to drive\/power a steam turbine as is known to those skilled in the art.","The aluminum powder can be coated such that it flows like a liquid and can be provided from a fuel container to the combustor using a fuel line having a length to diameter ratio of greater than 1000. In addition, the aluminum powder can be mixed with the steam prior to entering the combustor such that the mixture expands like a gas upon entering a combustion zone. Aluminum particles can then react with water within the combustion zone via the chemical reaction of Equation 1 and as described in greater detail below. Water can also be introduced into the combustor such that it cools the walls thereof and solidifies molten aluminum oxide droplets formed by the reaction of the aluminum powder with the water. Cooling of the molten aluminum oxide droplets before they come into contact with the combustor wall prevents their accumulation thereon and thus prevents clogging of the combustor. As such, aluminum oxide particles plus steam exit the combustor and enters a high temperature separator that affords for the removal or separation of solidified aluminum oxide particles from the steam. Thereafter, the steam can be provided to a steam turbine which rotates to provide mechanical and\/or electrical power. It is appreciated that a recuperator, condenser, low temperature separator, steam compressor, etc., can also be included as part of the power system in order to increase power output, efficiency, safety and the like.","A reaction in which excess water can be included to regulate the product temperature of aluminum reacting with water can be:\n\n2Al+3HO+XHO\u2192AlO+3H+XHO\u2003\u2003Equation 2\n\nwhere X moles of excess water can be included to regulate the temperature of a system that burns aluminum in this manner. In some instances, the X moles of excess diluent water can appear in the products as X moles of superheated steam and the steam can be used to provide energy, for example through the use of a steam turbine. It is appreciated that the number of moles of excess water required can depend on the product discharge temperature and the temperature of liquid water added to the reaction. For example, a product temperature in the vicinity of 1500\u00b0 F. will result in a gaseous mixture of 97.5% steam.\n","While Equation 2 is relatively simple and energetically favorable, sustaining such a reaction using readily available cold seawater can be difficult. In particular, solid aluminum does not appreciably react with cold water. As such, and as discussed in more detail below, the present invention affords for high temperature steam to be provided to the reaction of aluminum with water. The aluminum can readily react with the high temperature steam in order to provide sufficient heat to maintain the AlO\u2014HO reaction and drive a steam turbine, preheat cold seawater, and the like. In some instances, more or less than 3 moles of steam might be supplied per every two moles of fuel with evaporating diluent water serving as reactant water if necessary.","Turning now to , a \u201cblack box\u201d illustration of an inventive aluminum combustion power system is shown generally at reference numeral . The power system  can include an input of aluminum  and liquid water . Reaction of the aluminum  with the liquid water  results in the production of aluminum oxide , hydrogen gas , and heat . In addition, mechanical or electrical power  can be produced from the power system , for example through the use of steam to drive a steam turbine.","It is appreciated that if the system  is used underwater, only aluminum  is needed to be stored since liquid water  can be provided by the environment. Such a system is analogous to a motor vehicle or an airplane carrying a liquid hydrocarbon fuel and using oxygen\/air from the surrounding environment.","In addition to maintaining the reaction of aluminum with water, the aluminum oxide  can be formed as molten liquid droplets with a melting\/solidification temperature approaching 3800\u00b0 F. Such droplets can impinge on a surface of the system  and cause accelerated corrosion, slagging, and the like. In particular, slagging can result in the buildup of aluminum oxide on internal surfaces of the system  and thereby result in clogging of the power system .","Referring now to , an inventive aluminum combustor that can prevent clogging of a power system is shown generally at reference numeral . The aluminum combustor  can include a combustor can  with an injection tube . Aluminum  and steam  can be premixed within the injection tube  and allowed to react within the combustor can  to provide a stoichiometric combustion cloud . The combustor can  can have a combustor interior wall  which provides a physical barrier to the combustion cloud . In order to prevent overheating and\/or slagging of the combustor interior wall , one or more water sprayers  can provide coolant , e.g. water, to cool the combustor interior wall  and quench aluminum oxide droplets that have formed in the combustion cloud . In some instances, the combustor can  can be cylindrical shaped with a plurality of sprayers  spaced apart and providing liquid spray  as shown in ","For example, and for illustrative purposes only, illustrates a cylindrical combustor can  with six liquid sprayers  operable to provide liquid spray into the combustor can  and thereby cool the combustor interior walls  and\/or quench liquid aluminum oxide droplets before reaching the interior walls . It is appreciated that the liquid spray  can also provide water which can be heated and evaporated into steam and thereby provide a steam shroud  within the combustor can . Additional water spraying nozzles  may or may not be provided to enhance the cooling of the combustor interior walls  and\/or evaporation of water. As shown in the figure, hot gas and fly ash in the form of aluminum oxide particles  can exit the combustor can  through an exit . It is appreciated that the combustor  can provide pressurized and\/or superheated steam which can be used to power a steam turbine, extract heat therefrom, and the like.","Turning now to , a schematic diagram of an aluminum combustion power system is shown generally at reference numeral . In addition to the combustor , which can in fact be a compact superheated steam generator, a high-temperature separator  can be located downstream from the combustor  and afford for separation of more than 99% of the aluminum oxide particles from the oxide particle-steam mixture exiting the combustor . In addition, any remaining particles can be less than one-half (0.5) micron in diameter and thereby pass through a turbine  safely. The turbine  may or may not have a direct drive with a high-speed alternator , the alternator  operable to generate alternating current which can be rectified and otherwise conditioned to provide a regulated direct current voltage. In some instances, the turbine  and alternator  can be water cooled and use water lubricated hybrid bearings.","It is appreciated that exhaust from the turbine  can contain considerable energy content and, as such, a recuperator  can be used to transfer heat from the turbine exhaust to liquid water in the form of incoming seawater, freshwater and\/or water condensed from the exhaust steam. By preheating water supplied to the combustor water sprayers , more water can be added to the combustor  in order to maintain a desired combustor discharge temperature. The additional water added to the combustor  can be converted into steam and thereby increase steam flow from the combustor  and through the turbine . In this manner, the output power from the turbine  and the overall efficiency of the system  can be increased. It is appreciated that the hydrogen flowing out of the recuperator represents a considerable potential energy source and in certain instances may be directed to a secondary combustor, electrochemical fuel cell of other conversion system to enhance overall system efficiency.","Cooler steam leaving the recuperator  can be condensed in a condenser  to liquid water and thereafter discharged to a low-temperature separator . The low-temperature separator  can separate gaseous hydrogen which may or may not be pumped overboard with any residual aluminum oxide. In some instances, a portion of hydrogen compressed in the low-temperature separator can be retained for feed system use. In addition, a water pump  can pump surrounding seawater, freshwater and\/or steam condensate from the low-temperature separator  and raise the pressure of the liquid to above the pressure in the combustor  for use in the water sprayers .","A steam compressor  can also be included and provide high-temperature steam for combustion of the aluminum powder. In some instances, clean steam can be taken from the high-temperature separator , passed through the steam compressor , and mixed with aluminum powder from the fuel feed system . In addition, temperature(s) of the aluminum powder fuel and steam from the steam compressor  at the inlet  of the combustor  can be controlled and\/or reduced by addition of liquid water.","Referring specifically to the flow of the aluminum powder, -illustrate an embodiment of the fuel feed system . It is appreciated that the flow of aluminum particles under pressure can be an area of concern for an aluminum power system with uneven flow rates, clogging of fuel lines and the like known to be problem areas. However, the fuel feed system  having aluminum particles  can include treatment of the particles with a silane, e.g. methylethoxysilane, such that polarizable surface groups such as hydroxyl groups can be replaced with siloxane groups or other non-polarizable, hydrophobic terminal groups and result in the: (1) elimination and\/or reduction of van der Waals forces; (2) elimination and\/or reduction of susceptibility to triboelectric augmentation of cohesion between the particles; and\/or (3) suppression of cohesion due to capillary condensation.","The treatment can include providing a monolayer thick film of siloxane onto the surface of the aluminum particles and placing the particles in the cylinder of a piston-cylinder device. A piston  that has a funnel shape on one face and a flat shape on an opposite face can be forced, e.g. by gas pressure, into the fuel . The conical face of the piston  can then move into the fuel, thereby forcing the fuel to flow through a screen . In addition, inert gas can be forced into the fuel  through an inlet line , and as the piston  moves into the fuel  and the fuel passes through a fuel line , the inert gas in the interstitial spaces of the fuel can expand and provide a dense-phase fluidized particulate flow.","In some instances, a coiled flexible fuel line  having a \u215b-inch diameter with a 1\/16-inch bore can be used to provide aluminum powder to the combustor . For example and for illustrative purposes only, such a fuel line  can provide sufficient aluminum powder fuel for a 100 hp\/75 kW turbine output. In addition, a metal rod can be used to move with the piston  so that a position of the piston can be known as a function of time, thereby allowing for a fuel flow rate to be calculated.","An alternative embodiment of a fuel feed system is shown in  at reference numeral . The fuel feed system  can have a container  with a bladder  that has aluminum powder fuel  therewithin. Pressure can be applied to a back side of bladder  in the region  and a feeder transport  can be used to provide the aluminum powder  to an exit orifice . In some instances, the feeder transport  can have a shaft  with an arbor plate , the shaft  and arbor plate  acting as a screw drive to transport the powder  from within the bladder  to the exit . In addition, aluminum oxide particles that exit from the combustor  can be separated from the steam\/fly ash mixture and placed in the area  around the back side of the bladder  which was previously occupied by the aluminum powder . In this manner, the aluminum oxide particles can be stored on or within an underwater vehicle.","The invention is not restricted to the illustrative examples and\/or embodiments described above. The examples and\/or embodiments are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Methods, processes, apparatus, compositions, and the like described herein are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. As such, it is the following claims, including all equivalents, that define the scope of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["b ","b","b ","a; "],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
