---
title: Computer method for in-memory (CO-PA) clients and corresponding computer system
abstract: A method includes generating at a client, operating on a user computer, a URL request having URL parameters according to a representational state transfer (REST) protocol, transmitting the URL request from the client to a gateway, which is operating on a server computer, and extracting via the gateway the URL parameters according to the REST protocol. The method further includes generating via the gateway a query for hosted content identified by the URL parameters, transmitting the query to the database, generating a search report for the query, and transmitting the search report from the database to the gateway. The method further includes encoding via the gateway the search report in an XML representation according to the REST protocol, and transmitting the search report in the XML representation from the gateway to the client where the client decodes the search report in the XML representation via the REST protocol for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429189&OS=08429189&RS=08429189
owner: SAP AG
number: 08429189
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20111216
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention generally relates to computing, and more particularly relates to a computer system and a computer method for serving hosted content to a user computer using a low level transmission protocol, which is platform independent.","Unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in the background section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in the background section.","Computer systems are increasingly being configured for hosted applications and hosted content. A hosted application is typically a computer application operating on a set of server computers where a user computer operating a client application (i.e., \u201cclient\u201d) is configured to access the hosted application via a network, such as an intranet, the Internet, or the like. The user computer is configured to access the hosted application for use of the hosted application. The hosted application might operate on hosted content that is stored in a database accessible by a server computer, which is operating the hosted application.","Hosted content, such as business content, tends to be relatively large and access to the hosted content via a hosted application tends to be relatively slow. A user using her user computer to request hosted content may desire that the hosted content be delivered relatively quickly, such as within a few seconds. However, receiving hosted content, such as relatively large business content, from a server in such a relatively short time is often not possible.","Thus, there is a need for improved computer systems that are configured to serve hosted content relatively quickly. Embodiments of the present invention are directed at computer system configured to serve hosted content to a variety of user computers, including tablet computers and other mobile devices, relatively quickly.","The present invention generally relates to computing, and more particularly relates to a computer system and a computer method for serving hosted content to a user computer using a low level transmission protocol, which is platform independent.","In one embodiment the present invention includes a computer-implemented method operable on a computer system for hosted-content retrieval. The computer-implemented method includes receiving at a client, which is operating on a user computer, a user request for hosted content stored in a database, and generating at the client a URL request having URL parameters according to a representational state transfer (REST) protocol. The computer-implemented method further includes transmitting the URL request from the client to a gateway, which is operating on a server computer, and extracting via the gateway the URL parameters from the URL request according to the REST protocol. The computer-implemented method further includes generating via the gateway a database query for hosted content identified by the URL parameters, and transmitting via the gateway the database query to the database. The computer-implemented method further includes generating in the database via an in-memory database engine a search report for the database query, and transmitting the search report from the database to the gateway. The computer-implemented method further includes encoding via the gateway the search report in an XML representation according to the REST protocol, transmitting the search report in the XML representation from the gateway to the client; and decoding via the client the search report in the XML representation via the REST protocol for use by the client.","According to one specific embodiment, the computer-implemented method further includes presenting a graphical representation of the search report on the user computer subsequent to the decoding step.","According to another specific embodiment, the search report generated by the in-memory database engine is an SQL report.","According to another specific embodiment, the search report is generated based on an analytical view of the database and the hosed data stored in the database.","According to another specific embodiment, the database request is an SQL request.","According to another specific embodiment, the transmitting steps are executed via a network.","According to another embodiment of the present invention a non-transitory computer readable medium is configured to store computer code to control a computer system for hosted-content retrieval according to the method steps described immediately above.","According to another embodiment of the present invention a computer system for hosted-content retrieval includes a user computer operating a client configured to: receive a user request for hosted content stored in a database, generate URL request having URL parameters according to a representational state transfer (REST) protocol, and transmit the URL request from the client to a gateway operating on a server computer. The computer system further includes a server computer operating the gateway configured to: extract the URL parameters from the URL request according to the REST protocol, generate a database query for hosted content identified by the URL parameters, and transmit the database query to a database. The computer system further includes a database operating an in-memory database engine configured to generate a search report for the database query; and transmit the search report from the database to the gateway. The server computer operating the gateway is further configured to encode the search report in an XML representation according to the REST protocol, and transmit the search report in the XML representation from the gateway to the client. The user computer operating the client is further configured to decode the search report in the XML representation via the REST protocol for use by the client.","According to a specific embodiment of the present invention the computer system operating the client is configured to present a graphical representation of the search report on the user computer subsequent to the decoding step.","The following detailed description and accompanying drawings provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention.","Described herein are a computer method for computer systems for serving hosted content to a user computer using a low level transmission protocol, which is platform independent.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be evident, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below, and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","105","110","115","120","125","105","120","120","125","105","110","125"]},"Server computer  may be configured to operate a server operating system and may include a non-transitory memory . Non-transitory memory  may be configured to store computer code that may be executable by the server computer or by a set of server computers. Each user computer may include a non-transitory memory  (labeled , . . . in ) on which computer code may be stored. The computer code may be executable by the user computers. A non-transitory memory may include semiconductor memory, optical memory, magnetic memory, or the like. The computer code stored on non-transitory memories  and  may encode the computer methods described herein and during operation may carry out the steps of the computer method embodiments described herein.","A user computer may be a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a mobile device, or the like. A tablet computer may be an iPad\u2122 type device or the like. A mobile device may be a smartphone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), or the like. It is noted that tablet computers are sometimes included in a category of user computers, which includes mobile devices.","According to one embodiment, server computer  is a business-objects server. According to a further embodiment, server computer  is an advanced business application programming (ABAP) application server, which is a specific type of business objects server. ABAP is a high-level programming language created by SAP AG of Germany, and is a language that may be used for programming the server computer for building applications that provide services, such as building business applications. According to a further embodiment, a gateway  is configured to operate on server computer . Gateway  is described in further detail below.","Computer storage  is configured store a database  of hosted content . Hosted content  may be business data and may specifically be CO-PA (controlling-profitability analysis) data. The CO-PA data may be configured to provide a profitability accounting and the like for users of the user computers. More specifically CO-PA data is a form of business data of SAP AG, which provides for the evaluation of market segments, which can be classified according to products, customers, orders or any combination of these. CO-PA data may also be organized and classified for strategic business units, such as sales organizations or business areas, with respect to a company's profits or contribution margins.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","150","120","205","110","150","150","105","150","105"],"i":"a"},"The URL request may be generated by the client with URL parameters generated according to the representational state transfer (REST) protocol. The URL parameters identify the hosted content requested by the client. The REST protocol specifies a \u201cstyle\u201d of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems such as the Internet. The REST protocol and the REST style of software architecture are substantially client independent, which provide that the URL request may be generated by a variety of clients operating on a variety of user computers, such as the types of user computers described above, including tablet computers and mobile devices. The REST protocol and the REST style of software architecture is well understood by those of skill in the art and will not be described in detail herein.","At a step , client  operating on one of the user computers is configured to issue the URL request via network  to server computer . At a step , server computer , and more specifically gateway , is configured to receive the URL request via computer network .","At a step , gateway  is configured to extract the URL parameters from the URL request according to the REST protocol, which was used by the client to generate the URL request. At a step , the gateway is configured to generate a database query for the database based on the URL parameters. The database query is configured to request the hosted content identified by the URL parameters. The database query may be an SQL (structured query language) query generated via an \u201canalytic view\u201d of the database and the hosted content. An analytic view of a database defines an overall structure of the hosted content stored in the database. SQL queries are well understood by those of skill in the art and will not be described in detail herein.","At a step , the gateway via the server computer is configured to transmit the database query to the database via the computer network, and at a step  the database is configured to receive the database query.","According to one embodiment, the database includes an in-memory computing engine , which is configured to identify a search result for a database query and based on the search result generate a result report. At a step , the in-memory computing engine determines a search result for the database query based on the analytic view of the database and the hosted content. At a step , the in-memory computing engine is configured to generate a result report, such as an SQL result, based on the search result for the database query generated at step . SQL results for database queries are well understood by those of skill in the art and will not be described herein. At a step , the result report (e.g., an SQL result) is transferred from the database to the server computer. At a step  the server computer, and more specifically gateway , is configured to receive the result report from the database.","At a step , the gateway is configured to generate an XML (extensible markup language) representation of the search report according to the REST protocol. At a step , the gateway via the server computer is configured to transfer the XML representation of the search report to the user computer via the computer network. At a step , the user computer, and more specifically the client, is configured to receive the XML representation of the search report. At a step , the client is configured to decode the XML representation of the search report according to the REST protocol and at a step  present a graphical representation of the search report on the user computer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 2","FIG. 3B","FIGS. 3A and 3B"],"b":["300","305","200","310","200","100","200"]},"The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present invention along with examples of how aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments, and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present invention as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims, other arrangements, embodiments, implementations and equivalents will be evident to those skilled in the art and may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
