---
title: Methods, apparatuses and computer program products for generating indexes using a journal in a key value memory device
abstract: An apparatus for generating indexes of data may include a processor and memory storing executable computer code causing the apparatus to at least perform operations including obtaining an order number responsive to receipt of a request from a device to index an item(s) of data. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to map the order number to a key value and link the key value to the data and provide one or more index entries to a memory device to enable storage of the index entries. The index entries may include information corresponding to the key value and the data. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to assign a new index row(s) including the data for inclusion in a set of index rows of a designated partition(s) to obtain a built index(es) of the data. Corresponding methods and computer program products are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977616&OS=08977616&RS=08977616
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08977616
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20111118
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["An example embodiment of the invention relates generally to indexing management and more particularly, relates to a method, apparatus, and computer program product for generating one or more indexes.","The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks, television networks, and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion, fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands, while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.","Current and future networking technologies continue to facilitate ease of information transfer and convenience to users. Due to the now ubiquitous nature of electronic communication devices, people of all ages and education levels are utilizing electronic devices to communicate with other individuals or contacts, receive services and\/or share information, media and other content. One area in which there is a demand to increase ease of information transfer relates to efficient and reliable indexing of databases. In this regard, database indexing may improve speed of data retrieval from a database and may result in increased storage space.","However, as scale increases, for example, the number of rows of a database, it may become necessary to partition indexes, both to maintain query performance and to accommodate the limitations of individual physical storage systems. At present, building reliable partitioned indexes in the presence of concurrent updates of data may present challenges. For instance, currently concurrency problems may be solved by having a single process control an index build. However, this may impose severe limitations on throughput and high latency for index build requests.","Additionally, presently, indexes are typically difficult to scale up and difficult to distribute. For example, adding multisite replication, scalability, performance, reliability and other requirements may make the indexing even more difficult to achieve.","In view of the foregoing drawbacks, it may be beneficial to provide an efficient and reliable mechanism of generating highly scalable, reliable and multisite capable indexes.","A method, apparatus and computer program product are therefore provided for enabling provision of an efficient and reliable mechanism of generating one or more indexes for inclusion of data. In this regard, an example embodiment may create highly scalable, reliable, multistate capable indexes based in part on utilizing data of a journal(s) in a reliable memory device (e.g., a key value storage device).","Additionally, some example embodiments may, but need not, split one or more indexes across multiple devices which may utilize the data of the journal(s) and data of the memory device (e.g., a key value database) to generate one or more new indexes or to add one or more index rows to the existing indexes.","In this regard, a communication device (e.g., a network device) may write data to be indexed to the journal(s) of a reliable memory device (e.g., the key value database (also referred to herein as a key value store)) and one or more devices may utilize the data of the journal and other data of the memory device to build one or more indexes. As such, an example embodiment may enable any suitable number of indexes to be run or executed. Moreover, in an example embodiment, one or more indexes may be partitioned to utilize N journals, and the N journals may be distributed via a memory (e.g., a storage unit) to M sites. For example, the data in any one journal may be \u2018logically partitioned\u2019 by means of the format of the keys. Journals may also be replicated to different sites. Indexes may be built on each site according to a partitioning strategy encoded in the journal's keys.","In one example embodiment, a method for generating indexes of data is provided. The method may include obtaining an order number in response to receipt of a request from a first device to index one or more items of data and mapping the order number to a key value and linking the key value to the data. The method may further include enabling provision of one or more index entries to a memory device to enable storage of the index entries. The index entries may include information corresponding to the key value and the data. The method may further include assigning at least one new index row including the data for inclusion in a set of index rows of at least one designated partition to obtain at least one built index of the data.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus for generating indexes of data is provided. The apparatus may include a processor and a memory including computer program code. The memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the processor, cause the apparatus to at least perform operations including obtaining an order number in response to receipt of a request from a first device to index one or more items of data and mapping the order number to a key value and linking the key value to the data. The memory and the computer program code may further cause the apparatus to enable provision of one or more index entries to a memory device to enable storage of the index entries. The index entries may include information corresponding to the key value and the data. The memory and the computer program code may further cause the apparatus to assign at least one new index row including the data for inclusion in a set of index rows of at least one designated partition to obtain at least one built index of the data.","In another example embodiment, a computer program product for generating indexes of data is provided. The computer program product includes at least one computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code instructions stored therein. The computer executable program code instructions may include program code instructions configured to obtain an order number in response to receipt of a request from a first device to index one or more items of data and map the order number to a key value and link the key value to the data. The program code instructions may also enable provision of one or more index entries to a memory device to enable storage of the index entries. The index entries may include information corresponding to the key value and the data. The program code instructions may also assign at least one new index row including the data for inclusion in a set of index rows of at least one designated partition to obtain at least one built index of the data.","An example embodiment of the invention may provide a better mechanism for generating one or more indexes in a reliable and highly scalable manner. As such, device users may enjoy improved capabilities with respect to indexing of data and for retrieving the data from one or more generated indexes.","Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. As used herein, the terms \u201cdata,\u201d \u201ccontent,\u201d \u201cinformation\u201d and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted, received and\/or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Moreover, the term \u201cexemplary\u201d, as used herein, is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment, but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus, use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.","Additionally, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 refers to (a) hardware-only circuit implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and\/or digital circuitry); (b) combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and\/or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c) circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of \u2018circuitry\u2019 applies to all uses of this term herein, including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 also includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and\/or portion(s) thereof and accompanying software and\/or firmware. As another example, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 as used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a cellular network device, other network device, and\/or other computing device.","As defined herein a \u201ccomputer-readable storage medium,\u201d which refers to a non-transitory, physical or tangible storage medium (e.g., volatile or non-volatile memory device), may be differentiated from a \u201ccomputer-readable transmission medium,\u201d which refers to an electromagnetic signal.","As referred to herein, a journal(s) may be a chronological record(s) of one or more data processing operations that may be utilized, in part, to construct, build, generate or restore a one or more indexes. The one or more indexes may be stored within one or more memories, one or more databases, one or more computer system(s), one or more computer files, or the like.","As referred to herein, a \u201cpartition(s),\u201d \u201cpartitioning\u201d or the like may relate to a division of a memory device(s), a database(s), or the like or a division of data, content, information or the like of a memory device(s), a database(s), or other memory element(s), into distinct parts for storage of data (e.g., a predetermined amount or predetermined allocation of data).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","20","30","25","10","20","25"]},"The network  may include a collection of various different nodes (of which the second and third communication devices  and  may be examples), devices or functions that may be in communication with each other via corresponding wired and\/or wireless interfaces. As such, the illustration of  should be understood to be an example of a broad view of certain elements of the system and not an all inclusive or detailed view of the system or the network . Although not necessary, in one embodiment, the network  may be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of First-Generation (1G), Second-Generation (2G), 2.5G, Third-Generation (3G), 3.5G, 3.9G, Fourth-Generation (4G) mobile communication protocols, Long Term Evolution (LTE) or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), Self Optimizing\/Organizing Network (SON) intra-LTE, inter-Radio Access Technology (RAT) Network and\/or the like. In one embodiment, the network  may be a point-to-point (P2P) network.","One or more communication terminals such as the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be in communication with each other via the network  and each may include an antenna or antennas for transmitting signals to and for receiving signals from one or more base sites. The base sites could be, for example one or more base stations (BS) that is a part of one or more cellular or mobile networks or one or more access points (APs) that may be coupled to a data network, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), and\/or a Wide Area Network (WAN), such as the Internet. In turn, other devices such as processing elements (e.g., personal computers, server computers or the like) may be coupled to the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  via the network . By directly or indirectly connecting the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  (and\/or other devices) to the network , the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the other devices or each other. For example, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  as well as other devices may communicate according to numerous communication protocols including Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and\/or the like, to thereby carry out various communication or other functions of the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and , respectively.","Furthermore, although not shown in , the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may communicate in accordance with, for example, Radio Frequency (RF), Near Field Communication (NFC), Bluetooth (BT), Infrared (IR) or any of a number of different wireline or wireless communication techniques, including Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless LAN (WLAN), Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Ultra-Wide Band (UWB), Wibree techniques and\/or the like. As such, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the network  and each other by any of numerous different access mechanisms. For example, mobile access mechanisms such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA), CDMA2000, Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and\/or the like may be supported as well as wireless access mechanisms such as WLAN, WiMAX, and\/or the like and fixed access mechanisms such as Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), cable modems, Ethernet and\/or the like.","In an example embodiment, the first communication device (e.g., the mobile terminal ) may be a mobile communication device such as, for example, a wireless telephone or other devices such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), mobile computing device, camera, video recorder, audio\/video player, positioning device, game device, television device, radio device, or various other like devices or combinations thereof. The second communication device  and the third communication device  may be mobile or fixed communication devices. However, in one example, the second communication device  and the third communication device  (e.g., network device  of ) may be servers, remote computers or terminals such as personal computers (PCs) or laptop computers.","In an example embodiment, the network  may be an ad hoc or distributed network arranged to be a smart space. Thus, devices may enter and\/or leave the network  and the devices of the network  may be capable of adjusting operations based on the entrance and\/or exit of other devices to account for the addition or subtraction of respective devices or nodes and their corresponding capabilities.","In an example embodiment, the mobile terminal as well as the second and third communication devices  and  may employ an apparatus (e.g., apparatus of ) capable of employing an embodiment of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["50","50","10","20","25","50","30","50","10"]},"Referring now to , the apparatus  may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor , a user interface , a communication interface , a memory device , a display , an index data source module  and an index search module . In one example embodiment, the display  may be a touch screen display. The memory device  may include, for example, volatile and\/or non-volatile memory. For example, the memory device  may be an electronic storage device (e.g., a computer readable storage medium) comprising gates configured to store data (e.g., bits) that may be retrievable by a machine (e.g., a computing device like processor ). In an example embodiment, the memory device  may be a tangible memory device that is not transitory. The memory device  may be configured to store information, data, files, applications, instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention. For example, the memory device  could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively, the memory device  could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . As yet another alternative, the memory device  may be one of a plurality of databases that store information and\/or media content (e.g., pictures, videos, etc.). The memory device  may store one or more applications  (also referred to herein as application(s) ). The application(s)  may include one or more computer instructions, software code, software instructions or the like. In an instance in which the application(s)  is executed by the processor , the application(s)  may automatically select and designate data (e.g., generated profile records, etc.) for indexing in a database(s) or memor(ies). The application(s)  may communicate the designated data to the index data source module , which may request a network device(s) to index the designated data, as described more fully below. The memory device  may also store data received from one or more network devices.","The apparatus  may, in one embodiment, be a mobile terminal (e.g., mobile terminal ) or a fixed communication device or computing device configured to employ an example embodiment of the invention. However, in one embodiment, the apparatus  may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words, the apparatus  may comprise one or more physical packages (e.g., chips) including materials, components and\/or wires on a structural assembly (e.g., a baseboard). The structural assembly may provide physical strength, conservation of size, and\/or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. The apparatus  may therefore, in some cases, be configured to implement an embodiment of the invention on a single chip or as a single \u201csystem on a chip.\u201d As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein. Additionally or alternatively, the chip or chipset may constitute means for enabling user interface navigation with respect to the functionalities and\/or services described herein.","The processor  may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example, the processor  may be embodied as one or more of various processing means such as a coprocessor, microprocessor, a controller, a digital signal processor (DSP), processing circuitry with or without an accompanying DSP, or various other processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), a microcontroller unit (MCU), a hardware accelerator, a special-purpose computer chip, or the like. In an example embodiment, the processor  may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device  or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may represent an entity (e.g., physically embodied in circuitry) capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform the algorithms and operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However, in some cases, the processor  may be a processor of a specific device (e.g., a mobile terminal or network device) adapted for employing an embodiment of the invention by further configuration of the processor  by instructions for performing the algorithms and operations described herein. The processor  may include, among other things, a clock, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .","In an example embodiment, the processor  may be configured to operate a connectivity program, such as a browser, Web browser or the like. In this regard, the connectivity program may enable the apparatus  to transmit and receive Web content, such as for example location-based content or any other suitable content, according to a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), for example.","Meanwhile, the communication interface  may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware, a computer program product, or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and\/or transmit data from\/to a network and\/or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard, the communication interface  may include, for example, an antenna (or multiple antennas) and supporting hardware and\/or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network (e.g., network ). In fixed environments, the communication interface  may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such, the communication interface  may include a communication modem and\/or other hardware\/software for supporting communication via cable, digital subscriber line (DSL), universal serial bus (USB), Ethernet or other mechanisms.","The user interface  may be in communication with the processor  to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface  and\/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical or other output to the user. As such, the user interface  may include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, a display, a touch screen, a microphone, a speaker, or other input\/output mechanisms. In an example embodiment in which the apparatus is embodied as a server or some other network devices, the user interface  may be limited, remotely located, or eliminated. The processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface, such as, for example, a speaker, ringer, microphone, display, and\/or the like. The processor  and\/or user interface circuitry comprising the processor  may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor  (e.g., memory device , and\/or the like).","The index search module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control). In some other example embodiments, the index search module  may be a processor, coprocessor, controller, microprocessor or other processing element including integrated circuits (for example, embodied as an ASIC or FPGA) or circuitry configured to execute instructions, which may be stored in the memory device , or perform other logical functions or corresponding operations described herein. In an example embodiment, the index search module  may generate one or more search requests for data that may be sent to one or more devices (e.g., network device  of ), as described more fully below. In response to receipt of the request(s), the device (e.g., a network device) may send the requested data to the index search module . The requested data may, but need not, be data that was previously requested by the index search module  to be indexed by the device (e.g., a network device (e.g., network device  of FIG. )), as described more fully below.","In an example embodiment, the processor  may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the index data source module. The index data source module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the index data source module , as described herein. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (e.g., the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means.","The index data source module  may generate one or more requests for data to be indexed (e.g., in a database(s), memory or the like). In this regard, in response to receipt of an indication, by the index data source module , that a user of the apparatus  desires for designated or selected data (e.g., profile data, etc.) to be indexed, the index data source module  may send a message to a network device(s) (e.g., network device  of ) to write a new index row(s) in one or more databases or memories. The new index row(s) to be may correspond to the data. In an example embodiment, the index data source module  may communicate with an application(s) (e.g., application ) and may automatically send a message(s) including data (e.g., generated profile records, etc.) designated, by the application(s), for indexing to a network device(s) and may request the network device to write a new index row(s) for the designated data in one or more databases or memories.","Referring now to , a block diagram of an example embodiment of a network device for indexing data is provided. In an example embodiment, the network device may build or generate one or more indexes (e.g., distributed indexes, inverted indexes, etc.). In this regard, the network device  may generate one or more indexes for arranging data, content, information or the like. In an instance in which the data is indexed, the network device may retrieve the indexed data and may send the data to one or more other devices (e.g., apparatuses ), as described more fully below. As shown in , the network device  (e.g., a server (e.g., communication device )) generally includes a processor  and an associated memory .","The memory  may comprise volatile and\/or non-volatile memory. For example, the memory  may be an electronic storage device (for example, a computer readable storage medium) comprising gates configured to store data (for example, bits) that may be retrievable by a machine (for example, like processor ). In some example embodiments, the memory  may be configured to store information, data, content, files, applications, instructions (e.g., computer instructions) or the like for enabling the network device  to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments of the invention. For instance, the memory  may store content, data, information, and\/or the like transmitted from, and\/or received by, the network device . Also for example, the memory  may store client applications, instructions, and\/or the like for the processor  to perform the various operations of the network device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, as described herein. In an example embodiment, the memory  may store indexed data. The memory  may optionally include one or more databases  (also referred to herein as database(s) ). The database(s)  may store data, content, information or the like. For instance, in an example embodiment, the database(s)  may store all or some portion of indexed data.","In addition to the memory , the processor  may also be connected to at least one interface or other means for displaying, transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like. In this regard, the interface(s) may comprise at least one communication interface  or other means for transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like, as well as at least one user input interface . The user input interface , in turn, may comprise any of a number of devices allowing the network device to receive data from a user, such as a keypad, a touch display, a joystick or other input device. In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user input interface. The processor and\/or user interface circuitry of the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor (e.g., volatile memory, non-volatile memory, and\/or the like).","The processor  may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example, the processor  may be embodied as one or more of various processing means such as a coprocessor, microprocessor, a controller, a digital signal processor (DSP), processing circuitry with or without an accompanying DSP, or various other processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), a microcontroller unit (MCU), a hardware accelerator, a special-purpose computer chip, or the like. In an example embodiment, the processor  may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory  or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may represent an entity (e.g., physically embodied in circuitry) capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform the algorithms and operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However, in some cases, the processor  may be a processor of a specific device (e.g., a network device or a mobile terminal) adapted for employing an embodiment of the invention by further configuration of the processor  by instructions for performing the algorithms and operations described herein. The processor  may include, among other things, a clock, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .","In an example embodiment, the processor  may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the application programming interface (API) . The API  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the API , as described below. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (e.g., the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means.","The API  may communicate with the index data source module  of the apparatus . In this regard, the API  may receive one or more requests from the index data source module  to index one or more items of data, as described more fully below. Additionally, the API  may communicate with the index search module  and may receive one or more requests to search data from the index search module  of an apparatus . In response to communicating with the index partition  and searching one or more partitions for the requested data, the API  may provide the requested data to the index search module . The requested data may, but need not, be indexed data.","In response to receipt of a request, for example, from the index data source module , to index one or more items of data, the API  may communicate with the order generator  and may obtain a requested order number from the order generator . The order number may be mapped, by the API , to a key value that may be assigned to the items of data requested to be indexed. In this regard, the requested items of data to be indexed and the corresponding key value may be linked by the API . As such, the API  may store the key value linked to the items of data to be indexed in the key\/value store . The API  may store the requested items of data to be indexed with the linked key value in the key\/value store  via one or more write index entries, as described more fully below. By enabling storage of the key value linked to the data to be indexed, the API  may enable the index builder  to find the corresponding data entries which may be utilized in an instance in which one or more indexes may need to be built and\/or rebuilt. The key values and associated (e.g., linked) items of data for indexing may be part on a journal(s), which may include one or more journal entries. The journal entries may include one or more data operations, as described more fully below. One or more actions associated with the data operations may be performed by the index builder  and\/or processor  during a build of an index or addition of an index row(s) to an existing index.","The key\/value store  may be a storage unit or a memory device such as, for example, a volatile and\/or non-volatile memory. The key\/value store  may store one or more items of requested data to be indexed and one or more key values, order numbers or the like. In addition, the key\/value store  may, but need not, store the indexed data and any other suitable data. The key\/value store  may also provide a manner in which to enable the index builder  to build and\/or rebuild one or more indexes based in part on one or more values of a key(s) and corresponding (e.g., linked) data.","The index builder  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the index builder , as described below. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (e.g., the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means. The index builder  may build or generate one or more indexes of data based in part on one or more items of data received from the index data source module . The items of data received from the index data source module  may be received in a request(s) or message(s), requesting the network device  to index the items of data.","The index builder  and\/or the API  may request an order number from the order generator  and in response to receipt of the request, the order generator may respond by providing a next expected (e.g., sequential) order number (also referred to herein as order token) to the index builder  and\/or the API . The index builder  may read one or more index entries (e.g., a newly stored index entry, for example by API ) from the key\/value store .","The partition is encoded in a journal key and although there is one index builder  shown in network device  of , there may be multiple index builders without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Each of the multiple index builders may handle the keys for a defined set of partitions. The number of rows of the data of a partition(s) may be based on the size of the data. In this regard, the index builder  may build an index(es) and may instruct the index partition  to add a row(s) to a set of rows for the selected\/designated partition(s). It should be pointed out that the index builder  may read one or more index entries from the key\/value store  based on a key value(s), which may be mapped to a corresponding order number(s) and one or more items of data to be indexed. The key value(s) may also be associated (e.g., linked) with one or more partition identifiers (IDs) and a number of rows of data corresponding to the order number. The partition ID(s) may be associated with a partition(s) that the index builder  is configured to utilize for indexing one or more items of data. In an instance in which the set of rows for a partition(s) reaches a predetermined size (e.g., the partition is full), the index builder  may write data to the key\/value store  indicating that the partition(s) reached the predetermined size and may specify that the partition(s) is full.","The order generator  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the order generator , as described herein. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (e.g., the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means. The order generator  may receive a request from the API  for an order number to be utilized for an index entry by the API . In response to receipt of the request for the order number, the order generator  may request and obtain a corresponding order number from the index builder . In this regard, the order generator  may provide the order number, received from the index builder , to the API  to enable the API  to utilize the order number for writing one or more index entries relating to one or more items of data (e.g., data obtained from the index data source module ) into the key\/value store .","In one example embodiment, the index partition  may be a data structure that the index builder  writes to. In an alternative example embodiment, the index partition  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (e.g., processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the index partition , as described herein. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (e.g., the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means. In an example embodiment, the index partition  may receive an instruction(s) from the index builder  to include or index one or more items of data in a specified\/designated partition(s). In response to including or indexing the items of data in the specified partition(s), the index partition  may send a message to the index builder  indicating that the indexing of the items of data is complete. As such, the index builder  may provide a new entry to the key\/value store  indicating that the indexing of the items of data is complete. The partitions of some example embodiments may be stored in the key\/value data store , the memory , database(s)  or any other suitable memory device(s).","The index partition  may also receive a request from the API  to search one or more partitions for data. The API  may send the request to the index partition  requesting the search for the data in response to the API  receiving a message from the index search module  requesting the data. In this regard, the API  may search one or more corresponding partitions to determine whether the data is stored and may determine whether the data is indexed.","In some example embodiments, the API  may determine that each of the partitions does not need to be searched for the data. The API  may determine that each of the partitions does not need to be searched for the data in an instance in which the API  knows the manner in which the data of the partitions is distributed and knows the partitions that the data should be distributed within. For purposes of illustration and not of limitation, the API  may determine that the index partition  only needs to search the first three out of ten partitions, for example, because the API  may know the manner in which the requested data is distributed among the partitions. As such, in this example, the API  may instruct the index partition  to search the first three partitions among the ten partitions for the requested data.","In some example embodiments, the API  may generate and send a message (e.g., a status Uniform Resource Locator (URL)) to the Index Data Source Module  indicating that the data has been received and stored, but not yet indexed. The index builder  may generate and send a message to the API  indicating that the data has been indexed.","Referring now to , an example embodiment of a system for indexing one or more items of data is provided. The system  may include one or more communication devices  and  (e.g., apparatuses  (e.g., mobile terminals )) as well as a network device  (e.g., network device ). Although  shows one network device  and two communication devices ,  it should be pointed out that any suitable number of network devices  and communication devices ,  may be part of the system  without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In the example embodiment of , the communication device  and\/or the communication device  may communicate (for example, via an index data source module ) with the network device  and may request the network device  to index one or more items of data. The communication device  and\/or the communication device  may send the data to be indexed to the network device . As such, the network device  (e.g., network device ) may index the items of data in a manner analogous to that of the network device , as described herein.","In addition, in the example embodiment of , an index data source (e.g., index search module ) of the communication device  and\/or the communication device  may request the network device  to search one or more items of data to be sent to the communication device  and\/or communication device . The items of data may have been previously sent to the network device  for indexing by the communication device  and\/or the communication device . An API (e.g., API ) of the network device  may search an index partition (e.g., index partition  (e.g., a data structure)) for the requested data among one or more partitions and the API may inform the communication device  and\/or the communication device  as to whether the data is received, stored and\/or indexed in a manner analogous to that described for the network device . In an instance in which the data is indexed, the network device  may send the data to the communication device  and\/or communication device .","Referring now to , a diagram of a system for generating one or more indexes according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of the system , the API  of a network device (e.g., network device ) may communicate with the index data source module  of an apparatus (e.g., apparatus ) and an index search module of an apparatus (e.g., apparatus ). The API  may receive a request or message from the index data source module  to requesting the API  to index one or more items of data (e.g., profile data (for example, a name, address, telephone number, etc.) or any other suitable data)). In this regard, the index data source module  may request in the message that the API  write one or more new index rows corresponding to the data. (See block ). The data that the index data source module  desires to be indexed may be included in the received message. In response to receipt of the message from the index data source module , the API  may request an order number from the order generator  for the requested index entry. (See block )","The order generator  may respond to a request for an order number from the index builder  (See block ) and\/or API  and in response to receiving the request for the order number, the order generator  may provide the order number to the requesting API  and\/or the requesting index builder . In an example embodiment, the order generator  may determine a next sequential order number to provide to the requesting index builder  and\/or the requesting API . In response to receipt of the order number from the order generator , the API  may map the order number to a key value and may link or associate the data, requested by the index data search module  to be indexed, to the key value. For instance, in one example embodiment, the order number may relate to one or more unique strings of characters (e.g., alphanumeric characters) or bytes of data. As such, the API  may utilize the unique strings of characters or bytes as a key value and may store the data that the index data source module  provided in association with (or linked to) the key value. The API  may provide or write the data received from the index data source module  to one or more index entries in the key\/value store . (See block ) In this manner, the data written to the one or more index entries in the key\/value store  may be linked or associated with the key value.","In response to the API  writing the data to one or more index entries in the key\/value store , the index builder  may analyze or read the data of the key\/value store  and may read the index entries. (See block ) In an example embodiment, the index builder  may read the most recently stored index entries. For example, the most recently stored index entry may be an index entry assigned the highest key value. In this example embodiment, the most recent index entries may relate to an index entr(ies) written to the key\/value store  by the API  based on the data received from the index data source module .","The index builder  may examine the data associated with the read index entr(ies) and may determine the number of rows that the items of data correspond to in order to build or generate one or more index partitions. (See block ) In some example embodiments, data may be streamed from a client (e.g., another apparatus , and\/or index data source module ) to the API  in order for the API  to include the streamed data into the key\/value store . The streaming of the rows corresponding to the items of data (e.g., the data received from index data source module ) associated with the read entr(ies) into one or more corresponding rows of a set of rows of a selected or designated partition(s) may continue until all, or a substantial portion, of the items of data are included (e.g., indexed) within the partition(s).","In an instance in which the set of rows for a selected or designated partition(s) reaches a predetermined size, the index builder  may provide or write data to the key\/value store  indicating that the predetermined size for the partition(s) is reached. The indication that the predetermined size is reached may denote that the partition(s) is full.","It should be pointed out that in one example embodiment, a key value that the index builder  may read which may be associated with the read index entr(ies) is a function of a partition ID, an order number and a number of rows currently processed.","The API  may search one or more indexed partitions of the generated indexes built by the index builder . For instance, in response to receipt of a request from the index search module  of the apparatus , the index partition  may search one or more partitions for the requested data and in an instance in which the index partition  determines that the data is stored within one or more partitions, the index partition  may send the aggregated data of the one or more partitions to, via the API , the index search module . In one example embodiment, when the index partition  receives an indication from the index builder  that the index builder  reached the end of the data input for inclusion of data in one or more index rows in one or more selected or designated partition(s), the index partition  may return or provide, via the API , a message (e.g., a status URL) to the index search module . The message (e.g., a status URL) may be associated with information indicating that data requested for indexing is received and stored. Optionally, in response to the index builder  providing an indication to the index partition  that the data is indexed in the selected or designated partition(s), the index partition  may send a message (e.g., a URL) to the index search module  indicating that the data requested to be indexed is successfully indexed.","Referring now to , a diagram of a system for searching data according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of the system , the API  of a network device (e.g., network device ) may receive a message from the index search module  to search for data (for example, data designated as foo*). In response to receipt of the request, the API  may send a message to the index partition  instructing the index partition  to search the index partitions for the corresponding data (e.g., data designated as foo*). In response to the receipt of the message from the API  to search for the requested data, the index partition  may analyze all, or a portion, of the partitions for the requested data. In this regard, the index partition  may retrieve the requested data from one or more partitions and may aggregate the retrieved data. As such, the index partition  may send the aggregated data to the API . The API  may send the aggregated data to the index search module .","In some example embodiments, the API  may instruct the index partition  to search some of the partitions, as opposed to all of the partitions, for the requested data. For example, the API  may know the manner in which data is distributed among the partitions and may instruct the index partition  to search a subset of the partitions for the requested data (e.g., search the first three out of ten partitions, etc.).","Referring now to , a diagram of a system for indexing data according to an example embodiment is provided. In the example embodiment of the system  of , the index data source module  may send a message to the API  of a network device (e.g. network device ) requesting the network device to index one or more items of data. In this regard, the message may include the items of data requested to be indexed. Additionally, the message may include data requesting the network device to write one or more new index rows in the key\/value store  corresponding to the requested items of data. (See block ) In the example of , for purposes of illustration and not of limitation, the data requested to be indexed may include a first name (fn), for example Matti, a phone number (e.g., 12345) and an identifier (id) (e.g., an id value of 24). It should be pointed out that the requested data may include any other suitable data.","In response to receipt of the request to write one or more index entries corresponding to the requested data into the key\/value store , the API  may request an order number from the order generator . (See block ) As such, the order generator  may send a request to the index builder  for the order number. In response to receipt of the request for the order number, the index builder  may analyze local data in a memory of the index builder  or information in the key\/value store  to determine a next sequential order number for assigning to an index entry. (See block ) In this example embodiment, the index builder  may determine that a previous order number (e.g., order number ) was assigned for an index entry and that the next sequential order number for assigning to an index entry is order number . As such, the index builder  may provide the next sequential order number (e.g., order number ) to the order generator , which may provide the order number to the API .","In response to receipt of the order number (e.g., order number ), the API  may map the order number to a key value and link or associate the data requested for indexing, by the index data source module , to the key value. As such, the API  may write one or more index entries including the key value (e.g., key value ) and the requested data  to the key\/value store . (See block ) In response to the writing of the index entry by the API  into the key\/value store , the index builder  may analyze the data of the key\/value store  and may identify the newly added index entry. In an example embodiment, the index builder  may continuously or periodically poll the key\/value store  for the detection of newly written index entries. Upon detecting the key value (e.g., key value ) associated with the newly written index entry, the index builder  may read the key value (e.g., key value ) and the corresponding requested data  from the key\/value store . (See block )","In response to reading the key value and the requested data, the index builder  may build one or more index partitions which may include the requested data . (See block ) In an example embodiment, the index builder  may build the one or more index partitions by generating a new index row(s) including the requested data associated with the key value  in a partition(s). The partition(s) may be designated or selected by the index builder . In this regard, the index builder  may include the new index row  in a set of index rows  for a corresponding partition(s).","The key values and associated data of the key\/value store  may be included in a journal . In this regard, the journal  may include a chronological record of data corresponding to one or more data operations (e.g., \u201cAdd\u201d, \u201cModify\u201d). These data operations may be utilized by the index builder  to build one or more index partitions as well as for rebuilding the index partitions. Additionally, the index builder  may perform an action(s) associated with a data operation(s) in an instance in which the index builder  may index a row(s) to include corresponding data in a designated or selected partition(s). For purposes of illustration and not of limitation, in an instance in which the index builder  detected the key value , the index builder  may read the corresponding data (e.g., id , phone 345-252-1) and the data operation \u201cModify\u201d. In this regard, in an instance in which the index builder  built or generated the index row associated with the data of key value , the index builder  may modify the phone number of david associated with id  from 345252 to 345-252-1, as shown in .","In some alternative example embodiments, in an instance in which the API  may write data to the key\/value store  for indexing an entry, the API  may include data specifying storage of more than one data operation per journal entry in a journal (e.g., journal ). Enabling the key\/value store  to store multiple data operations per journal entry instead of one data operation per journal entry may enable a network device (e.g., network device ) to reduce a total number of journal entries of a journal.","Referring now to , a signal flow diagram for generating one or more indexes according to an example embodiment is provided. At operation , an index data source module  of an apparatus (e.g., apparatus ) may send a message or request to an API  to add one or more index entries corresponding to requested data to be indexed. The index data source module  may provide the data requested to be indexed to the API  in the message. At operation , in response to receipt of the message from the index data source module , the API  may send a message to the order generator  requesting the order generator  to provide or get a next order number (no). The next order number may be a sequential order number since a previously used order number. Optionally, at operation , the order generator  may provide the requested order number to the API . Optionally, in an example embodiment, the order generator  may obtain the requested order number from the index builder .","At operation , the API  may write and enable storage of an index entry with a key value, corresponding, in part, to the order number and the requested data in the key\/value store . Optionally, at operation , the key\/value store  may send a message to the API  indicating that the index entry was written and that the key value and corresponding data was successfully (also referred to herein as \u201cOk\u201d) stored in the key\/value store . Optionally, at operation , the API  may send a message to the index data source module  indicating that the data requested to be indexed is successfully stored. At operation , the index builder  may get the next order number (e.g., the next order number since a previous order number utilized by the index builder  for an index build) from the order generator . Optionally, the index builder  may obtain the next order number based on analyzing data of the key\/value store .","In response to receipt of the request for the order number, the order generator  may provide the requested order number to the index builder . At operation , the index builder  may get or read one or more index entries from the key\/value store . The one or more index entries obtained or read from the key\/value store , by the index builder , may be one or more newly stored index entries. For example, the one or more index entries may correspond to the data requested by the index data source module . In an alternative example embodiment, the API  may inform the index builder  of new index entries stored in the key\/value store . In this regard, the index builder  may not need to periodically poll the key\/value store  to identify new index entries. Optionally, at operation , the key\/value store  may provide the one or more index entries to the index builder . At operation , the index builder  may build or generate one or more index partitions in which the index builder  may generate a new index row into a set of index rows of a designated or selected partition(s). The new index row(s) may include the data requested to be indexed by the index data source module . In one example embodiment, the index builder  may partition index entries into multiple different index partitions. This may be based on an index row order number (for example, an index order number of 10 may denote to index the data among 10 partitions) or a consistent hash of index data or a row number. At operation , the index partition  may analyze the partitions and may send the index builder  a message indicating that the indexing of the designated or selected partition(s) is successful.","Referring now to , a signal flow diagram for searching data according to an example embodiment is provided. At operation , an index search module  of an apparatus (e.g., apparatus ) may send a message or request to an API  to search for requested data. The message may include data requesting the API  to search one or more generated indexes for the requested data. The generated indexes may be previously built or created by the index builder . At operation , in response to receipt of the message, the API  may instruct the index partition  to search all, or a portion (e.g., a subset), of the partitions for the requested data.","Optionally, at operation , in response to receipt of the message from the API , the index partition  may search one or more partitions for the requested data. In an instance in which the index partition  identifies one or more items of the requested data in at least some of the partitions, the index partition  may aggregate the requested data and may send the requested data to the API . Optionally, at operation , the API  may provide the aggregated search results to the index search module  of an apparatus (e.g., apparatus ).","Referring now to , a flowchart of an example method for generating one or more indexes of data is provided. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., network device ) may obtain an order number in response to receipt of a request from a device (e.g., apparatus ) to index one or more items of data. At operation , the apparatus (e.g., network device ) may map the order number to a key value and may link the key value to the data (e.g., requested data).","At operation , the apparatus (e.g., network device ) may enable provision or write one or more index entries to a memory device (e.g., key\/value store ) to enable storage of the index entries. The one or more index entries may include information corresponding to the key value and the data. Optionally, at operation , the apparatus (e.g., network device ) may read one or more newly received index entries from the memory device (e.g., key\/value store ). The newly received index entries may correspond to the index entries written to the memory device in response to receipt of the request from the device (e.g., apparatus ).","At operation , the apparatus (e.g., network device ) may assign at least one new index row including the data for inclusion in a set of index rows of at least one designated partition to obtain a built index of the data.","It should be pointed out that  are flowcharts of a system, method and computer program product according to an example embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowcharts, and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts, can be implemented by various means, such as hardware, firmware, and\/or a computer program product including one or more computer program instructions. For example, one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. In this regard, in an example embodiment, the computer program instructions which embody the procedures described above are stored by a memory device (e.g., memory device , memory , key\/value store ) and executed by a processor (e.g., processor , processor ). As will be appreciated, any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus (e.g., hardware) to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus cause the functions specified in the flowcharts blocks to be implemented. In one embodiment, the computer program instructions are stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function(s) specified in the flowcharts blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus implement the functions specified in the flowcharts blocks.","Accordingly, blocks of the flowcharts support combinations of means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowcharts, and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","In an example embodiment, an apparatus for performing the methods of  above may comprise a processor (e.g., the processor , the processor ) configured to perform some or each of the operations (-), (-) and (-) described above. The processor may, for example, be configured to perform the operations (-), (-) and (-) by performing hardware implemented logical functions, executing stored instructions, or executing algorithms for performing each of the operations. Alternatively, the apparatus may comprise means for performing each of the operations described above. In this regard, according to an example embodiment, examples of means for performing operations (-), (-) and (-) may comprise, for example, the processor  (e.g., as means for performing any of the operations described above), the processor  and\/or a device or circuitry for executing instructions or executing an algorithm for processing information as described above.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and\/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and\/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and\/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
