---
title: Locking wedge gage tool assembly for assault weapon
abstract: An assault weapon locking wedge gage tool assembly includes a main body portion; at least one limit stop plate assembly connected to the main body portion; an interchangeable locking wedge stop connected to the limit stop plate assembly and configured to engage a locking wedge of a weapon; a moveable gage ball plunger positioned in the limit stop plate assembly and contacting the locking wedge; at least one position indicator operatively connected to the moveable gage ball plunger, wherein the position indicator displays a relative position of the locking wedge with respect to a known position of the locking wedge stop. The assembly includes an interchangeable ring configured around the main body portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08677644&OS=08677644&RS=08677644
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08677644
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110928
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The embodiments herein generally relate to weapons systems, and, more particularly, to shoulder-launched multipurpose assault weapon (SMAW) systems and components.","As the name suggests, a SMAW system is a shoulder-launched rocket weapon system allowing for portability for its use. The SMAW launcher has a quick twist-lock interface allowing ammunition to be locked into the launcher with one quick push-and-twist motion. This unique interface presents a complex multidimensional measuring problem for the launcher assembly that includes a set of raised locking wedges inside the launcher, which prevent inadvertent and unintentional discharge of the weapon. The location of these locking wedges is critical to the reliability, function, and safety of these launchers.","Adding to this problem is the launch tube, which is a sub-part of the launcher's assembly, and has the same inspection problem, but with a slightly different dimension requirement, because at this point the launcher's aft ring has not been installed. Additionally, the current in-service launchers have two different versions of the locking wedge configuration. Moreover, the locking wedges have to be measured individually.","Because the location of the locking wedges is very critical to the reliability, function, and safety of the launchers, it has become commonplace to incorporate a phantom or imaginary inspection tool technique to maintain proper location of the locking wedges. This means there is an imaginary circle (e.g., approximately 10 mm in diameter) drawn at the front center of the locking wedge. The locations of the locking wedges are then measured from this 10 mm inspection tool to the aft-end of the launcher. This technique allows the center of the locking wedges to be held to a specific distance in from the aft-end of the launch tube (or launcher), regardless of the angle manufactured on the front edge of the locking wedges.","This inspection problem then splits into two different categories, and at each category the conventional techniques are different and present their own set of unique problems. First, at the sub-part level (described in further detail below with reference to the launch tube production); and second when building\/rebuilding launchers (described in further detail below with reference to the building\/rebuilding launchers).","Launch Tube Production:","This level of inspection has regularly been performed with a very expensive coordinate measuring machine (CMM) and a complicated inspection process. This presents some problems. First, the dimensions are internal and because of the length of the launch tube, a user needs a very large and expensive programmable CMM, which increases inspection costs. Second, this process relies on the CMM using a small and short angle as a starting point. Because it is difficult for these machines to pick up small and short angles, this stretches the accuracy limits of these machines, which results in a quality assurance problem. When the launch tubes are removed from molds, the internal and external dimensions are all achieved by the mold except the overall length. All internal parts of the launch tube such-as the locking wedges and the contact points are attached to the internal mandrel before the resin is injected into the mold.","When the tube is first removed from the mold, there is excess material on both the aft-end and the muzzle end of the launch tube. The unfinished launch tubes are then typically taken to a machine shop where they are put into a lathe to make a rough cut squaring up the aft-end. No dimensional tolerance is held at this point. All that is necessary is to square up the aft-end so an inspector has a square edge to work from for the following stages.","The tube is then sent to a gage lab where it is set up in a CMM to find the rough-cut length. A nominal dimension is subtracted from the rough-cut length found by the CMM, which provides the inspector with a known amount of material that has to be removed. The tube is then sent back to the machine shop with an exact amount of material that has to be removed. The material is removed from the aft-end, and the tube is turned around in the lathe and then the muzzle end is cut to the total overall length. At this point, it is assumed that the finished product is a good part. However, the problem is that there is a lot of room for human-error in this process and a lot of reason to question the recorded location of the locking wedges upon completion.","The quality of this product relies significantly on how well each process is performed, as well as how accurately the locking wedges are installed on the internal mold\/mandrel before the resin is injected. Also, a CMM typically cannot accurately find the required angles, and the fact that molded parts are not perfectly round or flat, makes the entire procedure extremely subjective and error-prone. Finally, nowhere in this procedure is the position of the locking wedges actually measured. Thus, the conclusion reached is that the finished parts are sufficiently manufactured to use with the launchers. However, this cannot be verified with certainty.","Building\/Rebuilding Launchers:","The SMAW special weapons technicians have been using various techniques over the years to measure this interface. According to a first method, one assumes the launch tube and aft-ring are manufactured and assembled correctly. According to a second method, a technique is implemented for using an old encasement with lines penciled on the outer surface identifying where the locking wedges are. Then, masking tape is applied to the outside of the launcher, and some lines are drawn on the outside of the launcher depicting where the locking wedges are on the inside. Next, the encasement is inserted with the pencil lines into the launcher. Thereafter, the encasement is rotated until it locks to see if the lines match up. According to a third method, a millijoule meter is installed to check if the alignment is correct.","Unfortunately, the conventional techniques require this interface to be within 0.2 mm (\u00b10.0038 inch). Moreover, none of the above-mentioned procedures actually measure the locking wedge position individually, and accordingly all of these procedures are nothing more than an educated guess. Therefore, it is desirable to develop an improved SMAW assembly inspection tool and procedure that is readily adaptable in current weapon systems at reduced cost and complexity.","Conventional gage tools yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In view of the foregoing, an embodiment herein provides an assault weapon locking wedge gage tool assembly comprising a main body portion; at least one limit stop plate assembly connected to the main body portion; an interchangeable locking wedge stop connected to the at least one limit stop plate assembly and configured to engage a locking wedge of a weapon; a moveable gage ball plunger positioned in the at least one limit stop plate assembly and contacting the locking wedge; at least one position indicator operatively connected to the moveable gage ball plunger, wherein the at least one position indicator displays a relative position of the locking wedge with respect to a known position of the locking wedge stop.","The assembly may comprise of an interchangeable ring configured around the main body portion. At least one position indicator may measure a depth of the locking wedge inside the weapon within an accuracy range of plus-or-minus five ten-thousandths (\u00b10.0005) of an inch. The interchangeable locking wedge stop may comprise a plurality of configurations, wherein a first configuration is wider than a second configuration. The moveable gage ball plunger may be spring actuated and moves upon contacting the locking wedge. At least one position indicator may comprise two position indicators placed 180\u00b0 (degrees) apart from one another. The assembly may further comprise a moveable socket connected to the at least one limit stop plate assembly, wherein the moveable socket is operatively connected to each of the at least one position indicator and the moveable gage ball plunger. At least one limit stop plate assembly may be formed of a mechanically harder material than the main body portion.","Another embodiment herein provides a portable inspection system comprising a weapon comprising a launch tube comprising at least one locking wedge configured therein; and a locking wedge gage tool assembly that inspects a position of the locking wedge inside the launch tube, wherein the assembly comprises a main body portion comprising an inner core and an outer surface; a handle operatively connected to the main body portion, wherein the handle permits rotation of the main body portion inside the launch tube; a pair of diametrically opposed limit stop plate assemblies connected to the main body portion, wherein each limit stop plate assembly comprises an outer surface facing away from the inner core and substantially matching a contour of the outer surface of the main body portion; an interchangeable locking wedge stop connected to the each limit stop plate assembly and configured to engage the locking wedge inside the launch tube and prevent further rotation of the main body portion inside the launch tube upon contacting the locking wedge; a moveable gage ball plunger positioned through the each limit stop plate assembly and contacting the locking wedge; and a pair of position indicators operatively connected to the moveable gage ball plunger, wherein the pair of position indicators measure a position of the locking wedge within the launch tube.","The system may further comprise an interchangeable ring configured around the main body portion. The pair of position indicators may comprise a first position indicator and a second position indicator, wherein the second position indicator takes measurements more precisely than the first position indicator. The interchangeable locking wedge stop may comprise a plurality of configurations, wherein a first configuration is narrower than a second configuration. The moveable gage ball plunger may be spring actuated and moves upon contacting the locking wedge. The first position indicator is diametrically opposed to the second position indicator.","The system may further comprise a moveable socket connected to the each limit stop plate assembly, wherein the moveable socket is operatively connected to each of the pair of position indicators and the moveable gage ball plunger. The each limit stop plate assembly may be formed of a mechanically harder material than the main body portion.","Another embodiment herein provides a method of inspection comprising providing a weapon comprising a launch tube comprising at least one locking wedge configured therein; inspecting the locking wedge inside the launch tube using an gage tool assembly that comprises a locking wedge stop, a moveable gage ball plunger, and a pair of position indicators that are operatively connected to the moveable gage ball plunger; rotating the gage tool assembly inside the launch tube, wherein the rotating causes the moveable gage ball plunger to move along a tapered side of the locking wedge; terminating rotation of the gage tool assembly upon an edge of the locking wedge contacting the locking wedge stop; and measuring a position of the locking wedge within the launch tube using the pair of position indicators. The method may further comprise measuring the launch tube. The pair of position indicators may comprise a first position indicator and a second position indicator, wherein the second position indicator takes measurements more precisely than the first position indicator. The method may further comprise interchanging a plurality of configurations of the locking wedge stop.","These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the following descriptions, while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof, are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof, and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","The embodiments herein provide a tool and procedure to measure the depth of the locking wedges inside a SMAW within an accuracy range of plus-or-minus five ten-thousandths (\u00b10.0005) of an inch while also decreasing production cost and time during manufacturing, and eliminating a long-term maintenance issue. Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to , where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures, there are shown preferred embodiments.","As shown in , the embodiments herein provide a SMAW locking wedge gage tool assembly , comprising a handle , a gage mount  and a main body . Additional components described in detail herein include a ring stop , a base collar , coarse and fine gages  and , and a clamp plate . The exemplary gage tool assembly  overcomes all of the previously described inspection problems at all of the different production stages of the launch tube ; i.e., launch tube production, launcher builds, and rebuilds.  along with  illustrate various views of the SMAW locking wedge gage tool assembly  according to an embodiment herein.  presents an isometric exploded view of the gage tool assembly  that includes the main body , which is substantially cylindrically configured. The main body  has an inner hollow core  on its inside and a pair of diametrically opposed cuts  configured on the outer surface  of the main body .","Moreover, the main body  includes a collar  disposed around the main body  and on top of the cuts . The collar  is diametrically larger than the main body . The upper portion  of the collar  includes a pair of diametrically opposed cut outs . Configured on top of the upper portion  of the collar  is the gage base , which is also substantially cylindrically configured and is diametrically larger than the main body  and collar . The gage base  includes a center core  that exposes its top surface  of the upper portion  of the collar  of the main body  including a plurality of holes  that are configured into the upper portion  and extend to the inner hollow core .","A pair of clamp ring plates  are dimensioned and configured to fit into the respective cut outs  configured in the upper portion  of the collar . Each plate  includes an aperture  that aligns with an O-ring , which further accommodates a fastening mechanism  (e.g., screw, bolt, etc.) to securely fasten the ring stop  to the underside of gage base collar  of main body . Furthermore, the combination of plate , O-ring , and fastening mechanism  create a spring-loaded cam mechanism  (in ) that enables the stop rings  be changed with just \u00bd a turn of fastening mechanism . A pair of diametrically opposed limit stop plate assemblies  are each dimensioned and configured to fit into the respective cuts  of the main body . The outer surface  of each limit stop plate assembly  faces away from the inner core of the main body  and is contoured to be concentric with but slightly larger than the curvature of outer surface  of the main body .","A moveable socket  and an adjusting mechanism  (e.g., screw, bolt, etc.) engage each limit stop plate assembly  and extend internally to inner core of the main body . Adjusting mechanism  enables calibration of gage tool assembly  to be simplistic and precise. Setting the gage ball plunger  to the desired nominal depth position, and then rotating the adjusting mechanism  until the indicators  and  reach the zero position calibrates gage tool assembly . Additionally, a plurality of fastening mechanisms  (e.g., screw, bolt, etc.) and clamp plates  are used to secure the limit stop plate assemblies  into place in the cuts  and to the main body . Each limit stop plate assembly  includes a moveable gage ball plunger  and an interchangeable wedge stop . The wedge stop  may be configured in either a relatively narrow or wide configuration. The gage ball plunger  is actuated using a spring .","The interchangeable wedge stops  enable the user to gage either wide or narrow locking wedge configurations. By configuring the gage tool assembly  with a first type of wedge stops , older launchers or blank launch tubes with the narrow locking wedge configuration can be measured. By configuring the assembly  with a second type of wedge stops , newer launchers or blank launch tubes with the wide locking wedge configuration can be measured.","An interchangeable stop ring  is positioned around the collar  such that is substantially aligns with the gage base . During installation, alignment markers  on the top of ring stop  are used to correspond with alignment markers  on the gage base  to ensure proper seating of the stop ring  around the collar  and adjacent to the gage base .","The assembly  accommodates different configurations of the stop ring , wherein by changing the configuration of the stop ring  on the assembly , the user is capable of measuring the proper locking wedge position on any of the following three scenarios: A first type of stop ring  is used when measuring any current launcher with an aft ring (not shown) installed. A second type of stop ring  is used when measuring any blank launch tube (sub-part), which will also be the assembly  set up when measuring any launcher with the aft ring missing or removed for rework. A third type of stop ring  is used to measure any older launcher with an aft ring installed.","A pair of clamp plates  is positioned inside the main body  to retain the limit stop plate assemblies  to the main body  from within the main body . The clamp plates  are substantially U-shaped, although other configurations are possible, and the embodiments herein are not limited to a particular geometric configuration for the clamp plates  or any other feature or component of the assembly .","A pair of dial indicators (position gages)  and  is positioned on top of the gage base , more particularly, each being seated on a block  that is dimensioned and configured to fit inside the center core of the gage base . An anchor  is affixed on the underside of each block  such that the anchors  are dimensioned and configured to fit within the holes  that are configured into the upper portion  of the main body  and extending to the inner core  of the main body , enabling contact with adjusting mechanism . Additionally, a plurality of fastening mechanisms  (e.g., screws, bolts, etc.) are used to secure the blocks  to the main body  from above. Furthermore, a plurality of fastening mechanisms  (e.g., screws, bolts, etc.) are used to secure a substantially cylindrically configured bottom plate  to the underside of the main body .","The upright member  is positioned in between the pair of dial indicators  and . A dowel pin  is used to center upright member  within main body cavity . The upright member  tapers upward into a neck portion , which connects to a handle  that facilitates a user to properly grip and rotate the assembly  upon full assemblage of the various components. A plurality of fastening mechanisms  (e.g., screws, bolts, etc.) with corresponding load distributors  (e.g., washers, etc.) are used to secure the handle  to main body  from below. A handle cap  is positioned on top of the handle  and is securely fastened thereto using a plurality of fastening mechanisms  (e.g., screws, bolts, etc.).","The SMAW locking wedge gage tool assembly  successfully resolves all of the inspection problems on both locking wedge versions (wide or narrow). The assembly  simulates the above-mentioned phantom or imaginary inspection tool technique by incorporating a 10 mm inspection tool into a physical part of the gage tool assembly , called the gage ball plunger . With reference to , when the locking wedge  and gage tool assembly  is inserted into the aft-end  of the launch tube , the assembly  is then rotated in a clockwise motion until the edge  of the launch tube's locking wedges  comes in contact with the locking wedge stops  of the assembly . This is called the gage tool's locked position shown by the solid polygon  in . The motion of the locking wedge  is denoted by line  in .","Before the assembly  reaches this locked position, the tapered edge  of the locking wedges  contacts the spring-loaded 10 mm gage ball plunger  first, shown by the dashed polygon  in . As the gage tool assembly  continues to rotate, the gage ball plunger  moves up the locking wedge  until the gage tool assembly  reaches the locked position, shown by the solid polygon in .","In this position, the 10 mm gage ball plunger  is at the proper distance in from the edge  of the locking wedge . In other words, in , the dashed polygon shows the starting point when the locking wedge  first contacts the gage ball plunger  (e.g., dashed circle in ), and the solid polygon shows the locked position of the locking wedge  and the solid circle shows the resting point of the gage ball plunger . The indicator assemblies are directly connected to any movement (e.g., displacement) the gage ball plungers  make, and at this point all that is necessary from the user is to read (span X) the dial indicator  and .","As shown in , the limit stop plate assemblies  are raised slightly higher than the main body part  of the assembly . This enables the gage tool assembly  the ability to float inside the launch tube , while staying in proper contact with the locking wedges . The assembly  makes it possible to gage any launch tube  regardless of any concentricity, roundness, and location manufacturing errors on the launch tubes  and also the limit stop plate assemblies  are made of a material that is mechanically harder than the material (e.g., aluminum) used for the main body , thereby creating a long-term wear surface. For accuracy purposes, the gage tool assembly  includes two different dial indicators  and , which are positioned 180\u00b0 (degrees) apart and are diametrically opposed to one another. The first indicator  is a coarse indicator, provides a coarse measurement, and has a longer range of travel. The second indictor  is a fine indicator, offers a more precise reading, but has a shorter range of travel than the first indicator .","To eliminate confusion, when reading and understanding the dial indicators  and , these read zero when the locking wedge  is at the center of its tolerance zone, or the nominal depth position. Also any position the locking wedge  is in plus-or-minus of the nominal position will read exactly the same on the dial indicators  and , which is accomplished by using a pivot mechanism  that operatively connects the measuring component  of the dial indicators  and  to a translatable link  that abuts the adjusting mechanism  positioned in the moveable socket , which moves upon actuation of the spring-loaded gage ball plunger . The gage ball plunger  moves upon contacting the tapered end  of the locking wedge .  illustrate plan and elevation views of the assembly  and select components, whereas  provides a motion alignment diagram.  provide detail isometric exploded views of the stop and clamp plates  and  regarding insertion into the main body . In particular,  shows the stop plate  traveling in direction  into a corresponding cut  on an angular periphery along the surface  of the main body . As the stop plate  is inserted into the cut , the socket  enters an internal cavity . Additionally,  shows the clamp plate  traveling in direction  into a corresponding cut  on the annular periphery of the collar . The assembly  includes two stop plates  inserted into corresponding cuts  on opposing sides of the periphery separated by 180\u00b0 from each other. Similarly, the assembly  includes two clamp plates  inserted into corresponding cuts  on opposing sides of the periphery separated by 180\u00b0 from each other and by 90\u00b0 from the stop plates  in their cuts .","The assembly  is capable of overcoming all of the various different inspection scenarios. By interchanging different parts (e.g., stop ring  and locking wedge stops ) on the assembly , it can be quickly set-up to successfully gage the locking wedge position on different requirements thereby making the assembly  capable of:","(a) measuring any new-production blank launch tube (sub-part) with the wider locking wedge configuration,","(b) measuring any older launch tube (sub-part) with the narrow locking wedge configuration,","(c) measuring any in-service launcher with either the older narrow locking wedge configuration,","(d) measuring any in-service launcher with the new wider locking wedge configuration,","(e) measuring any launcher with either (wide or narrow) locking wedge configuration accurately after the aft ring has been removed as a sub-part, such as any launcher being refitted for a new aft ring, and","(f) checking the position of the locking wedges  in a SMAW launcher test stand (not shown) also.","The accuracy of the gage tool assembly  is linked to the following elements:","(A) How accurate the dial indicators  and  are themselves, and what their readout graduations are. According to the embodiments herein, the dial indicators  and  are extremely precision tools manufactured to a jeweled quality. The coarse indicator  with the longer range of travel is graduated to 0.0005 inch, and is manufactured\/jeweled to a much higher requirement. The fine indicator  is graduated to 0.0001 inch, and is manufactured or jeweled to a much higher requirement also.\n\n(B) The manufacturing quality of all the gage tool parts and assemblies suggests that some uniquely shaped or difficult parts are to be manufactured, and economically it would not be practical on a low production item to over tolerance all these uniquely shaped parts. Therefore calibration adjustments are built into the configurations.\n\n(C) The indicator assembly setup are all significant assembly operations in retrieving an accurate reading from the dial indicators  and . These three major requirements control a one-to-one ratio of movement through the pivot mechanism , and compensate for any manufacturing anomalies with shims.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 1 through 12"],"b":["500","510","200","85","520","390","200","100","310","305","160","170","305","100","200","305","410","390","540","100","400","390","310","550","390","200","160","170"]},"The method may further comprise measuring the launch tube . The pair of position indicators  and  may comprise a first position indicator  and a second position indicator , wherein the second position indicator  takes measurements more precisely than the first position indicator . The method may further comprise interchanging a plurality of configurations of the locking wedge stop .","The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily modify and\/or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept, and, therefore, such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore, while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
