---
title: Social network appreciation platform
abstract: A social network appreciation platform (SNAP) for marketing products or services of a merchant to customers online. A server receives marketing campaigns, announcements, coupons, or other messages defined by a participating merchant, for distribution to certain social networks to which a customer of the merchant belongs. The server also receives registration information from the customer including a unique identifier for use in purchase transactions, a selection of the customer's social networks to which certain of the merchant-defined messages are to be distributed, and a selection of the messages for distribution to the selected social networks. In response to transaction data from a transaction source representing a customer purchase, including the customer's unique identifier, the server transmits the messages selected by the customer to each social network selected by the customer, for display on the customer's page and viewing by friends or followers of the customer on the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504423&OS=08504423&RS=08504423
owner: Snap Services, LLC
number: 08504423
owner_city: Pearl River
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110822
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Overall SNAP Flow (FIG. )","Data Input\/Output API ","SNAP Corporate Web Portal ","SNAP Consumer (or Customer) Web Portal ","SNAP Social Network Interface ","Interface to Accounting System for Billing ","SNAP Brand Web Interface or Portal ","Social Networks ","SNAP Services Offered"],"p":["This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. sec. 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/377,690 filed Aug. 27, 2010, entitled \u201cSocial Networking Appreciation Platform (SNAP)\u201d which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to information networks, and particularly to a network system or platform for marketing by vendors of retail products and services to customers.","2. Discussion of the Known Art","U.S. Pat. No. 7,665,107 (Feb. 16, 2010) discloses a viral advertising system wherein an advertisement selected for viewing on-line by a user who is a member of a social network, is distributed to one or more other members of the user's social network. Further, U.S. Pat. Appl'n Pub. No. 2010\/0004980 (Jan. 7, 2010) concerns a system for tracking information relating to products, including a centralized system hub that is configured between vendors and consumers so that a consumer can search for information about a vendor's products, and the vendor can provide product, promotional and discount information to the consumer who can then pass the information on to others within his or her social network. Like the '107 U.S. patent, however, the '980 publication does not suggest that any product, promotional or discount information received by the consumer may be distributed automatically to members of the consumer's social network in response to a point of sale (POS) or on-line transaction between the consumer and the vendor.","U.S. Pat. Appl'n Pub. No. 2009\/0288012 (Nov. 19, 2009) describes a secure electronic transaction system that includes a coupon and advertising configuration. The '012 publication states: \u201cIt is noted that the coupons are also viral. If the advertiser who defined the coupon allows it, users of the system can transfer or share those coupons with the contacts in their social network, . . . \u201d. Par. [0274], at pages 29-30. The publication does not disclose a system wherein a given user can opt whether or not to allow advertiser coupons to be distributed automatically to his or her contacts at the time of a transaction between the user and the advertiser, however.","Further, U.S. Pat. Appl'n Pub. No. 2010\/0131385 (May 27, 2010) relates to a networked computing system for distributing commercial digital media content. The publication makes reference to so-called activity based advertising, wherein members of a given social network service (SNS) may be notified of a fellow member's on-line purchase of a particular digital recording (e.g., a CD) from a media content provider (MCP).","Notwithstanding the known techniques for disseminating advertising and promotional materials virally through social networks, there remains a need for a mechanism that ties a customer's purchase, whether transacted on-line or physically at a point of sale on the seller's premises, with the customer's unique identity (e.g., a customer loyalty card ID) and effectively rewards the customer and his or her networked friends as a function of the customer's purchasing activity.","According to the invention, a method of marketing products or services by a merchant to customers on-line, includes receiving, by a server, from a participating merchant, data defining marketing campaigns, announcements, coupons, or other messages for distribution to one or more distinct social networks in which a given customer of the merchant is a member.","The server also receives, from the customer, registration information including a unique identifier associated with the customer for use in purchase transactions, a selection of one or more social networks of which the customer is a member and has a corresponding page on each of the networks, and to which networks certain marketing campaigns, announcements, coupons, or other messages defined by the merchant are to be distributed; and a selection of one or more of the announcements, coupons, or other messages defined by the merchant for distribution to the social networks selected by the customer.","In response to receiving transaction data associated with a purchase by the customer from a transaction source, including the unique identifier associated with the customer, the server transmits one or more of the announcements, coupons, or other messages selected by the customer to each of the social networks selected by the customer, to be displayed on the corresponding page of the customer on each of the selected social networks and viewed by friends or followers of the customer on the networks.","According to another aspect of the invention, a system for marketing products or services by a merchant to customers on-line, includes a customer transaction source, and a server configured to receive, from a participating merchant, data defining marketing campaigns, announcements, coupons, or messages to be distributed to one or more social networks in which a given customer of the merchant is a member. The server is also configured to receive, from the given customer, registration information including a unique identifier associated with the customer for use in purchase transactions, a selection of one or more social networks of which the customer is a member and has a corresponding profile or message board page on each of the social networks, and to which networks certain marketing campaigns, announcements, coupons, or other messages defined by the merchant are to be distributed; and a selection of one or more of the announcements, coupons, or other messages defined by the merchant for distribution to the social networks selected by the customer.","In response to transaction data associated with a purchase by the customer from the transaction source, including the unique identifier associated with the customer, the server is operative to transmit one or more of the announcements, coupons, or other messages selected by the customer to each of the social networks selected by the customer, to be displayed on the corresponding page of the customer on each of the networks and viewed by friends or followers of the customer on the networks.","For a better understanding of the invention, reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing and the appended claims.","The inventive network system interfaces a customer's purchase, whether conducted physically at a retailer's premises or on-line, with one or more web based social networks to which the customer belongs. Referred to herein as a Social Network Appreciation Platform or SNAP, the system enables a retail business or vendor to communicate not only with a given customer, but also to market virally to selected friends over the customer's social network.","SNAP can be hosted by a web server or server farm, and it offers web portal access for a given business and for customers who create individual SNAP accounts with the business. A business web portal provides a backend tool for the business to create marketing campaigns that communicate, e.g., messages, coupons, and invitations for an event to a customer's friends using the customer's social network accounts. A customer web portal allows each customer to attach a unique identifier (e.g., a loyalty card or a gift card ID) issued by a participating business, to the customer's SNAP account.","Accordingly, customers can enable social networks of which they are members to open channels of communication from a participating business to the customers' friends, in return for a customer benefit that is offered by the business. Importantly, the customer web portal enables each customer to exercise complete control over the flow of any business marketing campaign to the customer's network of friends, and the portal can provide the customer with statistical data based on his or her own patronage of the participating business.","Businesses can market through SNAP to their customers and their customers' friends in a number of ways, such as, e.g., Social Postings\/Customer Rewards, Social Following, Social Announcements, Social Coupon, Social Bonus, Social Party Plan\/Date, and Social Sharing. Additionally, SNAP can offer statistical data and analytics to the business and to consumers in the form of graphical block diagrams and leader boards. A gaming factor is incorporated into SNAP as well through an engine configured to generate \u201cbadges\u201d, kudos or awards. The foregoing features are explained in detail below. An exemplary workflow of the components of the SNAP system is illustrated in the block diagram in .","A transaction within SNAP begins with the submission of information containing a unique identifier to a SNAP server  through an API (Application Programming Interface)  from an originating source . The SNAP server  is programmed and configured to process the submitted information, match a unique identifier to the consumer's associated SNAP account, and communicate an appropriate message to selected friends on the consumer's enabled social networks while also providing businesses and consumers with web portal access for marketing campaign and account management.","Examples of the source  include, e.g., a Point of Sale (POS) station , a POS server , a Credit Card Processing Server , a Gift Card Processing Server , and a Customer Loyalty Processing Server . The SNAP Server  is operative to process the information from the source , communicate with social networks  associated with the consumer's SNAP account, and also provide businesses and consumers with web portals for marketing campaigns and for account management.","Source ","The transaction source  that initiates the SNAP process submits the information or data required in order for the SNAP server  to route information associated with the transaction between businesses and the social networks. As mentioned, the transaction sources include, but are not limited to, the Point of Sale (POS) station , POS server , Credit Card Processing Server , Gift Card Processing Server , and Customer Loyalty Processing Server . The source  typically submits its information upon completion of a business transaction, as in the case of a point of sale transaction. Once the sale is completed, the source  submits the transaction data to the SNAP server  through the API . This information includes at least a unique identifier, plus other information such as, but not limited to, line item data, accumulated bonus points, business location data, and\/or dollars spent.","SNAP Server ","The SNAP server  includes a central server located, e.g., on the cloud or in a climate controlled server farm. The server(s) may include a CPU, redundant storage (RAID), and redundant power supplies for running SNAP's web service. The web service is configured to provide such functionality as to allow a business to sign up for service, create a customized business web portal for the business's customers, add\/edit customized marketing campaigns, and provide statistical data\/leader info on patrons.","The web service also provides a customer web portal to allow a participating business's customers to (a) manage the integration of their social network(s) with the business, (b) customize the output or content communicated to friends of the customers on the networks, (c) opt in\/out of certain services, (d) group friends\/followers for certain campaigns, and (e) obtain statistical data on their patronage of participating businesses.","The SNAP server  also provides an engine to open communication from participating businesses to the social networks , based on customized campaigns. A SNAP Social Network interface  is configured to contact available social networks and to disseminate information to friends and followers of participating consumers, based on the customer's preferences.","Information is preferably submitted to and received from the SNAP server  through a secure connection in a certain format using parameters specified in the SNAP SDK, and through secure SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) transmissions. Once information is submitted, the SNAP server  is configured to process and store the applicable data and to trigger an event relating to the products or services offered by the business and the information that is submitted. For example, if the business sends data to the SNAP server , and the SNAP server determines that the data reflects a marketing campaign to perform a Social Announcement, the server will store the supplied unique identifier plus other relevant data, and then trigger a posting to the customer's enabled social networks via the SNAP Social Networking Interface .","The SNAP Corporate Web Portal  is a tool for businesses to create and manage their customer facing web site, create marketing campaigns, choose which social networks to connect with, and categorize customers for the purpose of marketing to specific groups. Within the Corporate Web Portal , messages to be sent to various social networks can be defined, and coupons can be created for specific groups of customers or all customers who patronize the business. The Corporate Web Portal  is configured to provide the tools necessary for the business to create a customer facing web site, or a SNAP Brand Web Portal , to refer a customer to a web site where the customer can register their unique identifier (e.g., a loyalty or gift card issued to the customer from the business) with one or more social networks of the customer's choosing. This information is stored within a central SNAP database hosted on the SNAP server , so that it is accessible to the customer for account management purposes through a separate Customer Web Portal .","The SNAP Corporate Web Portal  is also configured to allow a business to use its logos and color schemes in order to retain the flavor of the business's own web site or its brand identity. Within the SNAP Corporate Web Portal , leader boards and statistical data may be made available based on consumer patronage. Statistical data can be displayed in a dashboard format. And leader board information can be made accessible to the business's Sources (POS Servers, or stations) through the SNAP API , for the purpose of displaying the information on digital signs within the store as well.","A business may also organize leading customers into groups and offer additional benefits for attaining Elite Status. For example, if a customer reaches 50 bonus points in a three month period, they reach Elite Status by which they earn double bonus points per transaction. A company may also choose to create additional benefits or marketing campaigns to members of such groups.","The SNAP Consumer Web Portal  offers the customer a central location to manage their customer services for each participating business. For example, within his or her personal account, a customer may perform functions such as, but not limited to, (i) enabling\/disabling available social networks  with each business's unique identifier, (ii) opt in or out of any of the services, (iii) choose from a list of social announcement messages, and (iv) choose to which friends or groups of friends the business may channel announcements, ads, and\/or marketing campaigns. Global settings may include an ability to enable\/disable social networks  among all participating businesses with which the customer has an account.","A leader board may also be made available to the customer, as well as their standing among all the businesses with which they have an account. The SNAP Consumer Web Portal  may also allow a user to view accumulated bonus points\/rewards earned from each business, as well as their group standing (e.g., Elite Status) if applicable. Statistical data may be displayed in a dashboard format.","Within the SNAP server, the SNAP Social Network Interface  is configured to process information submitted by a Source  through the SNAP API , and to route corresponding data to the social networks  based on the Source business's marketing campaign. The Social Network Interface  is operative to determine the business's submitted information that has been stored in the SNAP database in the server , and to open communication to the applicable social networks  based on the business's and the corresponding user's preferences.","Once each communication transaction is successfully completed, the SNAP Social Network Interface  may award a bonus point, if applicable, for each transaction posted. The SNAP Server  may either route this information back to the Source  in response to a query from the source, or deposit the information with an appropriate processing network (e.g., Loyalty Processor, Credit Card Processor, Gift Card Processor, or the like). Preferably, all of the SNAP services, described further below, use the Social Network Interface .","The SNAP Server  is also programmed and configured to connect with an accounting system for purposes of billing. For example, each business may subscribe to the SNAP service for a monthly fee, plus transaction fees. A transaction takes place each time a message is successfully posted to a social network . The SNAP Accounting Interface  operates to track each successful posting from any service offered by SNAP, and to report the accumulated transactions per business account to a SNAP accounting system. This allows the SNAP provider to bill all the participating businesses appropriately at, e.g., monthly intervals, based on actual transaction data generated by the SNAP server. The billing program may itself be web-based, or proprietary.","As mentioned, the SNAP Corporate Web Portal  allows a participating business to create a customer facing web site or SNAP Brand Web Interface  dedicated to each of its customer's enabled SNAP features. The site enables a customer to register a unique customer identifier (e.g., a loyalty card) with those social networks  available to the customer. Within this site, a customer may view their accumulated bonus points, patronage statistics per location, leader boards, as well as their ranking within each location of the participating business.","The SNAP Brand Web Interface  may be accessed through the SNAP Consumer Web Interface  as well. When a customer logs into the SNAP Consumer Web Interface , they preferably have access to each of a number of SNAP Brand Web Interfaces  created by all of the business with which the customer has registered. Each SNAP Brand Web Interface  is preferably customizable by the participating business with respect to business logos, color schemes, text content and the like.","The SNAP Social Networking Interface  is configured and arranged to communicate with various social networks  using, e.g., the OAuth method, or other means of secure communication. SNAP adheres to the rules of each social network when submitting\/querying data. The social networks  with which SNAP may affiliate include, for example, Twitter\u2122, Facebook\u2122, and FourSquare\u2122. The platform may of course be configured to integrate with other, additional social networks  in the same or similar fashion.","Twitter :","When enabled, SNAP communicates with Twitter  through a secure API (OAuth) to post a message. Twitter allows a limited number of characters, so the message should be predefined by the business in order to comply with Twitter's parameters. When a participating business's customer opts in to allow a connection to be made to Twitter, this effectively authorizes SNAP to make such a connection for purposes of communicating data from the business to followers of the user on Twitter.","Facebook :","When enabled, SNAP communicates with Facebook  through a secure API to post a message on a customer's message board. The customer's friends on Facebook will then be able to view the posting when they log into their account. The customer can choose which friends are to receive these messages through the SNAP Consumer Web Portal . The same parameters may used when generating a message for Facebook  as with Twitter  (i.e., comply with the number of character restrictions).","FourSquare :","FourSquare  differs from Twitter  and Facebook  in that FourSquare is a location based social network. A user can check in while at a location to earn points within FourSquare. FourSquare is generally used in conjunction with a GPS enabled smart phone that contains a FourSquare application. The phone's GPS determines the user's location, and the user informs FourSquare of the location. The user may earn a certain status for the location if they exceed the number of visits reported by other users.","For example, one may become a Mayor of that location if they have checked in from the location the most times. If a customer enables FourSquare on the SNAP service, the customer may be checked in upon completion of a transaction at a participating business, wherein the business submits the customer's location information to FourSquare under the customer's account in order to check them into that location. The business may also offer special promotions through SNAP if a customer reaches a certain status within FourSquare.","As mentioned, the services offered by SNAP enable a participating business to market a number of different ways to existing and potential customers through social networks. Each service is described below.","Social Postings\/Customer Reward ()","A Social Postings\/Customer Reward service , illustrated in , enables a participating business to send a \u201ctweet\u201d, a message posting, or a FourSquare check-in on behalf of a customer upon completion of a transaction. For example, if a customer uses their loyalty card at a local frozen treat retailer at checkout on a point of sale system, the POS terminal  or its server submits the loyalty card information including the customer's unique identifier along with the customer's current accumulated bonus points, business location, and any other relevant information to the SNAP server  via the SNAP API . The SNAP Server  then invokes the Social Postings\/Customer Reward service , if enabled by the business, as a marketing campaign.","At this point, the SNAP server  determines (at ) which of the Social Networks  the customer has registered. Assuming all listed social networks are enabled, a corresponding posting is made (at ) to Twitter, Facebook, and all other social networks (e.g., \u201cI just received five bonus points at Frozen Treats, Pearl River, N.Y.\u201d). The text and graphics of the posting may be chosen randomly from a list of predetermined postings defined by the business. Preferably, the consumer may alter the list of possible postings or choose a particular posting from among the list, by way of the SNAP Consumer Web Portal .","If enabled, an automatic check-in on FourSquare including the business location will trigger as well, and the SNAP server  will issue an additional bonus point (if applicable as part of the business marketing campaign) for each successful communication. This information may be communicated back to the Source  or to a loyalty processor in  depending on which service the business uses for the loyalty plan. Information that is sent back to the source  or to the loyalty processor need not be limited specifically to a loyalty service. Accordingly, the process allows a participating business to incentivize their customers to market the business's goods or services to the customer's friends.","Social Following ()","A Social Following service  informs a participating business whenever the business is mentioned on a social network. This provides the business with valuable information as to how their company is perceived or discussed in the marketplace. The information supplied by the SNAP Social Following service  is found, for example, by logging into the SNAP Corporate Web Portal , and may also be e-mailed to a specified e-mail address set up within the Corporate Account Management component of the Portal . Text Messaging of the notification can be an option as well.","The SNAP Server  queries the various social networks  through the API  provided by the network, and checks for certain keywords relating to the business or its name. Criteria for the Social Following Service  can be set up through the SNAP Corporate Web Portal . If a query returns a positive response, the found message containing the keywords is displayed in list format within the business's Portal . If enabled, an e-mail may also be sent to a specified e-mail address.","Social Announcement ()","A Social Announcement service  enables a participating business to create a message that is sent to any or all of the social networks  by creating a marketing campaign directed to a group of customers or all customers who register their social networks to the business through SNAP. The message can include text, and contain a graphic for those social networks  that support graphical postings.","The ability for the business to post messages in this fashion allows the business to launch a marketing campaign rapidly from one central web site. The campaign is generated within the SNAP Corporate Web Portal  and stored within the SNAP database  to be available for future use. Once the messages are posted, any click through responsive to the message is tracked by the SNAP Social Announcement service  to provide statistics on the launched marketing campaigns as well as the ability to offer a reward to the originating customer. A reward can take the form of additional bonus points, discounts or special coupons, and can be set up when developing the marketing campaign.","In addition, this form of marketing campaign can be set to allow a customer to store the announcement within their personal SNAP Consumer Web Portal account for the purpose of re-sending or sharing it with their friends using a Social Sharing service (discussed below). This information is also accessible through the reporting section of SNAP Corporate Web Portal .","The workflow in  begins when a social announcement campaign is generated from within the Corporate Web Portal . Once launched, the SNAP Server  invokes (at ) the Social Announcement service which first stores the campaign details in the database , and then generates a list of social networks with which to connect based on the selected groups of customers to which the campaign is directed. The choice of social networks may be listed within a Social Announcement campaign generator, and enabled or disabled for each campaign. The customer groups may also be generated through the Corporate Web Portal , so that a Social Announcement is sent only to the social networks and customers the business chooses.","Next, the actual message is posted (at ) to each social network enabled through the customers' accounts. Once the marketing campaign is communicated to the social networks, statistics generated from the campaign are stored in the SNAP database  and are reported to the participating business through the Corporate Web Portal .","Social Coupon ()","A SNAP Social Coupon service  uses the Social Announcement engine to allow a participating business to transmit a coupon to their customers. The Social Announcement service  may be provided with a clickable link to the coupon service , which link allows the SNAP server  to auto-generate a coupon (at ) with, for example, a 2-D bar code that can be viewed as a web page on a smart phone, or printed from a computer. A customer receiving the coupon can then redeem the coupon and receive a reward in the form of, e.g., additional bonus points, discounts, or other special coupons.","Preferably, before an actual coupon is auto-generated, the SNAP Server  is contacted (at ) to validate the coupon. This provides the business with very important statistics and information on the success of the marketing campaign, as well as which groups or customers are redeeming the coupons. As discussed in the Social Announcement section above, a marketing campaign can be structured so as to reward a customer for redemption of any coupons or click-throughs that originate from the customer's followers.","Since the Social Coupon service  uses the Social Announcement service engine, most of the workflow is the same as for the Social Announcement service . First, the coupon campaign is generated through the Social Coupon section of the SNAP Corporate Web Portal . When launched, the Social Coupon service  routes to the Social Announcement engine which then multicasts a message to selected customers and social networks . Once a customer receives the message on their social networking account, they can click the link to redeem the coupon, at which point the SNAP Server  is contacted to redeem the coupon.","If the coupon is still valid, the SNAP Server  generates (at ) a unique web page for the customer, displaying the actual coupon with a 2-D bar code. During the validation process, the SNAP server's Social Coupon engine tracks statistics on the coupon redemption by saving the customer's account information, time of day, and any other related information for reporting purposes. The information is stored in the SNAP Database  and accessed through the Corporate Web Portal .","Social Party\/Social Date ()","A SNAP Social Party\/Social Date service  offers a customer the ability to notify selected friends that the customer plans to hold a social gathering the at the location of the participating business. As an added value to the recipients, the business can offer coupons to the customer organizing the event, so the customer can use or re-send the coupons to friends they intend to invite. The business can incentivize the organizer to do so with a reward in the form of additional bonus points, discounts or special coupons.","For example, if a customer wants to meet with their friends at a restaurant to celebrate his or her birthday, the customer can use SNAP to post a message to the social networks  of their choice. The message can include, e.g., the occasion, the venue, date and time, RSVP date, an accept\/decline choice and, optionally, a coupon from the venue. The friends can then view the posting, choose to accept or decline, and notify the originator and the venue of their intent to attend the occasion.","The workflow of the SNAP Social Party\/Social Date service  begins with the Consumer Web Portal . The customer organizing the event logs into their account and navigates to a Social Party\/Social Date announcement area. Within this area of the portal , the customer can choose the venue from a list of participating businesses, select friends or group(s) to invite, select a date and time, write a brief announcement for the occasion, and optionally choose an available coupon from a list of coupons set up by the participating business. The information to be posted should not exceed the limitations allowed for the social network posts. If a coupon is used, however, the Social Party\/Social Date service  may also invoke the Social Coupon service  to generate a web page to display the coupon including a 2-D bar code that can be printed or viewed on a smart phone.","Once submitted, the SNAP Server  invokes the Social Parties\/Social Date service [?] [a Social Sharing service  explained below ?] and posts the announcement message to the customer's selected friends or groups of friends within the customer's enabled social networks. Optionally, SNAP may integrate with E-Vite\u2122 through an API to create a more formal invitation. Once the postings are made, the selected friends of the customer can respond by clicking either an accept or a decline link embedded in the posting. The links that are chosen allow the SNAP Server  to track users who are accepting and users who are declining. The response preferably includes the account of the user from which the response was made. The originating customer may be notified by e-mail as each response is made (almost real-time), and the SNAP Server  tracks and stores the responses in the database. The response information is made available to the originating customer from within the Consumer Web Portal's Social Party\/Social Date area, and includes user accounts that have accepted and those that have declined.","The SNAP Server  also notifies the venue (participating business) preferably by e-mail and through the Corporate Web Portal . The notifications may provide the occasion details, such as the type of event, date, time and how many persons plan to attend, and may be triggered upon expiration of the RSVP date. After the event is completed, the SNAP Social Party\/Social Date Service  archives the data and removes the event from a list of open events from within the Consumer Web Portal . The information is then made available as a past event and can be copied or re-issued for a future event.","Social Sharing ()","SNAP includes an ability to resend a message that a customer receives, whether a coupon or an advertisement offering discounts, to their friends or groups of friends using a Social Sharing service . When a participating business creates a coupon using the Social Coupon service, it can choose to allow the coupon to be shared by the recipients and issue a reward each time the coupon is shared in the form of additional bonus points, discounts, or special coupons. This allows a recipient of the coupon the ability to re-send the coupon they received to their friends in return for a reward from the initiating business. The process will also work with any message that is sent in the form of a Social Announcement .","The Social Sharing service  also allows a customer to send messages to their friends on all networks  from within the Consumer Web Portal . A customer can choose to resend a coupon, a social announcement from a business, or even copy and paste an article of information from a participating business's web site. A participating business may inject such code into their web site as to allow a quick plug-in to the Social Sharing service .","For example, the code may create a hot button on the web site that allows a viewing customer to \u201cSNAP this article\u201d to a friend(s) by highlighting the article, and pressing a SNAP hot button that provides a link for the article to the Social Sharing section the SNAP Consumer Web Portal , from which the link can be sent to any one friend or group of friends. The process is similar to the Social Announcement , except it would cost less since only customers who choose to share the article or other information will invoke a transaction charge. For billing purposes, the sending customer may be required to enter an assigned SNAP customer account number or log in credentials during the process.","The Social Sharing process  begins when a participating business uses either the Corporate Web Portal Social Coupon service  or the Social Announcement service , or when a customer uses the Consumer Web Portal  to send a message to his or her friends. The message can include a shareable social coupon created by a participating business, a social announcement or an article of information from a web site. Alternatively, a customer can create their own message to send to a friend or group of friends on any social network to which they belong. The SNAP server  may contact the social networks  using information from the Social Sharing Service  and the messages stored on the database  for future use by the customer. If a social coupon or other advertisement in the form of a social announcement has expired, it is marked as expired and is no longer shareable.","Leader Boards ()","A Leader Board service  is configured to provide a visual display showing statistics on leading customers or stores with respect to the services SNAP offers. A business may wish to create a competitive environment and offer rewards by using the Social Announcement feature to announce a new leader in a particular category and their reward.","For example, if a customer becomes a new leader in total bonus points earned in a specified period, an announcement is sent to congratulate the customer and state what they have earned. Leader boards may be available to businesses as well as to customers using the Corporate Web Portal , the Consumer Web Portal , or the Brand Web Portal .","A business may also have digital signs within each location. The SNAP Leader Board service  can have an option of displaying a full screen or a dashboard for purposes of viewing data on digital signs within a store. A business can choose to show the local leaders for each location on computer monitors, or on high definition screens using this service.","The business may also have an ability to choose certain criteria for their leader boards. For example, there may be a leader board for most transactions done, most bonus points earned or purchasers of a particular item, or even a store that attains the most visits (displayed on the corporate web portal). The business can choose whether these statistics are displayed for a revolving period or for all time. Additionally, a business can filter leader board information by location, which is especially useful for local digital signage.","At any point, a business can view the leading customers and combine them into groups that can be stored in the SNAP Database  for later use with any marketing campaign. For example, if a business sells a particular item for which the top 1000 customers have been grouped, the business can create and send a Social Coupon or Announcement to that group of customers as a discount or a message to thank them. A customer may view leader boards from within the Brand Web Portal , or view their own personal statistics and rankings from within their account in the Consumer Web Portal .","Badge System ()","A badge service  is a function within SNAP and features virtual objects that are awarded to SNAP users based on consumer activity. The badges may be configurable individually for each brand, based on the brand's criteria, and can be awarded as a collaboration between brands or through general SNAP activity. Badges have several properties associated with them, and can be configured for an entire chain, a region or a specific location. A badge (also called Award or Kudos) is issued as a graphical representation of the type of badge offered. For example, a customer who is recognized for the most visits to a particular location may receive a badge that is represented with a graphic of a trophy.","The attributes of a badge include the badge name, the graphic, the duration of the badge offering, the goals a consumer needs to reach in order to achieve the badge, the goals a consumer needs to maintain in order to keep the badge, and the reward to customers that achieve and maintain the badge (points boost, additional coupons or discounts, free gifts, etc.).","Additionally, the Badge service  offers a business an ability to issue a badge to customers who reach a certain reward level, such as customers who maintain a certain amount of bonus points in a revolving period, and to offer additional benefits for achieving this level. As part of a marketing campaign, the ability to create an Elite Status through the SNAP badge system gives the business a competitive edge for attracting repeat customers. A customer who attains Elite Status may be given additional or accelerated bonus points, additional discounts, or coupons to entice them to maintain their consistent patronage.","The business may also create different levels of Elite Status (e.g., Gold, Silver, or Bronze) and offer different incentives for each. Each status may also be represented by a different badge. Such groups may be generated automatically based on criteria specified by the business within the Corporate Web Portal , and the groups will then be available to the business to create a marketing campaign using any of the services provided by SNAP.","The Badge service  can also span multiple companies. Through the SNAP corporate interface , a company can \u201cinvite\u201d another SNAP enabled brand to participate in a co-branded badge. For example, a restaurant that promotes a health conscious diet can co-brand a badge with a health club to incentivize their mutual target customers to patronize both (e.g., a \u201cHealthnut\u201d badge). In such a case, both companies may issue rewards to those consumers who meet the criteria for that badge.","Reporting","SNAP is preferably configured to offer a participating business a reporting section within the SNAP Corporate Web Portal . Examples of reports that may be made available include, but are not limited to, social network posting activity (postings, social mentions), coupon generation and usage, sales trends vs. social marketing activities, success of specific campaigns (based on tracked results), social party activity and business location map for allowing businesses to view their hottest locations geographically (e.g., red colored zones may connote geographic areas of activity most frequented generated by SNAP).","Customers preferably have at least some reports available in the Consumer Web Portal  as well. Although not as extensive as the business reports, a given customer may view, for example, businesses\/locations where they have made purchases, as well as reports on their own buying habits including earned bonus points per business\/location, and rankings on the leader boards.","It will be appreciated that the inventive SNAP system offers services to participating businesses that will attract new customers as well as repeat customers in a fun and modern fashion. By tying in a customer's social network to the customer's transactions with the business, the business can market virally to the customer's friends or followers while incentivizing others to opt into the system. SNAP is an ideal fit for businesses that desire to tap into the social scene and appeal to the competitive nature of people.","While the foregoing represents preferred embodiments of the invention, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and that the invention includes all such modifications and changes as come within the scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["In the drawing:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
