---
title: User friendly interface for control unit
abstract: A user-friendly programmable thermostat is described that includes a central electronic display surrounded by a ring that can be rotated and pressed inwardly to provide user input in a simple and elegant fashion. The current temperature and setpoint are graphically displayed as prominent tick marks. Different colors and intensities can be displayed to indicate currently active HVAC functions and an amount of heating or cooling required to reach a target temperature. The setpoint can be altered by user rotation of the ring. The schedule can be displayed and altered by virtue of rotations and inward pressings of the ring. Initial device set up and installation, the viewing of device operation, the editing of various settings, and the viewing of historical energy usage information are made simple and elegant by virtue of the described form factor, display modalities, and user input modalities of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918219&OS=08918219&RS=08918219
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08918219
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111007
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Ser. No. 13\/033,573, filed Feb. 23, 2011. This patent application also claims the benefit of U.S. Prov. Ser. No. 61\/415,771 filed Nov. 19, 2010; and of U.S. Prov. Ser. No. 61\/429,093 filed Dec. 31, 2010, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of this patent specification also relates to the subject matter of the following commonly assigned applications: U.S. Ser. No. 12\/881,430 filed Sep. 14, 2010; U.S. Ser. No. 12\/881,463 filed Sep. 14, 2010; U.S. Ser. No. 12\/984,602 filed Jan. 4, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 12\/987,257 filed Jan. 10, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 13\/033,573 and US. Ser. No. 29\/386,021, filed Feb. 23, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 13\/034,666, U.S. Ser. No. 13\/034,674 and U.S. Ser. No. 13\/034,678 filed Feb. 24, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 13\/038,206 and U.S. Ser. No. 13\/038,191 filed Mar. 1, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,609 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,614 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,617 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,618 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,621 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,623 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,625 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,627 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,630 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,632 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,633 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,636 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,637 filed Aug. 16, 2011; U.S. Ser. No. 13\/199,108 filed Aug. 17, 2011; and U.S. Ser. No. 13\/267,877 and U.S. Ser. No. 13\/267,871 filed Oct. 6, 2011. Each of the above-referenced patent applications is incorporated by reference herein. The above-referenced patent applications are collectively referenced hereinbelow as \u201cthe commonly assigned incorporated applications.\u201d","This patent specification relates to systems, methods, and related computer program products for the monitoring and control of energy-consuming systems or other resource-consuming systems. More particularly, this patent specification relates to user interfaces for control units that govern the operation of energy-consuming systems, household devices, or other resource-consuming systems, including user interfaces for thermostats that govern the operation of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems.","While substantial effort and attention continues toward the development of newer and more sustainable energy supplies, the conservation of energy by increased energy efficiency remains crucial to the world's energy future. According to an October 2010 report from the U.S. Department of Energy, heating and cooling account for 56% of the energy use in a typical U.S. home, making it the largest energy expense for most homes. Along with improvements in the physical plant associated with home heating and cooling (e.g., improved insulation, higher efficiency furnaces), substantial increases in energy efficiency can be achieved by better control and regulation of home heating and cooling equipment. By activating heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment for judiciously selected time intervals and carefully chosen operating levels, substantial energy can be saved while at the same time keeping the living space suitably comfortable for its occupants.","Historically, however, most known HVAC thermostatic control systems have tended to fall into one of two opposing categories, neither of which is believed be optimal in most practical home environments. In a first category are many simple, non-programmable home thermostats, each typically consisting of a single mechanical or electrical dial for setting a desired temperature and a single HEAT-FAN-OFF-AC switch. While being easy to use for even the most unsophisticated occupant, any energy-saving control activity, such as adjusting the nighttime temperature or turning off all heating\/cooling just before departing the home, must be performed manually by the user. As such, substantial energy-saving opportunities are often missed for all but the most vigilant users. Moreover, more advanced energy-saving capabilities are not provided, such as the ability for the thermostat to be programmed for less energy-intensive temperature setpoints (\u201csetback temperatures\u201d) during planned intervals of non-occupancy, and for more comfortable temperature setpoints during planned intervals of occupancy.","In a second category, on the other hand, are many programmable thermostats, which have become more prevalent in recent years in view of Energy Star (US) and TCO (Europe) standards, and which have progressed considerably in the number of different settings for an HVAC system that can be individually manipulated. Unfortunately, however, users are often intimidated by a dizzying array of switches and controls laid out in various configurations on the face of the thermostat or behind a panel door on the thermostat, and seldom adjust the manufacturer defaults to optimize their own energy usage. Thus, even though the installed programmable thermostats in a large number of homes are technologically capable of operating the HVAC equipment with energy-saving profiles, it is often the case that only the one-size-fits-all manufacturer default profiles are ever implemented in a large number of homes. Indeed, in an unfortunately large number of cases, a home user may permanently operate the unit in a \u201ctemporary\u201d or \u201chold\u201d mode, manually manipulating the displayed set temperature as if the unit were a simple, non-programmable thermostat.","Proposals have been made for so-called self-programming thermostats, including a proposal for establishing learned setpoints based on patterns of recent manual user setpoint entries as discussed in US20080191045A1, and including a proposal for automatic computation of a setback schedule based on sensed occupancy patterns in the home as discussed in G. Gao and K. Whitehouse, \u201cThe Self-Programming Thermostat: Optimizing Setback Schedules Based on Home Occupancy Patterns,\u201d Proceedings of the First ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy-Efficiency in Buildings, pp. 67-72, Association for Computing Machinery (November 2009). It has been found, however, that crucial and substantial issues arise when it comes to the practical integration of self-programming behaviors into mainstream residential and\/or business use, issues that appear unaddressed and unresolved in such self-programming thermostat proposals. By way of example, just as there are many users who are intimidated by dizzying arrays of controls on user-programmable thermostats, there are also many users who would be equally uncomfortable with a thermostat that fails to give the user a sense of control and self-determination over their own comfort, or that otherwise fails to give confidence to the user that their wishes are indeed being properly accepted and carried out at the proper times. At a more general level, because of the fact that human beings must inevitably be involved, there is a tension that arises between (i) the amount of energy-saving sophistication that can be offered by an HVAC control system, and (ii) the extent to which that energy-saving sophistication can be put to practical, everyday use in a large number of homes. Similar issues arise in the context of multi-unit apartment buildings, hotels, retail stores, office buildings, industrial buildings, and more generally any living space or work space having one or more HVAC systems. It has been found that the user interface of a thermostat, which so often seems to be an afterthought in known commercially available products, represents a crucial link in the successful integration of self-programming thermostats into widespread residential and business use, and that even subtle visual and tactile cues can make an large difference in whether those efforts are successful.","Thus, it would be desirable to provide a thermostat having an improved user interface that is simple, intuitive, elegant, and easy to use such that the typical user is able to access many of the energy-saving and comfort-maintaining features, while at the same time not being overwhelmed by the choices presented. It would be further desirable to provide a user interface for a self-programming or learning thermostat that provides a user setup and learning instantiation process that is relatively fast and easy to complete, while at the same time inspiring confidence in the user that their setpoint wishes will be properly respected. It would be still further desirable to provide a user interface for a self-programming or learning thermostat that provides convenient access to the results of the learning algorithms and methods for fast, intuitive alteration of scheduled setpoints including learned setpoints. It would be even further desirable to provide a user interface for a self-programming or learning thermostat that provides insightful feedback and encouragement regarding energy saving behaviors, performance, and\/or results associated with the operation of the thermostat. Notably, although one or more of the embodiments described infra is particularly advantageous when incorporated with a self-programming or learning thermostat, it is to be appreciated that their incorporation into non-learning thermostats can be advantageous as well and is within the scope of the present teachings. Other issues arise as would be apparent to one skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure.","Provided according to one or more embodiments is a user interface for a programmable device, such as a programmable thermostat, that controls the operation of one or more energy-consuming systems, household devices, or other resource-consuming systems, such as a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system. Further provided are systems, methods, computer program products, and related business methods associated with the user interface and programmable device. For some embodiments, the programmable device is configured to carry out a method for interacting with a user thereof, the method comprising displaying a plurality of background tick marks arcuately arranged within a range area on a rounded display that is centrally mounted on a rounded body of the programmable device. A setpoint tick mark is displayed on the rounded display within the range area such that the setpoint tick mark is more prominently visible to the user than the background tick marks, the setpoint tick mark representing a setpoint temperature. Numerical representations of the current temperature and the setpoint temperature are displayed on the rounded display, and input representing a desired change in the setpoint temperature is received from the user by user rotation of a rotatable ring surrounding the rounded display. The setpoint tick mark is moved in response to and in accordance with the received input such that the change in setpoint is visible to the user.","According to some embodiments, a background color having a red and\/or orange shade is displayed when the device is calling for heating, and a background color having a bluish shade is displayed when the device is calling for cooling. For some embodiments, the displayed intensities of the colors correspond to an estimated amount of heating or cooling that will be used to reach the setpoint temperature.","According to some embodiments, there is provided a programmable device for controlling the operation of an HVAC system, the programmable device being configured to carry out a method for interacting with a user thereof, the method comprising displaying a menu including a plurality of user selectable options in an arcuate area on a rounded display that is centrally mounted on a rounded body of the programmable device, and receiving input from the user by user rotation of a rotatable ring surrounding the rounded display. Different user selectable options are highlighted in response to and in accordance with the received input. The arcuate area is preferably a circular outer area of the rounded display disposed along a periphery thereof, and the plurality of user selectable options are distributed about the circular area and are rotated about the display in response to the received input. For some embodiments, a highlighting window preferably remains in a fixed position relative to the device while the plurality of user selectable options are progressively rotated through the window such that only one of the user selectable options at a time is visible within the window. The currently highlighted option can be selected by the user by pressing the rotatable ring.","According to some embodiments, there is provided a programmable device for controlling the operation of an HVAC system, the programmable device being configured to carry out a method for interacting with a user thereof, the method comprising displaying a visible portion of a schedule plot on an electronic display that is centrally mounted on a body of the programmable device, the schedule plot having a time axis and including a plurality of programmed setpoints disposed at respective locations along the time axis. The method further comprises receiving input from the user by user rotation of a rotatable ring surrounding the rounded display, and progressively changing the visible portion of the schedule plot display in response to the received input. A stationary cursor is preferably overlaid on the displayed visible portion of the schedule plot, the cursor being representative of a time value by virtue of its location along the time axis of the schedule plot. The schedule plot is preferably moved in a direction of the time axis relative to the stationary cursor such that a progression of time intervals is represented on the display as a function of the received user input. Each programmed setpoint has an effective time that is characterized by its location along the time axis, and further has a temperature value that is characterized by its location along a temperature axis of the schedule plot. For some embodiments, the time axis is disposed along a horizontal direction while the temperature axis is disposed along a vertical direction. New programmed setpoints can be established, and existing programmed setpoints can be adjusted in terms of their effective time and\/or temperature values, by intuitive sequences of user pressing and user rotation of the rotatable ring. To establish a new programmed setpoint, the user rotates the rotatable ring until the stationary cursor is coincident with the desired effective time, presses the rotatable ring to establish a new setpoint at that time axis location, rotates the rotatable ring to adjust the temperature value of the new setpoint, and then presses the rotatable ring again to establish the programmed setpoint at that effective time and that temperature value. To adjust an existing programmed setpoint, the user rotates the rotatable ring until the stationary cursor is coincident with the effective time thereof, presses the rotatable ring to select that programmed setpoint, rotates the rotatable ring to adjust the time axis location, presses the rotatable ring to select the desired time location and allow adjustment of the temperature value, rotates the rotatable ring to adjust the temperature value, and again presses the rotatable ring to establish the new effective time and temperature value of the programmed setpoint.","According to some embodiments, a programmable device for controlling an HVAC system is provided. The device includes an electronic display positioned inside a circular outer ring that is user rotatable and user pressable, and a processor adapted and configured to drive the electronic display responsive to user presses and rotations of the outer ring. The processor is programmed to cause the electronic display to show recent energy usage performance information for a succession of recent historical time intervals. Energy performance information for respective time intervals can be displayed to the user in separate respective windows, the electronic display showing animated transitions between respective time intervals responsive to user rotations of the ring.","It will be appreciated that these systems and methods are novel, as are applications thereof and many of the components, systems, methods and algorithms employed and included therein. It should be appreciated that embodiments of the presently described inventive body of work can be implemented in numerous ways, including as processes, apparata, systems, devices, methods, computer readable media, computational algorithms, embedded or distributed software and\/or as a combination thereof. Several illustrative embodiments are described below.","A detailed description of the inventive body of work is provided below. While several embodiments are described, it should be understood that the inventive body of work is not limited to any one embodiment, but instead encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents. In addition, while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the inventive body of work, some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover, for the purpose of clarity, certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the inventive body of work.","As used herein the term \u201cHVAC\u201d includes systems providing both heating and cooling, heating only, cooling only, as well as systems that provide other occupant comfort and\/or conditioning functionality such as humidification, dehumidification and ventilation.","As used herein the terms power \u201charvesting,\u201d \u201csharing\u201d and \u201cstealing\u201d when referring to HVAC thermostats all refer to the thermostat are designed to derive power from the power transformer through the equipment load without using a direct or common wire source directly from the transformer.","As used herein the term \u201cresidential\u201d when referring to an HVAC system means a type of HVAC system that is suitable to heat, cool and\/or otherwise condition the interior of a building that is primarily used as a single family dwelling. An example of a cooling system that would be considered residential would have a cooling capacity of less than about 5 tons of refrigeration (1 ton of refrigeration=12,000 Btu\/h).","As used herein the term \u201clight commercial\u201d when referring to an HVAC system means a type of HVAC system that is suitable to heat, cool and\/or otherwise condition the interior of a building that is primarily used for commercial purposes, but is of a size and construction that a residential HVAC system is considered suitable. An example of a cooling system that would be considered residential would have a cooling capacity of less than about 5 tons of refrigeration.","As used herein the term \u201cthermostat\u201d means a device or system for regulating parameters such as temperature and\/or humidity within at least a part of an enclosure. The term \u201cthermostat\u201d may include a control unit for a heating and\/or cooling system or a component part of a heater or air conditioner. As used herein the term \u201cthermostat\u201d can also refer generally to a versatile sensing and control unit (VSCU unit) that is configured and adapted to provide sophisticated, customized, energy-saving HVAC control functionality while at the same time being visually appealing, non-intimidating, elegant to behold, and delightfully easy to use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","120","112","110","112","110","112"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["120","100","120","242","240","236","246","270","238","242","252","250","230","234","240","238","254","212","110","110","120","110","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-B","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["300","300","300","300","110","300","312","300","300","312","300","312","312","312","300","314","324","314","324","312"]},"Although being formed from a single lens-like piece of material such as polycarbonate, the cover  has two different regions or portions including an outer portion and a central portion . According to some embodiments, the cover  is painted or smoked around the outer portion , but leaves the central portion visibly clear so as to facilitate viewing of an electronic display  disposed thereunderneath. According to some embodiments, the curved cover  acts as a lens that tends to magnify the information being displayed in electronic display  to users. According to some embodiments the central electronic display  is a dot-matrix layout (individually addressable) such that arbitrary shapes can be generated, rather than being a segmented layout. According to some embodiments, a combination of dot-matrix layout and segmented layout is employed. According to some embodiments, central display  is a backlit color liquid crystal display (LCD). An example of information displayed on the electronic display  is illustrated in , and includes central numerals  that are representative of a current setpoint temperature. According to some embodiments, metallic portion  has number of slot-like openings so as to facilitate the use of a passive infrared motion sensor  mounted therebeneath. The metallic portion  can alternatively be termed a metallic front grille portion. Further description of the metallic portion\/front grille portion is provided in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 13\/199,108, supra. The thermostat  is preferably constructed such that the electronic display  is at a fixed orientation and does not rotate with the outer ring , so that the electronic display  remains easily read by the user. For some embodiments, the cover  and metallic portion  also remain at a fixed orientation and do not rotate with the outer ring . According to one embodiment in which the diameter of the thermostat  is about 80 mm, the diameter of the electronic display  is about 45 mm. According to some embodiments an LED indicator  is positioned beneath portion  to act as a low-power-consuming indicator of certain status conditions. For, example the LED indicator  can be used to display blinking red when a rechargeable battery of the thermostat (see , infra) is very low and is being recharged. More generally, the LED indicator  can be used for communicating one or more status codes or error codes by virtue of red color, green color, various combinations of red and green, various different blinking rates, and so forth, which can be useful for troubleshooting purposes.","Motion sensing as well as other techniques can be use used in the detection and\/or predict of occupancy, as is described further in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 12\/881,430, supra. According to some embodiments, occupancy information is used in generating an effective and efficient scheduled program. Preferably, an active proximity sensor A is provided to detect an approaching user by infrared light reflection, and an ambient light sensor B is provided to sense visible light. The proximity sensor A can be used to detect proximity in the range of about one meter so that the thermostat  can initiate \u201cwaking up\u201d when the user is approaching the thermostat and prior to the user touching the thermostat. Such use of proximity sensing is useful for enhancing the user experience by being \u201cready\u201d for interaction as soon as, or very soon after the user is ready to interact with the thermostat. Further, the wake-up-on-proximity functionality also allows for energy savings within the thermostat by \u201csleeping\u201d when no user interaction is taking place our about to take place. The ambient light sensor B can be used for a variety of intelligence-gathering purposes, such as for facilitating confirmation of occupancy when sharp rising or falling edges are detected (because it is likely that there are occupants who are turning the lights on and off), and such as for detecting long term (e.g., 24-hour) patterns of ambient light intensity for confirming and\/or automatically establishing the time of day.","According to some embodiments, for the combined purposes of inspiring user confidence and further promoting visual and functional elegance, the thermostat  is controlled by only two types of user input, the first being a rotation of the outer ring  as shown in  (referenced hereafter as a \u201crotate ring\u201d or \u201cring rotation\u201d input), and the second being an inward push on an outer cap  (see ) until an audible and\/or tactile \u201cclick\u201d occurs (referenced hereafter as an \u201cinward click\u201d or simply \u201cclick\u201d input). For the embodiment of , the outer cap  is an assembly that includes all of the outer ring , cover , electronic display , and metallic portion . When pressed inwardly by the user, the outer cap  travels inwardly by a small amount, such as 0.5 mm, against an interior metallic dome switch (not shown), and then springably travels back outwardly by that same amount when the inward pressure is released, providing a satisfying tactile \u201cclick\u201d sensation to the user's hand, along with a corresponding gentle audible clicking sound. Thus, for the embodiment of , an inward click can be achieved by direct pressing on the outer ring  itself, or by indirect pressing of the outer ring by virtue of providing inward pressure on the cover , metallic portion , or by various combinations thereof. For other embodiments, the thermostat  can be mechanically configured such that only the outer ring  travels inwardly for the inward click input, while the cover  and metallic portion  remain motionless. It is to be appreciated that a variety of different selections and combinations of the particular mechanical elements that will travel inwardly to achieve the \u201cinward click\u201d input are within the scope of the present teachings, whether it be the outer ring  itself, some part of the cover , or some combination thereof. However, it has been found particularly advantageous to provide the user with an ability to quickly go back and forth between registering \u201cring rotations\u201d and \u201cinward clicks\u201d with a single hand and with minimal amount of time and effort involved, and so the ability to provide an inward click directly by pressing the outer ring  has been found particularly advantageous, since the user's fingers do not need to be lifted out of contact with the device, or slid along its surface, in order to go between ring rotations and inward clicks. Moreover, by virtue of the strategic placement of the electronic display  centrally inside the rotatable ring , a further advantage is provided in that the user can naturally focus their attention on the electronic display throughout the input process, right in the middle of where their hand is performing its functions. The combination of intuitive outer ring rotation, especially as applied to (but not limited to) the changing of a thermostat's setpoint temperature, conveniently folded together with the satisfying physical sensation of inward clicking, together with accommodating natural focus on the electronic display in the central midst of their fingers' activity, adds significantly to an intuitive, seamless, and downright fun user experience. Further descriptions of advantageous mechanical user-interfaces and related designs, which are employed according to some embodiments, can be found in U.S. Ser. No. 13\/033,573, supra, U.S. Ser. No. 29\/386,021, supra, and U.S. Ser. No. 13\/199,108, supra.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIGS. 3A-B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3C"],"b":["309","300","309","309","376","376","378","376","377","377","376","1","2","312","308","2","309","314","2","309","300"]},"According to some embodiments, the thermostat  includes a processing system , display driver  and a wireless communications system . The processing system  is adapted to cause the display driver  and display area  to display information to the user, and to receiver user input via the rotatable ring . The processing system , according to some embodiments, is capable of carrying out the governance of the operation of thermostat  including the user interface features described herein. The processing system  is further programmed and configured to carry out other operations as described further hereinbelow and\/or in other ones of the commonly assigned incorporated applications. For example, processing system  is further programmed and configured to maintain and update a thermodynamic model for the enclosure in which the HVAC system is installed, such as described in U.S. Ser. No. 12\/881,463, supra. According to some embodiments, the wireless communications system  is used to communicate with devices such as personal computers and\/or other thermostats or HVAC system components, which can be peer-to-peer communications, communications through one or more servers located on a private network, or and\/or communications through a cloud-based service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["300","410","440","300","312","410","308","314","316","410","300","440","410","440","410","440","410","360","364","366","420","422","420"]},"Backplate  includes electronics  and a temperature\/humidity sensor  in housing , which are ventilated via vents . Two or more temperature sensors (not shown) are also located in the head unit  and cooperate to acquire reliable and accurate room temperature data. Wire connectors  are provided to allow for connection to HVAC system wires. Connection terminal  provides electrical connections between the head unit  and backplate . Backplate electronics  also includes power sharing circuitry for sensing and harvesting power available power from the HVAC system circuitry.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-F","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 5A"],"b":["6","300","300","316","312","300","316","510","510","513","512","300","514","516","516","518"]},"According to some embodiments, the transitions between some screens use a \u201ccoin flip\u201d transition, and\/or a translation or shifting of displayed elements as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/033,573, supra. The animated \u201ccoin flip\u201d transition between progressions of thermostat display screens, which is also illustrated in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,625, supra, has been found to be advantageous in providing a pleasing and satisfying user experience, not only in terms of intrinsic visual delight, but also because it provides a unique balance between logical segregation (a sense that one is moving on to something new) and logical flow (a sense of connectedness and causation between the previous screen and the next screen). Although the type of transitions may not all be labeled in the figures herein, it is understood that different types of screen-to-screen transitions could be used so as to enhance the user interface experience for example by indicating to the user a transition to a different step or setting, or a return to a previous screen or menu.","In screen , the user proceeds to the connection setup steps by selecting \u201cCONNECT\u201d with the rotatable ring followed by an inward click. Selecting \u201cCONNECT\u201d causes the thermostat  to scan for wireless networks and then to display screen  in . If the user selects \u201cSKIP,\u201d then screen  is displayed, which informs the user that they can connect at any time from the settings menu. The user acknowledges this by clicking, which leads to screen . In screen , the first step \u201cInternet Connection\u201d is greyed out, which indicates that this step has been intentionally skipped.","In , screen  is shown after a scan is made for wireless networks (e.g. using Wi-Fi or ZigBee wireless communication). In the example shown in screen , two wireless networks have been found and are displayed: \u201cNetwork2\u201d and \u201cNetwork3.\u201d The electronic display  preferably also includes a lock icon  to show that the network uses password security, and also can show a wireless icon  to indicate the wireless connection to the network. According to some embodiments, wireless signal icon  can show a number of bars that indicates relative signal strength associated with that network. If the user selects one of the found networks that requires a password, screen  is displayed to obtain the password from the user. Screen  uses an alphanumeric input interface where the user selects and enters characters by rotating the ring and clicking. Further details of this type of data entry interface is described in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 13\/033,573, supra. The user is reminded that a password is being entered by virtue of the lock icon . After the password is entered, screen  is displayed while the thermostat tries to establish a connection to the indicated Wi-Fi network. If the network connection is established and the internet is available, then the thermostat attempts to connect to the manufacturer's server. A successful connection to the server is shown in screen . After a pause (or a click to acknowledge) screen  is displayed that indicates that the internet connection setup step has been successfully completed. According to some embodiments, a checkmark icon  is used to indicate successful completion of the step.","If no connection to the selected local network could be established, screen  is displayed notifying the user of such and asking if a network testing procedure should be carried out. If the user selects \u201cTEST,\u201d then screen , with a spinner icon , is displayed while a network test is carried out. If the test discovers an error, a screen such as screen  is displayed to indicate the nature of the errors. According to some embodiments, the user is directed to further resources online for more detailed support.","If the local network connection was successful, but no connection to the manufacturer's server could be established then, in , screen , the user is notified of the status and acknowledges by clicking \u201cCONTINUE.\u201d In screen , the user is asked if they wish to try a different network. If the user selects \u201cNETWORK,\u201d then the thermostat scans for available networks and then moves to screen . If the user selects \u201cSKIP,\u201d then screen  is displayed.","Under some circumstances, for example following a network test (screen ) the system determines that a software and\/or firmware update is needed. In such cases, screen  is displayed while the update process is carried out. Since some processes, such as downloading and installing updates, can take a relatively long time, a notice combined with a spinner  having a percent indicator can be shown to keep the user informed of the progress. Following the update, the system usually needs to be rebooted. Screen  informs the user of this.","According to some embodiments, in cases where more than one thermostat is located in the same dwelling or business location, the units can be associated with one another as both being paired to the user's account on a cloud-based management server. When a successful network and server connection is established (screen ), and if the server notes that there is already an online account associated with the current location by comparison of a network address of the thermostat  with that of other currently registered thermostats, then screen  is displayed, asking the user if they want to add the current thermostat to the existing account. If the user selects \u201cADD,\u201d the thermostat is added to the existing account as shown in screens  and . After adding the current thermostat to the online account. If there is more than one thermostat on the account a procedure is offered to copy settings, beginning with screen . In , screen  notifies the user that another thermostat, in this case named \u201cLiving Room,\u201d is also associated with the user's account, and asks the user if the settings should be copies. If the user selects \u201cCOPY SETTINGS\u201d then the screen  is displayed with a spinner  while settings are copied to the new thermostat. According to some embodiments, one or more of the following settings are copied: account pairing, learning preferences (e.g. \u201clearning on\u201d or \u201clearning off\u201d), heating or cooling mode (if feasible), location, setup interview answers, current schedule and off-season schedule (if any).","Advantageous functionalities can be provided by two different instances of the thermostat unit  located in a common enclosure, such as a family home, that are associated with a same user account in the cloud-based management server, such as the account \u201ctomsmith3@mailhost.com\u201d in . For purposes of the present description it can be presumed that each thermostat is a \u201cprimary\u201d thermostat characterized in that it is connected to an HVAC system and is responsible for controlling that HVAC system, which can be distinguished from an \u201cauxiliary\u201d thermostat having many of the same sensing and processing capabilities of the thermostat  except that an \u201cauxiliary\u201d thermostat does not connect to an HVAC system, but rather influences the operation of one or more HVAC systems by virtue of its direct or indirect communication with one or more primary thermostats. However, the scope of the present disclosure is not so limited, and thus in other embodiments there can be cooperation among various combinations of primary and\/or auxiliary thermostats.","A particular enclosure, such as a family home, can use two primary thermostats  where there are two different HVAC systems to control, such as a downstairs HVAC system located on a downstairs floor and an upstairs HVAC system located on an upstairs floor. Where the thermostats have become logically associated with a same user account at the cloud-based management server, such as by operation of the screens , , , the two thermostats advantageously cooperate with one another in providing optimal HVAC control of the enclosure as a whole. Such cooperation between the two thermostats can be direct peer-to-peer cooperation, or can be supervised cooperation in which the central cloud-based management server supervises them as one or more of a master, referee, mediator, arbitrator, and\/or messenger on behalf of the two thermostats. In one example, an enhanced auto-away capability is provided, wherein an \u201caway\u201d mode of operation is invoked only if both of the thermostats have sensed a lack of activity for a requisite period of time. For one embodiment, each thermostat will send an away-state \u201cvote\u201d to the management server if it has detected inactivity for the requisite period, but will not go into an \u201caway\u201d state until it receives permission to do so from the management server. In the meantime, each thermostat will send a revocation of its away-state vote if it detects occupancy activity in the enclosure. The central management server will send away-state permission to both thermostats only if there are current away-state votes from each of them. Once in the collective away-state, if either thermostat senses occupancy activity, that thermostat will send a revocation to the cloud-based management server, which in turn will send away-state permission revocation (or an \u201carrival\u201d command) to both of the thermostats. Many other types of cooperation among the commonly paired thermostats (i.e., thermostats associated with the same account at the management server) can be provided without departing from the scope of the present teachings.","Where there is more than one thermostat for a particular enclosure and those thermostats are associated with the same account on the cloud-based management server, one preferred method by which that group of thermostats can cooperate to provide enhanced auto-away functionality is as follows. Each thermostat maintains a group state information object that includes (i) a local auto-away-ready (AAR) flag that reflects whether that individual thermostat considers itself to be auto-away ready, and (ii) one or more peer auto-away-ready (AAR) flags that reflect whether each other thermostat in the group considers itself to be auto-away ready. The local AAR flag for each thermostat appears as a peer AAR flag in the group state information object of each other thermostat in the group. Each thermostat is permitted to change its own local AAR flag, but is only permitted to read its peer AAR flags. It is a collective function of the central cloud-based management server and the thermostats to communicate often enough such that the group state information object in each thermostat is maintained with fresh information, and in particular that the peer AAR flags are kept fresh. This can be achieved, for example, by programming each thermostat to immediately communicate any change in its local AAR flag to the management server, at which time the management server can communicate that change immediately with each other thermostat in the group to update the corresponding peer AAR flag. Other methods of direct peer-to-peer communication among the thermostats can also be used without departing from the scope of the present teachings.","According to a preferred embodiment, the thermostats operate in a consensus mode such that each thermostat will only enter into an actual \u201caway\u201d state if all of the AAR flags for the group are set to \u201cyes\u201d or \u201cready\u201d. Therefore, at any particular point in time, either all of the thermostats in the group will be in an \u201caway\u201d state, or none of them will be in the \u201caway\u201d state. In turn, each thermostat is configured and programmed to set its AAR flag to \u201cyes\u201d if either or both of two sets of criteria are met. The first set of criteria is met when all of the following are true: (i) there has been a period of sensed inactivity for a requisite inactivity interval according to that thermostat's sensors such as its passive infrared (PIR) motion sensors, active infrared proximity sensors (PROX), and other occupancy sensors with which it may be equipped; (ii) the thermostat is \u201cauto-away confident\u201d in that it has previously qualified itself as being capable of sensing statistically meaningful occupant activity at a statistically sufficient number of meaningful times, and (iii) other basic \u201creasonableness criteria\u201d for going into an auto-away mode are met, such as (a) the auto-away function was not previously disabled by the user, (b) the time is between 8 AM and 8 PM if the enclosure is not a business, (c) the thermostat is not in OFF mode, (d) the \u201caway\u201d state temperature is more energy-efficient than the current setpoint temperature, and (e) the user is not interacting with the thermostat remotely through the cloud-based management server. The second set of criteria is met when all of the following are true: (i) there has been a period of sensed inactivity for a requisite inactivity interval according to that thermostat's sensors, (ii) the AAR flag of at least one other thermostat in the group is \u201cyes\u201d, and (iii) the above-described \u201creasonableness\u201d criteria are all met. Advantageously, by special virtue of the second set of alternative criteria by which an individual thermostat can set its AAR flag to \u201cyes\u201d, it can be the case that all of the thermostats in the group can contribute the benefits of their occupancy sensor data to the group auto-away determination, even where one or more of them are not \u201cauto-away confident,\u201d as long as there is at least one member that is \u201cauto-away confident.\u201d This method has been found to increase both the reliability and scalability of the energy-saving auto-away feature, with reliability being enhanced by virtue of multiple sensor locations around the enclosure, and with scalability being enhanced in that the \u201cmisplacement\u201d of one thermostat (for example, installed at an awkward location behind a barrier that limits PIR sensitivity) causing that thermostat to be \u201caway non-confident\u201d will not jeopardize the effectiveness or applicability of the group consensus as a whole.","It is to be appreciated that the above-described method is readily extended to the case where there are multiple primary thermostats and\/or multiple auxiliary thermostats. It is to be further appreciated that, as the term primary thermostat is used herein, it is not required that there be a one-to-one correspondence between primary thermostats and distinct HVAC systems in the enclosure. For example, there are many installations in which plural \u201czones\u201d in the enclosure may be served by a single HVAC system by virtue of controllable dampers that can stop and\/or redirect airflow to and among the different zones from the HVAC system. In such cases, there can be a primary thermostat for each zone, each of the primary thermostats being wired to the HVAC system as well as to the appropriate dampers to regulate the climate of its respective zone.","Referring now again to , in screen  a name is entered for the thermostat, assuming the thermostat is being installed in a dwelling rather than in a business. The list of choices  is larger than the screen allows, so according to some embodiments the list  scrolls up and down responsive to user ring rotation so the user can view all the available choices. For purposes of clarity of description, it is to be appreciated that when a listing of menu choices is illustrated in the drawings of the present disclosure as going beyond the spatial limits of a screen, such as shown with listing  of screen , those menu choices will automatically scroll up and down as necessary to be viewable by the user as they rotate the rotatable ring . The available choices of names in this case are shown, including an option to enter a custom name (by selecting \u201cTYPE NAME\u201d). The first entry \u201cNest 2\u201d is a generic thermostat name, and assumes there is already a thermostat on the account named \u201cNest 1.\u201d If there already is a \u201cNest 2\u201d thermostat then the name \u201cNest 3\u201d will be offered, and so on. If the user selects \u201cTYPE NAME,\u201d then a character entry user interface  is used to enter a name. Screen  shows a thermostat naming screen analogous to screen  except that is represents a case in which the thermostat  is being installed in a business rather than a dwelling. Screen  is displayed when thermostat learning (or self-programing) features are turned \u201con.\u201d In this case the user is asked if the current schedule from the other thermostat should be copied. Screens ,  and  show what is displayed after completion of the Internet connection, server connection and pairing procedures are completed. Screen  is used in the case there an Internet connection is established, but no pairing is made with a user account on the server. Screen  is used in the case where both an Internet connection and pairing the user's account on the server is established. Finally, screen  is used in the case where no internet connection was successfully established. In all cases the next setup topic is \u201cHeating and Cooling.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5E","b":["574","575","575","574","578","1","579","1","1","580","580","582","584","585","1","1","1","1","300","300"],"sub":["H ","1 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 5F","FIG. 3A"],"b":["586","316","588","590","592","312","594","596"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 5D"],"b":["300","316","312","600","602","604","608","608","562","607","609","606","606"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":["610","612","614","616","620","622"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 6C","b":["630","632","300","636","640","638","642"]},"If the user selects \u201cHEATING\u201d at screen , then in screen  the user is asked to set a low-energy-using \u201caway\u201d heating temperature that should be maintained when the home or business is unoccupied. According to some embodiments the default value offered to the user is 65 degrees F., the maximum value selectable by the user is 75 degrees F., the minimum value selectable is 55 degrees F., and a \u201cleaf\u201d (or other suitable energy-savings-encouragement indicator) is displayed when the user selects a value below 63 degrees F. Screens  and  show examples of the user inputting 63 and 62 degrees respectively. According to some embodiments, a schedule is then created while the screen  is displayed to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 6D","b":["650","652","654"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7K","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 7A"],"b":["300","316","312","700"]},"According to some alternate embodiments, parameters other than simply the difference in current to setpoint temperature can be used in displaying background colors and intensity. For example, time-to-temp (the estimated amount of time it will take to reach the current setpoint temperature), amount of energy, and\/or cost, if accurately known can also be used alone or in combination determine which color and how intense (or opaque) is used for the background of the thermostat display.","According to some preferred embodiments the characters and other graphics are mainly displayed in white overlying the black, orange or blue backgrounds as described above. Other colors for certain displayed features, such green for the \u201cleaf\u201d logo are also used according to some embodiments. Although many of the screens shown and described herein are provided in the accompanying drawings with black characters and graphics overlaying a white background for purposes of clarity and print reproduction, it is to be understood that the use of white or colored graphics and characters over black and colored backgrounds such is generally preferable for enhancing the user experience, particularly for embodiments where the electronic display  is a backlit dot matrix LCD display similar to those used on handheld smartphones and touchpad computers. Notably, although the presently described color schemes have been found to be particularly effective, it is to be appreciated that the scope of the present teachings is not necessarily so limited, and that other impactful schemes could be developed for other types of known or hereinafter developed electronic display technologies (e.g., e-ink, electronic paper displays, organic LED displays, etc.) in view of the present description without departing from the scope of the present teachings.","In , screen  has a red-orange background color with white central numerals  indicating the current setpoint of 72 degrees F. The current setpoint of 72 degrees is also shown by the large tick mark . The current ambient temperature is 70 degrees as shown by the small numerals  and the tick mark . Other tick marks in a circular arrangement are shown in a more transparent (or more muted) white color, to give the user a sense of the range of adjustments and temperatures, in keeping with the circular design of the thermostat, display area and rotatable ring. According to some embodiments, the circular arrangement of background tick marks are sized and spaced apart so that 180 tick marks would complete a circle, but 40 tick marks are skipped at the bottom, such that a maximum of 140 tick marks are displayed. The setpoint tick mark  and the current temperature tick mark  may replace some the of the background tick marks such that not all of the background tick marks are displayed. Additionally, the current temperature is displayed numerically using numerals  which can also be overlaid, or displayed in muted or transparent fashion over the background tick marks. According to some embodiments, so as to accentuate visibility the setpoint tick mark  is displayed in 100% opacity (or 0% transparency), is sized such that it extends 20% farther towards the display center than the background tick marks, and is further emphasized by the adjacent background tick marks not being displayed. According to some embodiments, a time-to-temperature display  is used to indicate the estimated time needed to reach the current setpoint, as is described more fully co-pending commonly assigned patent application U.S. Ser. No. 12\/984,602.  shows a screen , which displays a \u201cHEAT TO\u201d message  indicating that the HVAC system is in heating mode, although currently is not active (\u201cHEATING\u201d will be displayed when the HVAC system is active). According to some embodiments, the background color of screen  is a neutral color such as black. A fan logo  can be displayed indicating the fan is active without any associated heating or cooling. Further, a lock icon  can be displayed when the thermostat is locked.  shows a screen  which has the message  \u201cCOOLING\u201d indicating that cooling is being called for, in addition to a background color such as blue. In this case, the message  \u201cCOOLING\u201d is displayed instead of the time-to-temp display since there may be low confidence in the time-to-temp number may (such as due to insufficient data for a more accurate estimation). In , screen  shows an example similar to screen , but with the time-to-temp  displayed instead of message , indicating that there is a higher confidence in the time-to-temp estimation. Note that the background color of screen  and  are bluish so as to indicate HVAC cooling is active, although the color may be partially muted or partially transparent since the current setpoint temperature and current ambient temperature is relatively close.","According to some embodiments, to facilitate the protection of compressor equipment from damage, such as with conventional cooling compressors or with heat pump heating compressors, the thermostat prevents re-activation of a compressor within a specified time period (\u201clockout period\u201d) from de-activation, so as to avoid compressor damage that can occur if the de-activation to re-activation interval is too short. For example, the thermostat can be programmed to prevent re-activation of the compressor within a lockout interval of 2 minutes after de-activation, regardless of what happens with the current ambient temperature and\/or current setpoint temperature within that lockout interval. Longer or shorter lockout periods can be provided, with 2 minutes being just one example of a typical lockout period. During this lockout period, according to some embodiments, a message such as message  in screen  of  is displayed, which provides a visually observable countdown until the end of the lockout interval, so as to keep the user informed and avoid confusion on the user's part as to why the compressor has not yet started up again.","According to some embodiments, a manual setpoint change will be active until an effective time of the next programmed setpoint. For example, if at 2:38 PM the user walks up to the thermostat  and rotates the outer ring  (see , supra) to manually adjust the setpoint to 68 degrees F., and if the thermostat  has a programmed schedule containing a setpoint that is supposed to take effect at 4:30 PM with a setpoint temperature that is different than 68 degrees F., then the manual setpoint temperature change will only be effective until 4:30 PM. According to some embodiments, a message such as message  (\u201ctill 4:30 PM\u201d) will be displayed on screen  in , which informs the user that their setpoint of 68 degrees F. will be in effect until 4:30 PM.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 7G","FIG. 7H","FIG. 7G"],"b":["706","300","706","707","724"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 7I","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D","FIG. 7J"],"b":["708","708","750","740","718","716","638","648","654"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 7J","FIG. 7K","FIG. 8C","FIG. 7K"],"b":["709","752","750","740","740","740","710","300","300","300","312","814","718","716","740"]},"According to a preferred embodiment, all of the operational screens of the thermostat  described herein that correspond to normal everyday operations, such as the screens of , will actually only appear when the proximity sensor A (see , supra) indicates the presence of a user or occupant in relatively close proximity (e.g., 50 cm-200 cm or closer) to the thermostat , and the electronic display  will otherwise be dark. While the user is proximal to the thermostat  the electronic display  will remain active, and when the user walks away out of proximity the electronic display  will remain active for a predetermined period of time, such as 20 seconds, and then will go dark. In contrast to an alternative of keeping the electronic display  active all of the time, this selective turn-on and turn-off of the electronic display has been found to be a preferable method of operation for several reasons, including the savings of electrical power that would otherwise be needed for an always-on electronic display , extension of the hardware life of the electronic display , and also aesthetic reasons for domestic installations. The savings of electrical power is particularly advantageous for installations in which there is no \u201cC\u201d wire provided by the HVAC system, since it will often be the case that the average power that can safely obtained from power-stealing methods will be less than the average power used by a visually pleasing hardware implementation of the electronic display  when active. Advantageously, by designing the thermostat  with the rechargeable battery  and programming its operation such that the electronic display  will only be active when there is a proximal viewer, the electronic display  itself can be selected and sized to be bright, bold, informative, and visually pleasing, even where such operation takes more instantaneous average electrical power than the power stealing can provide, because the rechargeable battery  can be used to provide the excess power needed for active display, and then can be recharged during periods of lesser power usage when the display is not active. This is to be contrasted with many known prior art electronic thermostats whose displays are made very low-power and less visually pleasing in order to keep the thermostat's instantaneous power usage at budget power-stealing levels. Notably, it is also consistent with the aesthetics of many home environments not to have a bright and bold display on at all times, such as for cases in which the thermostat is located in a bedroom, or in a media viewing room such as a television room. The screens of  can be considered as the \u201cmain\u201d display for thermostat  in that these are the screens that are most often shown to the user as they walk up to the thermostat  in correspondence with normal everyday operation.","According to one embodiment, the thermostat  is programmed and configured such that, upon the detection of a working \u201cC\u201d wire at device installation and setup, the user is automatically provided with a menu choice during the setup interview (and then revised later at any time through the settings menu) whether they would like the electronic display  to be on all the time, or only upon detection of a proximal user. If a \u201cC\u201d wire is not detected, that menu choice is not provided. A variety of alternative display activation choices can also be provided, such as allowing the user to set an active-display timeout interval (e.g., how long the display remains active after the user has walked away), allowing the user to choose a functionality similar to night lighting or safety lighting (i.e., upon detection of darkness in the room by the ambient light sensor B, the display will be always-on), and other useful functionalities. According to yet another embodiment, if the presence of a \u201cC\u201d wire is not detected, the thermostat  will automatically test the power stealing circuitry to see how much power can be tapped without tripping the call relay(s), and if that amount is greater than a certain threshold, then the display activation menu choices are provided, but if that amount is less than the certain threshold, the display activation menu choices are not provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-C","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 8A","FIG. 7A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8C","FIG. 7A"],"b":["300","316","312","800","7","800","820","801","820","820","822","312","312","802","804","312","804","806","809","809","810","812","822","808","810","812","810","812","812","809","808","814","814","814","808","820"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-J","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 9A","FIG. 8A","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 7A","FIGS. 7A-K"],"b":["10","300","316","312","900","804","312","900","312","902","908","901","906","912","916","916","908","900","900","900","901","900","900"]},"Screen  has a central disk  indicating the name of the sub-menu, in this case the Fan mode. Some sub menus only contain a few options which can be selected or toggled among by inward clicking alone. For example, the Fan sub-menu  only has two settings \u201cautomatic\u201d (shown in screen ) and \u201calways on\u201d (shown in screen ). In this case the fan mode is changed by inward clicking, which simply toggles between the two available options. Ring rotation shifts to the next (or previous) settings sub-menu item. Thus rotating the ring from the fan sub-menu shift to the system on\/off sub-menu shown in screens  (in the case of system \u201cON\u201d) and  (in the case of system \u201cOFF\u201d). The system on\/off sub-menu is another example of simply toggling between the two available options using the inward click user input.","In , screen  is the top level of the lock sub-menu. If the thermostat is connected and paired (i.e., has Internet access and is appropriately paired with a user account on a cloud-based server), an inward click will lead to screen . At screen , the user can vary the highlighting between the displayed selections by rotating the rotatable ring , and then can select the currently displayed menu item by inward clicking the rotatable ring . If \u201cLOCKED\u201d is selected then the user is asked to enter a locking PIN in screen . If the thermostat is already locked then screen  is displayed instead of screen . If the thermostat is unlocked then a PIN confirmation is requested such as in screen . If the confirmation PIN does not match then the user is asked to enter a new PIN in screen . If the confirmation PIN matches, then the temperature limits are set in screens  and\/or  in . The described locking capability can be useful in a variety of contexts, such as where a parent desires the limit the ability of their teenager to set the temperature too high in winter or too low in summer. According to some embodiments, locking of the thermostat is not permitted if the thermostat is not connected to the Internet or is not paired to an account, so that an online backup method of unlocking the thermostat is available should the user forget the PIN number. In such case, if the thermostat is not connected to the Internet, then screen  is displayed, and if the thermostat is not paired then screen  is displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 9C","b":["938","939","938","939","940","940","946","941","942","943","944","945","943","944","945"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 9D","b":["928","928","929","929","930","931","932","933","934","934","933","935","937","936","929"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 9E","FIG. 9D"],"b":["950","958","950","951","952","953","954"]},"Upon user ring rotation at screen , screen  is displayed which allows entry to the auto-away sub-menu. Screen  asks if the auto-away feature should be active. Screen  notifies the user about the auto-away feature. Screen  is an example showing the user the status of training and\/or confidence in the occupancy sensors. Other examples instead of screen  include \u201cTOO LOW FOR AUTO-AWAY\u201d and \u201cENOUGH FOR AUTO-AWAY,\u201d as appropriate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 9F","FIG. 9F","FIG. 8C"],"b":["960","961","962","963","964","965","312","966","967","316","316"],"sup":["5","5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 9G","b":["968","969","970","969","970","971","972"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 9H","FIG. 9H"],"b":["974","974","975","976","312","977","975","978","979","980"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 10A","b":["1000","1000","1002","1004","1006","1008","1008","1010","1012"],"i":["a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 10B","b":["1014","1014","1014","1016","1018","312","1020","1020","1020","1022"],"i":["a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIGS. 10C and 10D","FIG. 10C","FIG. 5E"],"b":["1024","1024","1026","574","1028","1029","1030","1032","1034","1036","1038"],"i":"a "},"In , screen  shows an example of a wiring warning, which is denoted by a yellow or otherwise highlighted disk next to the connector terminal label \u201ccool\u201d. An inward click input leads to an explanation of the warning, in this case being an error in which there is a wire insertion detected at terminal Y but no electronic signature consistent with a cooling system can be sensed. Note that the wiring warning shown in this example is not serious enough to block operation. However, some wiring errors are serious enough such that HVAC operation is blocked. An example is shown in screen  where the wires are detected on the C and Rc terminals but no power is detected. A red disk appears next to the terminal connected labeled \u201ccool\u201d which indicates a wiring error. Clicking leads to an explanation screen  and a notification screen , followed by a mandatory thermostat shut down (blank screen ). Examples of detected wiring warnings that do not block operation, and wiring errors that block operation, are discussed supra with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIGS. 10E and 10F","FIG. 10F"],"b":["1052","1052","1054","1055","1056","1057","1054","1059","1060","1061","1062","1054","1062","1063","1064","1063","1064","1064","300","1054","1065","1066","1067","1068","1070","1071"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIGS. 10G","b":["10","10","1072","1072","1073","1074","1075","1076","1075","1076","1073","1077","1078","1079","1080","1072","1082","1073","1082","1083","1084","1085","1086","1087"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 10I","b":["1088","1090","1092","1094","1095","1096","1072"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A-D","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 11C","FIG. 11D"],"b":["300","316","312","1100","1101","1103","1104","1105","1100","1101","1103","1104","1105","1106","1107","1108","1109","1110","1111","1112","1113","1114","1116","1117","1118","410","440","1120","1121","1122","1123","1124","1125","1120","1130","1131","1132","1133"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A and 12B","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 12A","FIG. 8A","FIG. 7A"],"b":["300","316","312","1200","820","822","1210","1212","1214","1210","1204","1204","1206","1210","1212","1214","1220","1230","1222"]},"According to some embodiments, timewise navigation within the week-long schedule is accomplished using the rotatable ring  (shown in ). Rotating the ring clockwise shifts the schedule in one direction, such as in screen , which is moves forward in time (i.e. the schedule plot area shifts to the left relative to the centrally located current schedule time cursor bar , and the analog clock  spins forward in displayed time). Rotating the ring counter-clockwise does the opposite, as shown in screen , shifting the schedule backwards in time (i.e. the schedule plot area shifts to the right relative to the centrally located current schedule time cursor bar , and the analog clock  spins backward in displayed time). According to some preferred embodiments, the schedule time adjustment using the rotatable ring is acceleration-based. That is, the speed that the schedule time is adjusted is based on the speed of rotation of the ring, such that detailed adjustments in the current schedule time can be made by slowly rotating the ring, while shifts from day to day or over multiple days can be made by rapidly rotating the ring. According to some embodiments, the difference in acceleration rate factor is about 4 to 1 between the fastest and slowest rotating speeds to achieve both adequate precision and easy movement between days, or to the end of the week. Screen  shows an example of more rapid movement of the rotatable ring, where the schedule has been shifted at a higher rate factor than in screen . According to some embodiments the schedule time adjustments are accompanied by audible \u201cclick sound\u201d or other noise to provide further feedback and further enhance the user interface experience. According to some preferred embodiments, the audible clicks correspond to each 15 minutes of schedule time that passes the time cursor bar .","If the time cursor bar  is not positioned on an existing setpoint, such as shown in screen , and an inward click is received, a create new setpoint option will be offered, as in screen  of . In screen , if the user selects \u201cNEW\u201d then a new setpoint disk  will appear on the time cursor bar , as shown in screen . For some embodiments, this \u201cbirth\u201d of the new setpoint disk  proceeds by virtue of an animation similar to that illustrated in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 29\/399,637, supra, wherein, as soon as the user clicks on \u201cNEW,\u201d a very small disk (much smaller than the disk  at screen ) appears near the top of the cursor bar , and then progressively grows into its full-size version  as it visibly \u201cslides\u201d downward to \u201cland\u201d at a vertical location corresponding to a starting temperature setpoint value. For some embodiments, the starting temperature setpoint value is equal to that of an immediately preceding setpoint in the schedule. Rotating the ring will then adjust the setpoint temperature of the new setpoint disk  upward or downward from that starting temperature setpoint value. According to some embodiments, an energy savings encouragement indicator, such as the leaf logo , is displayed when the new setpoint temperature corresponds to energy-saving (and\/or cost saving) parameters, which aids the user in making energy-saving decisions. Once the temperature for the new setpoint is satisfactory, an inward click allows adjustment of the setpoint time via the rotatable ring, as shown in screen . Once the start time for the new setpoint is satisfactory, another inward click establishes the new setpoint, as shown in screen . If the time cursor bar  is positioned on an existing setpoint, such as shown in screen , an inward click brings up a menu screen  in which the user can choose to change the setpoint, remove the setpoint or return out of the schedule viewer\/editor. If the user selects \u201cCHANGE\u201d then the user can make adjustments to the temperature and start time similar to the methods shown in screens  and , respectively.","According to some embodiments, setpoints must be created on even quarter-hours (i.e. on the hour, or 15, 30 or 45 minutes past), and two setpoints cannot be created or moved to be less than 60 minutes apart. Although the examples shown herein display a week-long schedule, according to other embodiments, other time periods can be used for the displayed schedule, such as daily, 3-day, two weeks, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 8A","FIG. 13","FIG. 7A","FIG. 9A"],"b":["300","316","312","1310","1302","1310","1312","1314","1316","1318","900","902","908","1332","1334","1322","1340","1342","1312","1314","1318","1322","1324","1328"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 3A-4"],"b":["300","316","312","1410","1412","1414","1416","1418","1406","1402","73"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIGS. 15A-C","FIGS. 3A-4","FIG. 15A","FIG. 15B","FIG. 15C"],"b":["300","316","312","1500","1502","1504","1510","1512","1516","1518","1520","1522","1524","1530","1532","1534","1540","1542","1544","1546","1548"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A-16B","FIGS. 16A-16B"],"b":["1600","1600","1602","1604","1602","1606","1602","1606","1604","1604","1602","1606","1604","1608","1604","1608","1604","1610","1608","1612","1604"]},"As illustrated in , the user can perform a ring rotation to change the setpoint, with  showing a new setpoint of 73 degrees along with a shift in the setpoint tick mark  to a different arc location representative of the higher setpoint, and with a current temperature tick mark  and current temperature numerical display  appearing as shown. As with other embodiments, there is preferably a \u201csweeping\u201d visual display of tick marks (not illustrated in ) that sweeps from the current temperature tick mark  to the setpoint temperature tick mark , analogous to the tick mark sweep shown in , supra. With the exception of the differently implemented ring rotation facility and the changing of various display layouts to conform to the rectangular electronic display screen , operation of the thermostat  is preferably similar to that of the circularly-shaped thermostat embodiments described supra. Thus, by way of non-limiting example, the thermostat  is configured to provide a menu options screen (not shown) on electronic display  that contains menu options such as Heat\/Cool, Schedule, Energy, Settings, Away, and Done, and to function similarly to that shown in  responsive to rotation of the belt-style rotatable ring , with the exception that instead of the electronically displayed words moving around in a circular trajectory, those words move around in a rectangular trajectory along the periphery of the electronic display .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIGS. 17A-17B","FIGS. 16A-16B"],"b":["1700","1700","1702","1704","1702","1702","1704","1702","1702","1704","1702","1702","1702","1704","1700","1708","1710","1714","1712","1716","1608","1610","1614","1612","1616","1702","1704"]},"Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity, it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. By way of example, it is within the scope of the present teachings for the rotatable ring of the above-described thermostat to be provided in a \u201cvirtual,\u201d \u201cstatic,\u201d or \u201csolid state\u201d form instead of a mechanical form, whereby the outer periphery of the thermostat body contains a touch-sensitive material similar to that used on touchpad computing displays and smartphone displays. For such embodiments, the manipulation by the user's hand would be a \u201cswipe\u201d across the touch-sensitive material, rather than a literal rotation of a mechanical ring, the user's fingers sliding around the periphery but not actually causing mechanical movement. This form of user input, which could be termed a \u201cvirtual ring rotation,\u201d \u201cstatic ring rotation\u201d, \u201csolid state ring rotation\u201d, or a \u201crotational swipe\u201d, would otherwise have the same purpose and effect of the above-described mechanical rotations, but would obviate the need for a mechanical ring on the device. Although not believed to be as desirable as a mechanically rotatable ring insofar as there may be a lesser amount of tactile satisfaction on the part of the user, such embodiments may be advantageous for reasons such as reduced fabrication cost. By way of further example, it is within the scope of the present teachings for the inward mechanical pressability or \u201cinward click\u201d functionality of the rotatable ring to be provided in a \u201cvirtual\u201d or \u201csolid state\u201d form instead of a mechanical form, whereby an inward pressing effort by the user's hand or fingers is detected using internal solid state sensors (for example, solid state piezoelectric transducers) coupled to the outer body of the thermostat. For such embodiments, the inward pressing by the user's hand or fingers would not cause actual inward movement of the front face of the thermostat as with the above-described embodiments, but would otherwise have the same purpose and effect as the above-described \u201cinward clicks\u201d of the rotatable ring. Optionally, an audible beep or clicking sound can be provided from an internal speaker or other sound transducer, to provide feedback that the user has sufficiently pressed inward on the rotatable ring or virtual\/solid state rotatable ring. Although not believed to be as desirable as the previously described embodiments, whose inwardly moving rotatable ring and sheet-metal style rebounding mechanical \u201cclick\u201d has been found to be particularly satisfying to users, such embodiments may be advantageous for reasons including reduced fabrication cost. It is likewise within the scope of the present teachings for the described thermostat to provide both the ring rotations and inward clicks in \u201cvirtual\u201d or \u201csolid state\u201d form, whereby the overall device could be provided in fully solid state form with no moving parts at all.","By way of further example, although described above as having ring rotations and inward clicks as the exclusive user input modalities, which has been found particularly advantageous in terms of device elegance and simplicity, it is nevertheless within the scope of the present teachings to alternatively provide the described thermostat with an additional button, such as a \u201cback\u201d button. In one option, the \u201cback\u201d button could be provided on the side of the device, such as described in the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No. 13\/033,573, supra. In other embodiments, plural additional buttons, such as a \u201cmenu\u201d button and so forth, could be provided on the side of the device. For one embodiment, the actuation of the additional buttons would be fully optional on the part of the user, that is, the device could still be fully controlled using only the ring rotations and inward clicks. However, for users that really want to use the \u201cmenu\u201d and \u201cback\u201d buttons because of the habits they may have formed with other computing devices such as smartphones and the like, the device would accommodate and respond accordingly to such \u201cmenu\u201d and \u201cback\u201d button inputs.","By way of even further example, other forms of user input modalities could be provided by the above-described thermostat as additions and\/or alternative to the above-described ring rotations and inward clicks without necessarily departing from the scope of the present teachings. Examples include optically sensed gesture-based user inputs similar to those provided with modern video game consoles, and voice inputs implemented using known speech recognition algorithms. It is to be appreciated that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly, the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the inventive body of work is not to be limited to the details given herein, which may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The inventive body of work will be readily understood by referring to the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIGS. 3A-3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-F","b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7K"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-H","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A-D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A and 12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 17A-B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
