---
title: Multi-homed peer-to-peer network
abstract: Techniques are provided for efficient peer-to-peer (P2P) service discovery and group formation, as well as maintenance of P2P session continuity. In one example, there is provided a method, operable by an originating user equipment (UE), that may involve transmitting a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance to a discovery server via a serving node over an air-interface channel. The method may involve receiving scoped information from the discovery server for participating in a P2P communication session, and establishing the P2P communication session with at least one terminating UE based at least in part on the received scoped information. The method may involve maintaining P2P communication session continuity by reverting to bearer signaling via a packet core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351143&OS=09351143&RS=09351143
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09351143
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110531
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61\/350,433 filed Jun. 1, 2010, entitled \u201cMULTI-HOMED PEER-TO-PEER NETWORK\u201d, which is hereby expressly incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.","1. Field","The present disclosure relates to a mobile operating environment, and more particularly, to a packet data network gateway facilitating service discovery, group formation and session continuity for peer-to-peer (P2P) networking.","2. Background","Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication content such as voice, video, packet data, messaging, broadcast, etc. These wireless networks may be multiple-access networks capable of supporting multiple users by sharing the available network resources. Examples of such multiple-access networks include Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) networks, Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) networks, Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA) networks, Orthogonal FDMA (OFDMA) networks, and Single-Carrier FDMA (SC-FDMA) networks.","A wireless communication network may include a number of base stations that can support communication for a number of mobile entities, such as, for example, user equipments (UEs). A UE may communicate with a base station via the downlink and uplink. The downlink (or forward link) refers to the communication link from the base station to the UE, and the uplink (or reverse link) refers to the communication link from the UE to the base station. Such communication links may be established via a single-in-single-out, multiple-in-signal-out, or a multiple-in-multiple-out (MIMO) system.","Dual mode (or multi-mode) mobiles refer to UEs that are compatible with more than one form of data transmission or network, as contrasted with single-mode mobiles. For instance, a multi-mode UE may use more than one technique for sending and receiving voice and data. Multi-mode can refer to network compatibility, such as UEs containing two types of cellular radios for voice and data. In another aspect, a dual mode UE can use both cellular and non-cellular radios for voice and data communication. For example, a given dual mode UE may use cellular radio that contain GSM\/CDMA\/W-CDMA, as well as another technology like IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi) radio, WiMAX, or Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (DECT) radio. In related aspects, Wi-Fi is a subset of wireless local area network (WLAN) that links devices via a wireless distribution method (typically spread-spectrum or OFDM) and usually provides a connection through an access point to the wider Internet. This gives users the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still be connected to the network. In further related aspects, WiMAX, an acronym for Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, provides fixed and fully mobile Internet access, and is based on the IEEE 802.16 standard.","Some multi-mode UEs can communicate peer-to-peer (P2P) which refers to a distributed network architecture composed of participants that make up a portion of their resources (such as processing power, disk storage or network bandwidth) directly available to other network participants, without the need for central coordination instances (such as servers or stable hosts).","While wireless P2P networking has a number of advantages, it can be difficult for service discovery to determine what devices are within range. If the service discovery is \u201cunscoped\u201d in the sense that the number of availability broadcasts or responses by the P2P UEs is not limited to devices that are likely to be within radio frequency (RF) range of each other, this can impose a significant burden on devices to broadcast their availability and to negotiate a connection. This can be especially troublesome in congested area with many devices that can consume available air link resources. Also, the number of responses to an unscoped service discovery may be excessive and irrelevant (e.g., the devices may be unlikely to be within RF range). In this context, there is a need for P2P UEs to efficiently discover available P2P services and to form groups. There is also a need for UEs within a group to maintain P2P session continuity even when the P2P communication link(s) between group members become weak or broken.","The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects, and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","In accordance with one or more aspects of the embodiments described herein, a method is provided for peer-to-peer (P2P) networking facilitated by a wireless wide area network, wherein the method may be performed by an originating user equipment (UE). Users register their services (e.g., P2P applications) and group formation information with a discovery server. A first user equipment may transmit a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance to a serving node (e.g., a discovery server) over an air-interface channel. The user may be configured with the Internet Protocol (IP) address or Domain Name System (DNS) resolvable Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the discovery server out-of-band. Service and group formation information may be received as part of a scoped service discovery (\u201cscoped\u201d in the sense that the number of responses is limited to devices that are likely to be within radio frequency (RF) range). A P2P communication session may be established with a second UE that responded to respective information as part of the group formation procedure. One or more members of the group may maintain P2P communication session continuity by reverting to bearer signaling via the packet core if they are no longer in RF range (or if they were not within RF range initially and still joined the group via the packet core). In related aspects, an electronic device (e.g., an originating UE or component(s) thereof) may be configured to execute the above described methodology.","In accordance with one or more aspects of the embodiments described herein, a method is provided for P2P networking facilitated by a wireless wide area network, wherein the method may be performed by a network entity (e.g., an eNB). A request may be received from a first UE for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance via a serving node over an air-interface channel. A scoped subset may be determined of a plurality of UEs that is appropriate for P2P service discovery. Information may be transmitted to the scoped subset of the plurality of UEs for participating in RF proximity discovery (i.e., to determine if the UEs of the scoped subset are within RF range). In related aspects, an electronic device (e.g., a network entity or component(s) thereof) may be configured to execute the above described methodology.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed, and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.","Techniques for supporting peer-to-peer (P2P) communication are described herein. The techniques may be used for various wireless communication networks such as wireless wide area networks (WWANs) and wireless local area networks (WLANs). The terms \u201cnetwork\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are often used interchangeably. The WWANs may be CDMA, TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, SC-FDMA and\/or other networks. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA), cdma2000, etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA (WCDMA) and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS-2000, IS-95 and IS-856 standards. A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), Ultra Mobile Broadband (UMB), IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX), IEEE 802.20, Flash-OFDM\u00ae, etc. UTRA and E-UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS). 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) and LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) are new releases of UMTS that use E-UTRA, which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC-FDMA on the uplink. UTRA, E-UTRA, UMTS, LTE, LTE-A and GSM are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP). cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2). A WLAN may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi), Hiperlan, etc.","The techniques described herein may be used for the wireless networks and radio technologies mentioned above as well as other wireless networks and radio technologies. For clarity, certain aspects of the techniques are described below for 3GPP network and WLAN, and LTE and WLAN terminology is used in much of the description below. The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.","Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident, however, that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["10","10","30","30"]},"An eNB may provide communication coverage for a macro cell, a pico cell, a femto cell, and\/or other types of cell. A macro cell may cover a relatively large geographic area (e.g., several kilometers in radius) and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A pico cell may cover a relatively small geographic area and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A femto cell may cover a relatively small geographic area (e.g., a home) and may allow restricted access by UEs having association with the femto cell (e.g., UEs in a Closed Subscriber Group (CSG)). In the example shown in , eNBs , , and may be macro eNBs for macro cell groups , , and , respectively. Each of the cell groups , , and may include a plurality (e.g., three) of cells or sectors. An eNB may be a pico eNB for a pico cell . An eNB may be a femto eNB or femto access point (FAP) for a femto cell ","Wireless network  may also include relays (not shown in ). A relay may be an entity that can receive a transmission of data from an upstream station (e.g., an eNB or a UE) and send a transmission of the data to a downstream station (e.g., a UE or an eNB). A relay may also be a UE that can relay transmissions for other UEs.","A network controller  may couple to a set of eNBs and may provide coordination and control for these eNBs. Network controller  may comprise a single network entity or a collection of network entities. Network controller  may communicate with the eNBs via a backhaul. The eNBs may also communicate with one another, e.g., directly or indirectly via a wireless or wired backhaul.","UEs  may be dispersed throughout wireless network , and each UE may be stationary or mobile. A UE may also be referred to as a mobile station, a terminal, an access terminal, a subscriber unit, a station, etc. A UE may be a cellular phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a wireless modem, a wireless communication device, a handheld device, a laptop computer, a cordless phone, a wireless local loop (WLL) station, a smart phone, a netbook, a smartbook, etc. A UE may be able to communicate with eNBs, relays, etc. A UE may also be able to communicate peer-to-peer (P2P) with other UEs.","Wireless network  may support operation on a single carrier or multiple carriers for each of the downlink and uplink. A carrier may refer to a range of frequencies used for communication and may be associated with certain characteristics. Operation on multiple carriers may also be referred to as multi-carrier operation or carrier aggregation. A UE may operate on one or more carriers for the downlink (or downlink carriers) and one or more carriers for the uplink (or uplink carriers) for communication with an eNB. The eNB may send data and control information on one or more downlink carriers to the UE. The UE may send data and control information on one or more uplink carriers to the eNB. In one design, the downlink carriers may be paired with the uplink carriers. In this design, control information to support data transmission on a given downlink carrier may be sent on that downlink carrier and an associated uplink carrier. Similarly, control information to support data transmission on a given uplink carrier may be sent on that uplink carrier and an associated downlink carrier. In another design, cross-carrier control may be supported. In this design, control information to support data transmission on a given downlink carrier may be sent on another downlink carrier (e.g., a base carrier) instead of the downlink carrier.","Wireless network  may support carrier extension for a given carrier. For carrier extension, different system bandwidths may be supported for different UEs on a carrier. For example, the wireless network may support (i) a first system bandwidth on a downlink carrier for first UEs (e.g., UEs supporting LTE Release 8 or 9 or some other release) and (ii) a second system bandwidth on the downlink carrier for second UEs (e.g., UEs supporting a later LTE release). The second system bandwidth may completely or partially overlap the first system bandwidth. For example, the second system bandwidth may include the first system bandwidth and additional bandwidth at one or both ends of the first system bandwidth. The additional system bandwidth may be used to send data and possibly control information to the second UEs.","Wireless network  may support data transmission via single-input single-output (SISO), single-input multiple-output (SIMO), multiple-input single-output (MISO), and\/or multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO). For MIMO, a transmitter (e.g., an eNB) may transmit data from multiple transmit antennas to multiple receive antennas at a receiver (e.g., a UE). MIMO may be used to improve reliability (e.g., by transmitting the same data from different antennas) and\/or to improve throughput (e.g., by transmitting different data from different antennas).","Wireless network  may support single-user (SU) MIMO, multi-user (MU) MIMO, Coordinated Multi-Point (CoMP), etc. For SU-MIMO, a cell may transmit multiple data streams to a single UE on a given time-frequency resource with or without precoding. For MU-MIMO, a cell may transmit multiple data streams to multiple UEs (e.g., one data stream to each UE) on the same time-frequency resource with or without precoding. CoMP may include cooperative transmission and\/or joint processing. For cooperative transmission, multiple cells may transmit one or more data streams to a single UE on a given time-frequency resource such that the data transmission is steered toward the intended UE and\/or away from one or more interfered UEs. For joint processing, multiple cells may transmit multiple data streams to multiple UEs (e.g., one data stream to each UE) on the same time-frequency resource with or without precoding.","Wireless network  may support hybrid automatic retransmission (HARQ) in order to improve reliability of data transmission. For HARQ, a transmitter (e.g., an eNB) may send a transmission of a data packet (or transport block) and may send one or more additional transmissions, if needed, until the packet is decoded correctly by a receiver (e.g., a UE), or the maximum number of transmissions has been sent, or some other termination condition is encountered. The transmitter may thus send a variable number of transmissions of the packet.","Wireless network  may support synchronous or asynchronous operation. For synchronous operation, the eNBs may have similar frame timing, and transmissions from different eNBs may be approximately aligned in time. For asynchronous operation, the eNBs may have different frame timing, and transmissions from different eNBs may not be aligned in time.","Wireless network  may utilize frequency division duplex (FDD) or time division duplex (TDD). For FDD, the downlink and uplink may be allocated separate frequency channels, and downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions may be sent concurrently on the two frequency channels. For TDD, the downlink and uplink may share the same frequency channel, and downlink and uplink transmissions may be sent on the same frequency channel in different time periods. In related aspects, the FAP synchronization algorithm described in further detail below may be applied to the FAPs using FDD or TDD duplexing.","In accordance with one or more aspects of the embodiments described herein, there is provided a technique for using application layer and\/or upper layer protocols to address how an originating UE registers scoped services and discovers scoped services, wherein the scope may reference to location (e.g., of a base station or of the UE), such that the discovered results are for other terminating UEs within the originating UE's scope (i.e., that are likely to be within RF range). The service discovery query may be for specific P2P applications and group formation information. Also described herein is a technique relating to how an originating UE forms or joins a group, or P2P direct communication links with one or more terminating UEs (i.e., the group formation procedure). Also described herein is a technique relating to how session continuity is maintained between a UE and one or more UEs in a P2P group if the UE moves and the P2P direct communication link is broken (i.e., one or more UEs are no longer within RF range).","It is noted that conventional service discovery mechanisms include Service Location Protocol, version 2 (SLPv2), Zeroconfig, Universal Plug and Play (UPnP), Web Services Dynamic Discovery (WS-Discovery), Universal Description, Discovery and Integration (UDDI), Representational State Transfer (REST)-based solution using Web services registry, Bluetooth, Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) presence service, Zigbee that is a specification for a suite of high level communication protocols using small, low-power digital radios based on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard, etc. However, the majority of these existing service discovery mechanisms are deficient for LTE P2P service discovery requirements, with the exception of a REST-based solution. The advantage of the REST-based solution is that it can also be used for P2P group formation and maintenance signaling between P2P peers. With respect to Extensible Markup Language (XML)-based solutions, options include SOAP over Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), as well as REST. In certain applications, REST may be preferred over SOAP because it makes proper use of HTTP methods.","To address these and other related issues, the techniques described herein may involve using Web services (i.e., REST which comprises HTTP, URI and XML schema\/document) to implement a scoped service discovery Web server which mobile stations can access via an application on the mobile station OS (i.e., a service discovery application). In related aspects, to address group formation, the techniques described herein may involve using Web services to exchange Internet Protocol (IP) packets between an originating UE and terminating UE(s) to trigger the terminating UE(s) to transmit a pilot signal or beacon and optionally report RF signal strength measurement to the originating UE (alternatively, the originating UE may propose to transmit its pilot signal or beacon instead). This makes it possible for the originating UE to determine if the terminating UE are within RF proximity of each other.","In further related aspects, to address the maintenance session continuity, the techniques described herein may involve using Dual Stack Mobile IPv6 (DSMIPv6) or Shim6 to allow a UE to switch between a direct P2P communication link and a communication link to a base station if conditions warrant, while maintaining transparency to the P2P application. In yet further related aspects, the techniques described herein can work for any Radio Access Technology (RAT) for both the direct P2P communication link and for the link to the base station because the techniques are primarily based upon by application layer\/upper layer protocols. This allows the use of the licensed spectrum, while at the same time making it possible for inter-operator mobile station P2P groups to be established. The techniques described herein are an improvement over conventional approaches, wherein the challenges for service discovery may be addressed at the Physical (PHY) layer, which may limit extensibility\/flexibility and RAT transparency. The techniques described herein are an improvement over other conventional approaches, which may involve addressing the group formation problem by using RAT specific control signaling instead of Web services\/IP layer.","With reference to , there is shown a wireless P2P system  which implements an upper layer technique for enhancing service discovery, group formation, and session continuity for a P2P air-interface channel  or a direct communications link  that carries signaling and bearer data  between originating and terminating UE  and , respectively. To facilitate this communication by scoping the discovery, the originating UE  and the terminating UE  may also communicate across a WWAN  by communicating with a Radio Access Network (RAN) , specifically an eNB , via an already-established Evolved Packet System (EPS) bearer. In some instances, the terminating UE  may be serviced by another eNB . If both the originating and terminating UEs ,  are serviced by the same eNB , the establishment of a P2P type-1 EPS bearer  across an LTE network architecture  may be made via an Evolved Packet Core (EPC) . Additional packet data may be exchanged with the Internet  via the EPC  or the like.","The originating UE  may contact a discovery server  that is in communication with the Internet  to obtain service discovery and group formation information . The originating UE  may then contacts the terminating UE  that supports a requested P2P application  to perform a group formation procedure.","The originating UE  may choose a specific packet data network (PDN) gateway (GW) (PDNGW)  for the establishment of the P2P type-1 EPS bearer based upon the results of the service discovery procedure. For example, the originating UE  may find that the terminating UE  is in the same cell or is serviced by the same eNB  as the originating UE . Thus, the PDNGW  can be co-located with the eNB . Consequently, the original EPS bearers that were used for service discovery, etc. are not used as P2P type-1 EPS bearers. In order to off-load traffic from the core network, a P2P type-1 EPS bearer can be established with a PDNGW co-located with the eNB  for both UEs in the event that the UEs ,  are not within RF proximity of each other (e.g., see EPS network architecture  of ). Note that even if the originating UE  and the terminating UE  are in different cells belonging to different eNBs, the PDNGW  co-located with the eNB  can still be used for the P2P type-1 EPS bearer establishment for both UEs if there is a connection between eNB  and eNB  (e.g., if an X2 interface exists between the eNBs , ).","In another example, the terminating UE  may be in another cell that is serviced by a different eNB  and there may be no connection (i.e., X2 interface) between eNB  and eNB ; thus, the PGNGW  can be located in the EPC  outside of the eNB  (in which case there is no need to establish a P2P type-1 EPS bearer, or to view it another way, the original EPS bearer that was used for service discovery, etc. may be the P2P type-1 EPS bearer). An already-established EPS bearer may be used in the event that the UEs ,  are not within RF proximity of each other. The P2P direct communications link , via the P2P type-2 EPS bearer , may then be established with little interaction with the RAN or core network. In the event of a disruption in the P2P direct communications link (i.e., the UEs ,  are not within RF proximity of each other and the P2P type-2 EPS bearer  cannot be used), the P2P type-1 EPS bearer  or already-established EPS bearers across the LTE network architecture  may be used, thereby providing session continuity.","In related aspects, a given apparatus, such as the originating UE , may be provided with an LTE P2P group owner application  for P2P networking, facilitated by a WWAN. The UE  may include a transmitter  for transmitting a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance to the discovery server  via the serving node  over the air-interface channel  (e.g., using an already-established EPS bearer). The UE  include have a receiver  for receiving scoped information from the discovery server  for participating in a P2P communication session. The UE  may include a computing platform  for establishing, via its transmitter  and receiver , the P2P communication session with the terminating UE  that uses an LTE P2P client application  or the like. Again, this may done using already-established EPS bearer(s).","In further related aspects, a given apparatus, such as the discovery server , may be provided with an LTE P2P network application  for P2P networking facilitated by a wireless wide area network. The server  may include a receiver  that receives, from the originating UE , a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance, via the serving node , over the air-interface channel . The server  may include a computing platform  that determines a scoped subset of a plurality of UEs that is\/are appropriate for P2P service discovery, wherein the UEs have previously registered their scoped services and group formation information with the server  or another discovery server in operative communication with the server . The server  may include a transmitter  transmits the information  of the scoped subset of the plurality of UEs to the originating UE . The discovery server  can also transmit such information to an LTE P2P client application  of the terminating UE , such as to prompt transmission of a pilot signal or beacon  by the UE . The discovery server  is also capable of receiving scope service registrations from UEs.","In view of exemplary systems shown and described herein, methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter, will be better appreciated with reference to various flow charts. While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts\/blocks, it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks, as some blocks may occur in different orders and\/or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover, not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement methodologies described herein. It is to be appreciated that functionality associated with blocks may be implemented by software, hardware, a combination thereof or any other suitable means (e.g., device, system, process, or component). Additionally, it should be further appreciated that methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram.","With reference to , there is shown a methodology  for P2P networking, operable by an originating UE or the like, that may be facilitated by a WWAN. An originating UE may transmit a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance to a discovery server via a serving node over an air-interface channel (block ). Previously, UEs may register their scoped services with the discovery server to facilitate later discovery. The user may be configured with the IP address or Domain Name System (DNS) resolvable Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the discovery server out-of-band. In response to the transmitted request, scoped information may be received from the discovery server for participating in a P2P communication session (block ). The P2P communication session may be established with at least one terminating UE (e.g., based at least in part on the received scoped information) (block ).","With reference to , there are shown further operations or aspects of the method  that are optional and may be performed by an originating UE or the like for P2P networking. If the method  includes at least one block of , then the method  may terminate after the at least one block, without necessarily having to include any subsequent downstream block(s) that may be illustrated. It is further noted that numbers of the blocks do not imply a particular order in which the blocks may be performed according to the method . For example, transmitting (block ) may involve communicating with the discovery server that scopes discovery by selecting a subset of a plurality of UEs determined to be proximate to the originating UE (block ). Receiving (block ) may involve receiving information directed to a scoped selection of UE based upon a selected at least one of location, network topologies, user roles, and context information (block ).","In related aspects, the method  may further involve selecting a packet delivery network gateway co-located with the serving node to establish communications with the at least one terminating UE that receives service from the serving node (block ). In the alternative, the method  may further involve selecting a packet delivery network gateway located in a packet core remote to the serving node to establish communications with the at least one terminating UE that receives service from another serving node (block ), and selecting a home agent (HA) (if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity) that communicates via an Internet and the packet core to establish communications with the at least one terminating UE (block ).","In further related aspects, establishing (block ) may involve receiving group formation instructions from the discovery server (block ), which may further involve receiving instructions for at least one of an automatic trigger for radio frequency (RF) proximity discovery, resource coordination among neighboring P2P groups, P2P group establishment criteria, addition of a member to an existing P2P group, and deletion of a member from an existing P2P group (block ). In yet further related aspects, the method  may further involve maintaining P2P communication session continuity by reverting to bearer signaling via the packet core (block ), such as, for example, if the UEs of the P2P group are no longer in RF range (or if they were not within RF range initially and still joined the group via the packet core). In still further related aspects, transmitting to and receiving from the serving node is in accordance with E-UTRA protocols or the like.","With reference to , there is shown a methodology  for P2P networking, operable by a network entity or the like, that may be facilitated by a WWAN. A request may be received from an originating UE for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance via a serving node over an air-interface channel (block ). A scoped subset of a plurality of UEs that are appropriate for P2P service discovery may be determined or identified by the network entity (block ). The network entity may transmit information of the scoped subset of the plurality of UEs (block ), such as, for participating in RF discovery (i.e., to determine if the UEs of the scoped subset are within RF range).","With reference to , there are shown further operations or aspects of the method  that are optional and may be performed by a network entity or the like for P2P networking. If the method  includes at least one block of , then the method  may terminate after the at least one block, without necessarily having to include any subsequent downstream block(s) that may be illustrated. It is further noted that numbers of the blocks do not imply a particular order in which the blocks may be performed according to the method . For example, the method  may further involve facilitating bearer signaling via the packet core for establishing a P2P communication session within the scoped subset of the plurality of UEs that responded to respective information as part of the scoped service discovery (block ). In related aspects, determining (at block ) may involve determining appropriateness of P2P communication based upon a selected at least one of location, network topologies, user roles, and context information (block ).","In further related aspects, the method  may further involve facilitating bearer signaling between the originating UE and at least one terminating UE, which is connected to the serving node, via a packet data network gate co-located with the serving node (block ). In the alternative, the method  may further involve facilitating bearer signaling between the originating UE and at least one terminating UE, which is connected to another node, via a packet data network gateway located in a packet core remote to the serving node (block ), and facilitating selection of an HA that communicates via an Internet and the packet core to establish communications with the at least one terminating UE (block ).","In yet further related aspects, the method  may further involve transmitting group formation instructions for establishing and maintaining the P2P communication session (block ). Transmitting (block ) may involve transmitting instructions for at least one of an automatic trigger for radio frequency proximity discovery, resource coordination among neighboring P2P groups, P2P group establishment criteria, addition of a member to an existing P2P group, and deletion of a member from an existing P2P group (block ). In still further related aspects, transmitting from and receiving at the serving node is in accordance with E-UTRA protocols or the like.","NETWORK ARCHITECTURE: With reference to , there is shown an optimized EPS network architecture  for LTE P2P direct communication  between UEs , , wherein a PDNGW  is co-located with an eNB . The architecture also includes an EPC that interfaces with a core network, depicted as Internet . In one aspect, the UEs ,  may communicate using LTE via IP version 6 (IPV6) or the like. Such an implementation may be desirable when the LTE P2P UEs ,  in a group are in the same cell  or in different cells belonging to or associated with the same eNB . With the shown architecture , it is possible to avoid having excessive amounts of P2P traffic routed through an EPC  when the UEs ,  in the group are not within RF proximity of each other, resulting in less delay. Note that even if the UEs  and  are in different cells belonging to different eNBs, the PDNGW  co-located with the eNB  can still be used for the P2P type-1 EPS bearer establishment for both UEs if there is a connection between the eNB  the other eNB (i.e., an X2 interface exists between the eNBs). In related aspects, there are two PDN connections for the implementation shown in . In further related aspects, an HA  may be included if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity.","With reference to , there is shown a non-optimized EPS network architecture for LTE P2P communication  for LTE P2P direct communication  between UEs , , wherein a PDNGW  is not co-located with an eNB . Such an implementation may be desirable when the LTE P2P UEs ,  in a group are in different cells ,  belonging to different eNBs (intra- or inter-operator) (e.g., eNB  for the cell ) and there is no connection (i.e., X2 interface) between the eNBs. Here, the P2P traffic may be routed through an EPC  that interfaces with a core network depicted as Internet , wherein the UEs ,  in the group are not within RF proximity of each other. The UEs ,  may experience more delay than for a co-located PDNGW. In related aspects, there is one PDN connection for the implementation shown in . In further related aspects, an HA  (co-located with PDNGW ) may be included if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity.","With reference to , there is illustrated another non-optimized EPS network architecture  for LTE P2P communication  between UEs , , wherein a PDNGW  is located outside of an eNB . Such an implementation may be desirable when the LTE P2P UEs ,  are in a group in different cells ,  belonging to different eNBs (intra- or inter-operator) (e.g., eNB  for cell ) and there is no connection (i.e., X2 interface) between the eNBs. P2P traffic may be routed through an EPC  that interfaces with a core network depicted as Internet  when the UEs ,  in a group are not within RF proximity of each other. An HA  (not co-located with PDNGW ) that is external to the EPC  may be included if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity.","BEARER ARCHITECTURE: With reference to , there are shown examples of bearer architecture  for supporting an LTE P2P client as a first UE  and an LTE P2P group owner as a second UE  when communicating via a P2P type-1 EPS bearer, such as a non-optimized architecture  or an optimized architecture . The former may include an eNB  and a serving gateway , as well as a PDNGW  which can include an HA . The latter may omit an SGW. Both the non-optimized architecture  and the optimized architecture  provide IPV6 support for communication between the first and second UEs , .","The bearer architecture  may also support a P2P type-2 EPS bearer depicted at , wherein the UEs ,  may communicate via unicast  (e.g., IPV6 support) or multicast  (e.g., link-local multicast) information delivery. In related aspects, the P2P type-1 EPS bearer may be for session continuity, whereas the P2P type-2 EPS bearer may be for when the UEs ,  are within RF range of each other.","In related aspects, details regarding the protocol and data architecture are shown in . With reference to , there is provided an embodiment of an LTE P2P client device (i.e., client UE) architecture , with aspects of the user plane depicted. In this embodiment, at the P2P application of the client device, the source IP address may be an LTE P2P client home address (HoA) or upper-layer identifier (ULID), whereas the destination IP address may be the LTE P2P group member's HoA or ULID. It is noted that HoA may be used if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity, and that ULID may be used if Shim6 is used for session continuity. At the LTE application, the source IP address may be the UE's IP address assigned during an Attach procedure or a UE requested PDN connectivity procedure, whereas the destination IP address may be the host\/server's IP address.  shows aspects of the control plane for an LTE P2P client device architecture , including the Signaling Radio Bearers (SRBs) for Radio Resource Control (RRC) and Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) signaling between an Radio Network Controller (RNC) and an UE.","With reference to , there is provided an embodiment of an LTE P2P group owner device (i.e., group owner UE) architecture , with aspects of the user plane depicted. In this embodiment, at the P2P application of the group owner device, the source IP address may be an LTE P2P group owner's HoA or ULID, whereas the destination IP address may be the LTE P2P group member's HoA or ULID. HoA may be used if DSMIPv6 is used for session continuity, and ULID may be used if Shim6 is used for session continuity. At the LTE application, the source IP address may be the UE's IP address assigned during an Attach procedure or a UE requested PDN connectivity procedure, whereas the destination IP address may be the host\/server's IP address.  shows aspects of the control plane for an embodiment of an LTE P2P group owner device architecture .","SERVICE DISCOVERY: The techniques described herein address LTE P2P service discovery by providing a \u201cscoped\u201d wide-area Internet unicast service discovery and registration in addition to link-local multicast service discovery. Manual and automatic selection options may be provided. Proper discovery scopes minimize or avoid unnecessary computation on clients, services, and directories. The scope of discovery may be based on location, network topologies, user roles, context information, or combinations of such information to help properly define service discovery session targets. Although discovery scopes limit the number of service matches, a discovery result might still contain a list of matched services. Further, a service discovery protocol may allow for manual or automatic selection options based upon the type of P2P application being activated.","In related aspects, service registration information can include: scope; UE FQDN (or IP address(es)); UE Proximity Detection Signal (PDS) (e.g., \u201cLong Peer-ID\u201d utilizing PHY\/Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol layers); list(s) of supported P2P RATs and RAT preferences (e.g., LTE P2P, WiFi Direct, Bluetooth, etc.); list(s) of supported service types and attributes; etc.","With reference to , there is provided an example of an LTE P2P service discovery procedure. At block , UEs - may register or update their \u201cscoped\u201d P2P services and attributes (e.g., stored on a discovery server or the like). With reference to , at subsequent block , a given UE  may request \u201cscoped\u201d P2P service and attributes for its P2P application (e.g., \u201cMyP2Papp\u201d), and a result may be returned to the given UE . The discovery server may be located within the operator EPC or may be external to it, wherein latter implementation allows an independent application vendor to develop and deploy LTE P2P applications independent of the operator.","GROUP FORMATION: The techniques described herein address LTE P2P group formation with an RF proximity application and a protocol to carry messages between UEs. The protocol may be either network-independent (e.g., REST-based) or network-dependent (e.g., LTE RRC signaling-based). The LTE P2P group formation may provide: automatic trigger for RF proximity discovery; resource coordination among neighboring P2P groups; P2P group establishment; addition\/deletion of new member(s) to\/from an existing P2P group, etc.","Group formation information generally depends upon the type of action being taken, and may encompass whether the originating UE is to transmit or listen to a PDS. In related aspects, a given UE may communicate its desire to be the Group Owner (i.e., Group Owner intent). For example, the Group Owner intent may represented by a 4 bit field where \u20181111\u2019=strongest desire to be Group Owner, and \u20180000\u2019=weakest desire to be Group Owner. In the event of a tie, the originating UE may be elected as the Group Owner. In further related aspects, the group formation information may include the UE IP address for the P2P type-1 EPS bearer, the HoA (if DSMIPv6 is used), the ULID (if Shim6 is used), as well as additional group formation information.","For example, in , an LTE P2P group formation procedure for trigger RF proximity discovery is depicted in block . After performing service discovery, a first user (shown on the bottom) requests, via an EPS bearer, that a second user (shown on the top) transmit its PDS. In , block  depicts the second user transmitting its PDS to the first user, via a P2P type-1 EPS bearer.","The LTE P2P group formation mechanisms can be network-independent while supporting inter-operator LTE P2P: SOAP over HTTP (it is noted that UPnP uses SOAP over HTTP for device control); REST-based; modification of existing arbitrary\/proprietary IPs (e.g., gaming applications); or development of a new IP specifically for this purpose.","With the a network-independent solution, an independent application vendor can develop and deploy their own group formation protocol that is independent of the operator. Alternatively, LTE P2P group formation mechanisms can be network-dependent and\/or RAT-dependent, involving the use of RRC (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331), although this can impose challenges for providing support for inter-operator LTE P2P.","SESSION CONTINUITY: The present innovation further addresses LTE P2P session continuity by maintaining transparency between a P2P application and the status of the underlying link layer connection. With reference to , for an LTE P2P network , when an LTE P2P client  and a group owner  are within RF proximity of each other, they both use the P2P type-2 EPS bearer network  rather than the P2P type-1 EPS bearer network . With reference to , for a subsequent state of the LTE P2P network depicted at , the LTE P2P link-layer connectivity may break. When the LTE P2P client  and the group owner  are not within RF proximity of each other, they may both use the P2P type 1 EPS bearer network , as shown, thereby maintaining session continuity.","In related aspects, exemplary LTE P2P Session continuity mechanisms may include a DSMIPv6 protocol or a Shim6 protocol. In , a DSMIPv6 high-level call flow  is depicted for Radio Link Failure (RLF) of a P2P direct communication connection. In , a Shim6 high-level call flow  is shown for an RLF of a P2P direct communication connection. In-order delivery during an RLF of a P2P direct communication connection can be difficult to achieve for all types of P2P RATs, such as, for example, WiFi Direct and Bluetooth. For LTE P2P, it can be achievable by using a new Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) sequence number that is mapped to both a P2P type-1 and type-2 EPS bearer, in addition to the separate PDCP sequence number assigned to each P2P type-1 and type-2 EPS bearer individually. With reference to , there is provided a block diagram  of a 3GPP Release 8 PDCP layer, showing the user plane for the EPS bearer. With reference to , there is shown a block diagram  of an exemplary LTE P2P PDCP layer, showing the user plane for P2P-type 1 and 2 EPS bearers.","With reference to , there is depicted a 3GPP Release 8 General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunneling Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U) data structure  for header format. In , a PDCP Packet Data Unit (PDU) data structure  for number extension header is depicted. In one embodiment, mandatory fields may include: version; Protocol Type (PT); Extension Header flag (E); Sequence Number flag (S); N-PDU Number flag (PN); length; and Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (TEID). Optional fields may include: sequence number; N-PDU Number; and next extension header type (e.g., \u20181100 0000\u2019=PDCP PDU number extension header).","The Next Extension Header Type (\u20181100 000\u2019=PDCP PDU Number extension header) may be used between the eNB and PDNGW and may carry the new PDCP sequence number that is mapped to both a P2P type-1 and type-2 EPS bearer so that in-order delivery can be supported. For example, a serving eNB would receive a packet from an originating UE via a P2P type-1 EPS bearer and would decode that packet using the separate 3GPP Release 8 PDCP sequence number for its P2P type-1 EPS bearer. The eNB would then send that packet to the PDNGW in a GTP-U packet with the header (per above) containing the new PDCP sequence number that is mapped to both the originating UE's P2P type-1 and type-2 EPS bearer. When the serving eNB for the terminating UE receives this GTP-U header, it may reuse the new PDCP sequence number that is mapped to both the originating UE's P2P type-1 and type-2 EPS bearer when the serving eNB sends the packet to the terminating UE. However, it may also encode the packet to the terminating UE with the separate 3GPP Release 8 PDCP sequence number for the terminating UE's P2P type-1 EPS bearer.","With regard to an end-to-end call flow, LTE P2P initial bearer setup between two UEs can encompass a range of situations. In related aspects, the P2P group initial status can be one of the following: neither UE belongs to a group; terminating UE belongs a group; originating UE belongs to a group; or both UEs belong to a group. In further related aspects, UE functionality may include: both UEs supporting LTE and LTE P2P concurrent operation; one UE supporting LTE P2P operation but not LTE operation; and both UEs supporting only LTE P2P operation but not LTE operation. In yet further related aspects, with respect to the eNB, the UEs may be in same eNB, or the UEs may be in different eNBs. In still further related aspects, both UEs may be registered to a same Mobility Management Entity (MME), or the UEs may be registered to different MMEs. In further related aspects, with respect to Private Land Mobile Network (PLMN), the UEs may be in same PLMN, or the UEs may be in different PLMNs. In yet further related aspects, with respect to selection of the terminating UE, this may be done via manual selection by user, or by automatic selection (e.g., RF proximity based).","In , a scenario is depicted for UEs ,  in the same eNB  and with an optimized EPS network architecture  for LTE P2P with an EPC , PDNGW  co-located with the eNB . Also depicted are a PDNGW  outside of the EPC  and an Internet . A HA  can be included in the PDNGW  if required. Also shown are both the P2P type-2 bearer and the P2P type-1 bearer, which together allow for session continuity of the UEs , , even when not in RF proximity of each other. In , a scenario is depicted for inter-operator and non-optimized EPS architecture  for LTE P2P.","LTE P2P bearer setup can employ criteria for a design that works for all cases (inter-operator, UEs in same eNB) and coordinates at the IP layer through REST-based signaling (i.e., HTTP signaling). Alternatively, SIP signaling may be used. Alternatively, a simpler case can be optimized using coordination through RRC signaling (defined in 3GPP TS 36.331) for UEs in the same eNB.","In , there is shown an exemplary end-to-end call flow scenario  for LTE P2P bearer setup wherein the P2P group status is that UEs do not belong to a group at time of P2P direct communication establishment. With respect to UE functionality, both UEs support LTE and LTE P2P concurrent operation. Selection of terminating UE may be RF proximity based. A DSMIPv6 protocol with the HA at the PDNGW can be implemented.","It should be appreciated with a benefit of the present disclosure is that MME-1 and MME-2, SGW-1 and SGW-2, PDNGW-1 and PDNGW-2 may be the same without necessarily changing the call flow. In addition, the P2P type-2 EPS bearer establishment may be coordinated using PHY\/MAC design. Further, in step-2 of flow scenario , it is assumed for clarity that a pre-established set of resources has been reserved for LTE P2P common to all eNBs, operators. If not, additional information about frequency band, etc., may be signaled.","Referring to , a multiple access wireless communication system according to one aspect is illustrated. An access point (AP)  includes multiple antenna groups, one including  and , another including  and , and an additional including  and . In , only two antennas are shown for each antenna group, however, more or fewer antennas may be utilized for each antenna group. A UE or access terminal (AT)  is in communication with antennas  and , where antennas  and  transmit information to AT  over forward link  and receive information from AT  over reverse link . AT  is in communication with antennas  and , where antennas  and  transmit information to AT  over forward link  and receive information from AT  over reverse link . In a FDD system, communication links , ,  and  may use different frequencies for communication. For example, forward link  may use a different frequency then that used by reverse link .","Each group of antennas and\/or the area in which they are designed to communicate is often referred to as a sector of the AP . In the aspect, antenna groups each are designed to communicate to ATs  and  in a sector of the areas covered by AP .","In communication over forward links  and , the transmitting antennas of AP  utilize beam forming in order to improve the signal-to-noise ratio of forward links for the different ATs  and . Also, an AP using beam forming to transmit to ATs scattered randomly through its coverage causes less interference to ATs in neighboring cells than an AP transmitting through a single antenna to all of its ATs.","An AP  may be a fixed station used for communicating with the terminals and may also be referred to as an AP, a Node B, or some other terminology.","A MIMO system employs multiple (N) transmit antennas and multiple (N) receive antennas for data transmission. A MIMO channel formed by the Ntransmit and Nreceive antennas may be decomposed into Nindependent channels, which are also referred to as spatial channels, where N\u2266min{N, N}. Each of the Nindependent channels corresponds to a dimension. The MIMO system may provide improved performance (e.g., higher throughput and\/or greater reliability) if the additional dimensionalities created by the multiple transmit and receive antennas are utilized.","A MIMO system may support TDD and FDD. In a TDD system, the forward and reverse link transmissions are on the same frequency region so that the reciprocity principle allows the estimation of the forward link channel from the reverse link channel. This enables the AP to extract transmit beam-forming gain on the forward link when multiple antennas are available at the AP.","The teachings herein may be incorporated into a node (e.g., a device) employing various components for communicating with at least one other node.  depicts several sample components that may be employed to facilitate communication between nodes. Specifically,  illustrates a wireless device  (e.g., an AP) and a wireless device  (e.g., a UE or AT) of a MIMO system . At the device , traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source  to a transmit (\u201cTX\u201d) data processor .","In some aspects, each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. The TX data processor  formats, codes, and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.","The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated (i.e., symbol mapped) based on a particular modulation scheme (e.g., BPSK, QSPK, M-PSK, or M-QAM) selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate, coding, and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by a processor . A data memory  may store program code, data, and other information used by the processor  or other components of the device .","The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor , which may further process the modulation symbols (e.g., for OFDM). The TX MIMO processor  then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransceivers (\u201cXCVR\u201d) through that each has a transmitter (TMTR) and receiver (RCVR). In some aspects, the TX MIMO processor  applies beam-forming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.","Each transceiver -receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals, and further conditions (e.g., amplifies, filters, and upconverts) the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transceivers through are then transmitted from Nantennas through , respectively.","At the device , the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna -is provided to a respective transceiver (\u201cXCVR\u201d) through . Each transceiver -conditions (e.g., filters, amplifies, and downconverts) a respective received signal, digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples, and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding \u201creceived\u201d symbol stream.","A receive (\u201cRX\u201d) data processor  then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Ntransceivers -based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N\u201cdetected\u201d symbol streams. The RX data processor  then demodulates, deinterleaves, and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by the RX data processor  is complementary to that performed by the TX MIMO processor  and the TX data processor  at the device .","A processor  periodically determines which pre-coding matrix to use. The processor  formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion. A data memory  may store program code, data, and other information used by the processor  or other components of the device .","The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and\/or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor , which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source , modulated by a modulator , conditioned by the transceivers through , and transmitted back to the device .","At the device , the modulated signals from the device  are received by the antennas -, conditioned by the transceivers -, demodulated by a demodulator (\u201cDEMOD\u201d) , and processed by a RX data processor  to extract the reverse link message transmitted by the device . The processor  then determines which pre-coding matrix to use for determining the beam-forming weights then processes the extracted message.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["2790","2730","2710","2750","2792","2770","2750","2710","2710","2750","2790","2730","2792","2770"]},"With reference to , there is illustrated is a system  for P2P networking facilitated by a WWAN. For example, the system  can reside at least partially at a UE. It is to be appreciated that the system  is represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a computing platform, processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). The system  may include a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction.","For instance, the logical grouping  can include an electrical component for transmitting from an originating UE a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance to a discovery server via a serving node over an air-interface channel (block ). The logical grouping  can include an electrical component for receiving scoped information from the discovery server for participating in a P2P communication session (block ). The logical grouping  can include an electrical component for establishing the P2P communication session with at least one terminating UE based at least in part on the received scoped information (block ). Additionally, the system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components -. While shown as being external to the memory , it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components - can exist within the memory .","With reference to , illustrated is a system  for P2P networking facilitated by a WWAN. For example, system  can reside at least partially within a network entity (e.g., an eNB). It is to be appreciated that the system  may be represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a computing platform, processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). The system  may include a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction.","For example, the logical grouping  can include an electrical component for receiving from an originating UE a request for P2P service discovery and group formation assistance via a serving node over an air-interface channel (block ). The logical grouping  can include an electrical component for determining a scoped subset of a plurality of UEs that are appropriate for P2P service discovery (block ). Moreover, the logical grouping  can include an electrical component for transmitting information of the scoped subset of the plurality of UEs (block ). Additionally, the system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components -. While shown as being external to the memory , it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components - can exist within the memory .","Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general-purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","In one or more exemplary designs, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general-purpose or special-purpose computer, or a general-purpose or special-purpose processor. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or non-transitory wireless technologies, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or the non-transitory wireless technologies are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus, the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 29"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
