---
title: Extraction and classification of user generated content
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for a content handler that automatically detects actionable user generated content. The content handler retrieves a text block from a network site and processes the text block for generating a score, wherein the score is a value between a predefined range of values. The content handler may also determine that a content of the text block expresses an actionable user concern when the score exceeds a threshold value, wherein the actionable user concern is capable of being addressed by a customer service agent. Moreover, the content handler may store, in a memory accessible to a representation of the text block in a queue when the text block has the content that expresses the actionable user concern and grant access to the queue for generating a message for a user associated with the text block.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009256&OS=09009256&RS=09009256
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09009256
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111229
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The internet allows network sites to host large bodies of content generated by many users. This body of content is continuously growing. Users may discuss a variety of topics as they contribute to the body of content.","The present disclosure relates to providing a way for customer service agents to address customer concerns that are expressed in social media sites, blogs, or any other network site that includes user generated content. It may be the case that a user complains about the operation of an online merchant by posting text on a network site. A user may be an actual customer, a potential customer, a product critic or any other individual. In some instances, customer complaints are not actionable. That is to say, a customer service agent of the merchant is unable to address a customer concern. For example, a customer service agent might find it too difficult to address a customer concern regarding a general unhappiness towards the operation of the online merchant. However, some customer posts express customer concerns that are actionable or otherwise addressable by a customer service agent. For example, a customer who complains about a specific, recent issue regarding the operation of the online merchant may be something that a customer service agent can readily address. Various embodiments of the present disclosure discuss retrieving user generated content from one or more network sites. Moreover, retrieved user generated content may be classified according to whether the user generated content is actionable or not actionable. Actionable items are presented to a customer service agent for addressing the concern of a customer. In the following discussion, a general description of the system and its components is provided, followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.","With reference to , shown is a networked environment  according to various embodiments. The networked environment  includes one or more computing devices  in communication with one or more clients  by way of a network . Additionally, one or more network site computing devices  are also in data communication with one or more computing device  by way of a network . The network  includes, for example, the Internet, intranets, extranets, wide area networks (WANs), local area networks (LANs), wired networks, wireless networks, or other suitable networks, etc., or any combination of two or more such networks.","The computing device  may comprise, for example, a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively, a plurality of computing devices  may be employed that are arranged, for example, in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example, a plurality of computing devices  together may comprise a cloud computing resource, a grid computing resource, and\/or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices  may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience, the computing device  is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular, it is understood that a plurality of computing devices  may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.","Various applications and\/or other functionality may be executed in the computing device  according to various embodiments. Also, various data is stored in a data store  that is accessible to the computing device . The data store  may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store , for example, is associated with the operation of the various applications and\/or functional entities described below.","The components executed on the computing device , for example, include a content handler , the customer relationship management (CRM) system , and other applications, services, processes, systems, engines, or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The content handler  is executed to identify and retrieve content from one or more network sites, classify the extracted content and facilitate a response to customer issues expressed in the content. Specifically, the content handler  is configured to identify any blocks of text that have been authored or posted by a particular customer, such as a customer. Customers may express any customer concern as user generated content in a network site. A network site, for example may be a social media site, microblog, blog, user review, online forum, or any site that includes user generated content.","The content handler  includes a text block retriever  for retrieving text blocks  from network sites. Text blocks  may be a set of text authored by a particular customer who posts on the network site. Also, the content handler  includes a text classifier  for determining whether retrieved text blocks  are actionable or unactionable. For example, the text classifier  determines whether the content of a text block  expresses an actionable customer concern or issue such that the concern or issue may be addressed by customer service agents. The content handler  may include one or more text classifiers . The content handler  further includes a response engine  for managing any text block  that has been flagged as \u201cactionable.\u201d","The CRM system  provides a platform for allowing customer agents to manage customer issues. For example, customer service agents may be grouped by customer issue, such that a group of customer service agents are responsible for a particular customer issue. The CRM system  allows a group of customer service agents to gain access to customer issue data for taking remedial action to resolve a particular customer issue.","The data stored in the data store  includes, for example, a text block status , one or more queues , a text block storage , a text block structure , training data , and potentially other data. The text block status  includes any information regarding a retrieved text block  such as the time of retrieval, an identification of the text block , a link to the network page of the network site of where the text block  originated, a user identifier associated with the text block , or any other information relating to the extraction or retrieval of the text block .","The queue  records text blocks  that have been flagged as \u201cactionable.\u201d In one embodiment, the queue  is managed by the CRM system  for granting customer service agents access to text blocks  stored in the queue . Furthermore, the CRM system  may serialize the items in the queue  for creating a contact list for customer service agents. The text block storage  stores text blocks . For example, the raw text of text blocks may be stored in text block storage . Alternatively, encrypted or encoded text blocks  may be stored in the text block storage . In one embodiment, the text block storage  is a temporary storage that provides a buffer functionality for storing recently retrieved text blocks . That is to say, text blocks  are temporarily stored prior to processing and classification of the text block .","The text block structure  stores information about how retrieved text blocks  relate to one another. In one embodiment, the text block structure  facilitates organizing retrieved text blocks  in a tree structure. Data store  further includes training data . Training data  reflects information generated from use of the text classifier . For example, the knowledge base that a text classifier  builds over the course of use may be encoded as training data . For example, scored training text blocks  and feedback  may be used to build the knowledge base to facilitate training the text classifier . Scored training text blocks  may be sample text blocks with a corresponding predetermined score. For example, scored training text blocks  may be a plurality of text blocks that have been deemed actionable by a customer service agent. Feedback  may be information used to correct a previously classified text block . For example, if the text classifier  inaccurately classifies a text block  as actionable, a customer service agent may submit feedback  to reclassify the particular text block  to reduce the risk of repeating a similar misclassification.","The client  is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client  may comprise, for example, a processor-based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant, a cellular telephone, set-top box, music players, web pads, tablet computer systems, game consoles, or other devices with like capability.","The client  may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser , dedicated applications  and\/or other applications. The browser  may be executed in a client , for example, to access and render network pages, such as web pages, or other network content served up by the computing device  and\/or other servers. Rendered network pages may be presented in a display . The client  may be configured to execute applications beyond browser  and dedicated application , such as, for example, email applications, instant message applications, and\/or other applications.","Clients  may be used by customers accessing network sites for posting user generated content. Clients  may also be used by customer service agents for contacting users, such as customers. Customer service agents may use one or more clients  to send scored training text blocks  and\/or feedback  for training the text classifier .","The network site computing device  may comprise, for example, a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively, a plurality of network site computing devices  may be employed that are arranged, for example, in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example, a plurality of network site computing devices  together may comprise a cloud computing resource, a grid computing resource, and\/or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such network site computing devices  may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience, the network site computing device  is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular, it is understood that a plurality of network site computing devices  may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.","Network site computing devices  operate a plurality of network sites for facilitating the presentation of user generated content. For example, each network site may be operated by one or more network site computing devices . A network site data store  is included in the network site computing device . The network site data store  includes user generated content  and potentially other data.","Next, a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment  is provided. To begin, a customer using a client  may author content and post it to a network site served up by a network site computing device . For example, a customer may post user reviews, customer comments, blog entries or any other user generated content to a network site. Additionally, a customer may send public or private messages for posting on a social media network site. As customers continue generating content, the text contained in a network site is updated with new user generated content. Network site computing devices  operate network sites as customers continue to post user generated content  to various network sites. User generated content, for example, may be opinions, criticism, or an explanation of issues that a customer has regarding the operations of an online merchant. Customers may complain about merchants by posting their experiences with a particular merchant in a blog, social media message, or any other network site","A content handler  executed in a computing device  employs a text block retriever  for retrieving text blocks  from the various network sites. Text blocks  may be individual blog posts, comments, individually addressed messages, private messages, forum messages, microblog posts, or any other textual message authored by a user, such as a customer or a critic. In one embodiment, multiple text blocks  may exist on a single network page. Alternatively, the text of an entire network page associated with a particular network site may be handled as a text block .","A content handler  employs a text block retriever  that is configured to access various network sites for extracting and retrieving text blocks . In one embodiment, the text block retriever  implements a variety of Application Programming Interface (API) function calls to retrieve text blocks . A set of API functions may vary according to network site. In this case, the text block retriever  is configured to employ a different set of API functions for each network site.","In another embodiment, the text block retriever  crawls or otherwise searches content and information of a public network site for identifying and retrieving text blocks . For example, a text block retriever  accesses a forum or a blog network site and identifies text blocks  for retrieval.","Further, in another embodiment, the text block retriever  is configured to access a portion of a social network site to which it has authorized access. For example, an online retailer who operates the text block retriever  may own a social network page as part of a social network site. Hence, the text block retriever  is configured to access and crawl the owned social network page.","Once a text block retriever  retrieves a text block , the text block retriever  may store the retrieved text block  in the text block storage . In one embodiment, the text block storage  is a memory buffer that temporarily stores a text block  until it is classified at some later point in time. In another embodiment, the text block storage  is a long term storage that stores all retrieved text blocks  over a period of time. The text block storage  may store a hash value or any other representation of a retrieved text block  rather than storing the raw text block  itself. In this example, storing a representation of the text block  optimizes text block storage space.","In addition to storing a text block  in a text block storage , the text block retriever  is configured to store a text block status  associated with each text block . The text block status  may assist the text block retriever  in determining when a text block  was last retrieved. Furthermore, the text block status  may include user identification information for matching a particular text block  to its respective authoring customer.","Upon retrieval of a text block , the text block retriever  may also be configured to store a text block structure  corresponding to each retrieved text block . A text block structure  indicates the relationship between text blocks  of a particular network site. In one embodiment, the text block structure  reflects a tree or star relationship between the various text blocks of a particular network site. The information represented by the text block structure  assists the text block retriever  in determining when a particular text block  included in a network site has been retrieved. Furthermore, storing the text block structure  assists the text block retriever  by determining which text blocks  have been retrieved in the past.","Using the combination of the text block structure  and the text block status  ensures that all text blocks  from a particular network site have been retrieved at least once. Moreover, the text block retriever  is configured to manage the frequency it accesses a particular text block  based on the text block status  and text block structure . This protects against excessive retrieval of the same text block  which may burden the resources of the text block retriever . Thus, the text block retriever  can effectively curate and manage data posted in a particular network site as one or more customers may continuously update user content.","One or more text classifiers  are responsible for categorizing a particular text block  into one of two buckets. Specifically, a text classifier  determines whether the text block  is \u201cactionable\u201d or \u201cunactionable.\u201d Text blocks  may be treated as units of user content. For example, a customer comment within a blog post, comment section, forum message, or any other free text field that facilitates the generation of customer commentary may be captured as a text block . Furthermore, a text block  associated with a particular customer includes content that reflects opinions or thoughts of the customer. Accordingly, the content of a text block  may express a customer concern that is \u201cactionable.\u201d In various embodiments where multiple text classifiers  are employed, each text classifier  is individually configured, where each individual configuration embodies a unique definition of what constitutes an \u201cactionable\u201d customer concern.","For example, an actionable customer concern may be any issue deemed important to a customer service agent. A user may be a customer who expresses a customer concern within a text block  and a customer service agent may desire to respond to the concern. The desire to respond to the customer deems a particular text block  as actionable. Accordingly, there may be various definitions of what constitutes an \u201cactionable\u201d customer concern where each definition is defined by one or more customer service agents. Customer service agents define \u201cactionable\u201d by training a text classifier , which is discussed in greater detail below.","The text classifier  receives a text block input and in response, generates a score that correlates to the degree that a text block is actionable. In one embodiment, the text classifier  generates a score that is within a predefined range. Accordingly, scores closer to one extreme are deemed actionable while scores at the opposite extreme are deemed unactionable. For example, a score may be any value within a range of 0 to 1. Scores that are closer to 1 are deemed actionable. Furthermore, a threshold value may be assigned to the classifier for categorizing a text block input into a binary result. That is to say, a binary result is derived from the score based on whether a score is above or below a threshold value. Hence, the threshold value is set to some value in between the predefined range. In one embodiment, scores may be close to the threshold value, which indicates that classification of a text block  may be difficult. In this case, text blocks  that are assigned scores that are close to a threshold value are flagged and presented to a customer service agent for review. Moreover, a customer service agent may manually select a score to reclassify the text block . This effectively provides feedback  to the text classifier  to build the knowledge base of the text classifier.","In one embodiment, text classifiers  are trained by an administrator such as a customer service agent for configuring the text classifier  to be more likely to produce accurate results. In one embodiment, feedback  may be fed into a text classifier  where each feedback  may correct or confirm a previously classified text block . In another embodiment, scored training text blocks  are used to train the text classifier . For example, a customer service agent may input a text block  into a text classifier  and then instruct the text classifier  that the text block input is either expected to be \u201cactionable\u201d or \u201cunactionable.\u201d Over the time of training, a text classifier  builds its knowledge base and stores the knowledge base as training data . The text classifier  learns what text blocks  are \u201cactionable\u201d or \u201cunactionable\u201d and processes subsequent text blocks  accordingly.","In various embodiments, multiple text classifiers  are employed such that each text classifier is trained according to a particular customer issue. For example, in a set of employed text classifiers , a first text classifier  may be trained to determine whether a particular text block  expresses an actionable product shipment issue and a second text classifier  may be trained to determine whether a particular text block  expresses an actionable product return issue.","A response engine  is used for bridging the gap between a customer service agent and a customer who generated user content on a network page, where the user content expresses an actionable customer concern. Specifically, after a text classifier  classifies a particular text block  as \u201cactionable\u201d the response engine  updates a queue  for managing text blocks  that are classified as actionable. In one embodiment, the queue  includes a plurality of line items where each line item refers to a different text block that has been classified as actionable.","In various embodiments, the response engine  provides an interface between the content handler  and the CRM system . In this case, classified text blocks that are outputted from the text classifier  are fed into the CRM system  for allowing customer service agents access to text blocks  that are classified as actionable.","In one example, the response engine  assigns a name, identifier, hash value, or any representation of a text block  that is classified as actionable. For each line item in the queue , the response engine  may include this representation of a text block .","Additionally, for each line item in the queue , a link to the text block  to facilitate retrieval from the original source of the text block  may be included. As text blocks  are retrieved from various network sites, a link to the network site that originated the text block  may be useful to customer service agents for obtaining a context from which the text block  was authored. Also, a user identifier that is associated with the text block  may be included for each line item of the queue . This information ties the text block  to a customer who originally expressed a concern. Thus, the actionable items in a queue  may be serialized and presented as a contact list that is provided to a customer service agent. In this case, the contact list includes contact information or any other user identifier information for the customer who posted the content of an actionable text block.","In addition to managing the queue  of actionable text blocks , the response engine may further  grant customer service agents access to the queue  for allowing the customer service agents to respond to the customer who authored an actionable text block . Alternatively, the response engine  interfaces with a CRM system  to provide customer service agents access to the queue, where the CRM system  manages the queue . For example, one line item of the queue  may provide the raw text of an actionable text block , a link to a network page within the network site that includes the actionable text block , a user identifier that is associated with the actionable text block , or any other information. The customer service agent can use line items in the queue  to generate a response to customers who post customer concerns on network sites. For example, a customer service agent may send an electronic message, such as an email, to such customers. Specifically, the text block retriever  may be configured to identify and retrieve user identifiers such as email addresses, phone numbers, or any other contact information that is associated with a particular text block . Additionally, customer service agents may use a client  to post responses on the network site in response to a customer concern.","Referring next to , shown is an example of a network site managed by a network site computing device  () in the networked environment  of . Specifically,  is an example of a network page  managed by a network site. A network site computing device  is configured to host a network site for facilitating the online posting of user generated data.","Customers may access a network site and post user generated content which is presented within a network page . In the example of , the network site is a blog site that allows a customer to post a blog entry . The blog entry is user generated content  () that may or may not express an actionable customer concern. In the exemplary network page , a comments section  is included for allowing customers to respond to the blog entry . Furthermore, in this example, comments -are generated by customers. Each of the comments may include a corresponding user identifier , ,  as well as a corresponding date of post , , .","A content handler  () may be used for extracting information from various network sites to identify any customer concern that may be deemed actionable. In this case, the content handler  accesses the network page  of a network site that facilitates the presentation of user generated content . The content handler  identifies and retrieves text blocks  () and classifies each text block  to determine if each text block  is actionable. The content handler  further updates a queue  () for allowing customer service agents to respond to any customer concerns expressed in the user generated content of the network page .","First, the content handler  employs a text block retriever  () to retrieve text blocks  contained within the network page . In this example, the text block retriever  determines that the blog entry is a text block . Additionally, the text block retriever  determines that the comments -are each text blocks . Thus, in this example, the text block retriever  identifies four distinct text blocks . For identifying text blocks , a text block retriever  may analyze the source code of a network page to determine a formatting of each text block . Alternatively, the text block retriever  may use a set of API functions to identify text blocks  contained within the network page .","After the text block retriever  determines that the blog entry and comments -are four text blocks, the text block retriever  retrieves the text blocks  by storing the text in a text block storage  (). The storage of these text blocks  may be in a raw form or some processed form. In one embodiment, the text block retriever  identifies an email address associated with the author of the blog entry and retrieves the email address. In this case, an email address may exist as text presented in the network page . Furthermore, this email address is associated with the text block that corresponds to the blog entry . This allows customer service agents to easily obtain the contact information of the author of the blog entry , if needed.","Next, the content handler  employs a text classifier  () to classify each of the four retrieved text blocks . With regard to the text block  that corresponds to the blog entry , the text classifier  may determine that the content within the blog entry expresses a customer concern. To make this determination, the text classifier  uses the text within the text block  as well as any training data  () that has been used to configure the text classifier . In this example, a text classifier  has been trained by customer service agents to deem actionable any content that expresses a recent customer issue that can be easily addressed.","In this example, the blog entry indicates that a customer has uncovered a mistake made by the online retailor www.buylotsofthings.com. Specifically, the online retailor is selling a product for $105 rather than $1050. It is in the interest of the online retailor to take remedial action to prevent subsequent customers from exploiting this mistake. Generally, a customer service agent may deem this as content that expresses an actionable customer concern. Thus, a trained text classifier  may generate a score that exceeds a predefined threshold and determine that the content of the blog entry expresses an actionable customer concern. This is because the customer concern expressed in the blog entry is a recent customer issue that can be easily addressed.","The first comment may also be analyzed by the text classifier  for determining whether the first comment expresses an actionable customer concern. Here, the first comment indicates that a customer has uncovered a mistake made by the online retailor. However, this mistake was made a year ago. While this comment expresses a somewhat relevant customer concern, a customer service agent might generally not deem this as actionable. Accordingly, text classifier  trained by a customer service agent may assign a score that is less than the score associated with the blog entry . Furthermore, this score may fall below a threshold value such that the text classifier  classifies the first comment as unactionable. Particularly, this customer issue expressed in the first comment is not recent such that a customer service agent would deem this as actionable.","The second comment indicates that a customer has a recent issue with the online retailor in the form of a product shipping concern. A text classifier  trained by a customer service agent may assign a high score that exceeds a threshold value for classifying this user generated content as an actionable item.","The third comment indicates that a customer is generally upset with the online retailor. Based on the training that a text classifier  has received, this comment may not be classified as an actionable customer concern because this issue cannot be easily addressed.","If the text classifier  has classified the blog entry and the second comment as actionable, then the content handler  may employ a response engine  () to update a queue  for itemizing each actionable text block  for review by a customer service agent. When placing the second item in the queue , for example, a user identifier , a date of post , and a link to the network page  may be included in the queue . This may assist a customer service agent in identifying the customer who posted the second comment and addressing his or her issue. The queue  may managed by the CRM system  for providing customer service agents access to the outputs of the text classifier .","Turning now to , shown is a drawing of an example of an operation of a content handler  executed in a computing device  in the networked environment  of . The content handler  may be configured to store text block structure  () with regard to retrieved text blocks  (). The text block structure  may be stored with respect to a network page. Alternatively, text blocks  of at least a portion of the network site may be retrieved and stored along with an associated text block structure .","Using the example in , a content handler  retrieves a blog entry and comments -as text block inputs for a text classifier  (). The content handler  may be configured to store a text block structure  with each of the four text blocks  retrieved from the network page  (). For example,  depicts a text block structure  of a tree structure. Here, the blog entry is on the upper tier while comments -, made in response to the blog entry , are depicted as lower tiers or branches of the blog entry . A tree structure may characterize the text block structure  of a single network page or it may characterize the plurality of text blocks  within an entire network site.","In one embodiment, the content handler  stores retrieved text blocks  as a tree structure regardless of the classification of the text block . In this embodiment, the stored text block structure  associated with each text block  allows the content handler  to determine whether a network site includes text blocks  that have not been retrieved. For example, if there is a change in the text block structure  resulting from a subsequent visit of a network site, then the content handler  expects that unretrieved text blocks may be present.","Accordingly, the content handler  matches the tree structure generated from a prior visit of a network site to the tree structure of a current access of the same network site. Branches of the tree structure that have not changed are marked with a marker. This marker is stored along with the text block structure  of a particular network page or network site.","In various embodiments, the text classifier  is configured to access a text block structure  in order to generate a classification result. Text block structure  may indicate that a particular text block  is part of a thread of text blocks arranged in a chronological or tree structure. The text classifier  may refer to the structure of a particular text block to obtain a context. For example, when handling the second comment , the text classifier  may access the text block structure  associated with the second comment . Specifically, the text block structure  associated with the second comment indicates that the second comment originated from the blog entry . Accordingly, the text classifier  can use a combination of the blog entry and the second comment to classify the second comment ","For example, the second comment states \u201cI had shipping problems today when I purchased another product from this site.\u201d The text of the second comment alone is unclear as to what is \u201cthis site.\u201d However, when read in the context of the blog entry , a text classifier  can associate the second comment to the site www.buylotsofthings.com. Thus, when the text block structure  indicates a threading of multiple text blocks, the text classifier  can account for context when generating a classification of a text block .","In an alternative embodiment, one or more text classifiers  are configured to ignore or otherwise under prioritize the classification of text blocks . For example, the blog entry expresses a customer concern relating to a mistake made by an online merchant such that the mistake may be exploited by customers. If this mistake is remedied, then subsequent comments made in response to the customer issue expressed in the main blog entry may be ignored or under prioritized. Thus, in one embodiment, a customer service agent may indicate a resolute to a particular customer issue expressed in one or more text blocks. This fact may be stored as metadata corresponding to any implicated text blocks. Metadata, for example, may be any text block structure  or text block status  associated with a text block . Thus, the text classifier  may consult this metadata when generating a classification result. If the text classifier  is configured to ignore text blocks  that have been flagged as resolved, then the classification process is skipped. Alternatively, if the text classifier  is configured to under prioritize resolved text blocks , then the text classifier  may apply a weight to the score that effectively increases the threshold for achieving an \u201cactionable\u201d classification.","Moving on to , shown is an example of an operation of a text classifier  executed in a computing device  () in the networked environment  of . Specifically,  represents one embodiment of a text classifier  that can be trained by a customer service agent.","A content handler  () employs a text classifier  to classify an inputted text block . The text classifier  performs a series of calculations to generate and assign a score  to an inputted text block . In one embodiment, the score  is a value within a range of values such as, for example, a rational number between 0 and 1. Furthermore, a binary result may be derived from the score such that scores that are greater than or equal to a threshold  are one binary result while scores below the threshold  are the other binary result. In addition to receiving an input of a text block , the text classifier  may also receive feedback  or scored training text blocks  for purposes of training the text classifier .","In one embodiment, feedback  may be used by customer service agents for feeding back any text blocks  that they have were wrongly classified. Feedback  reduces the risk that a text classifier  will repeat a similar misclassification on a subsequent attempt. Customer service agents may look through a list of classified text blocks  to either confirm or correct the classification. By correcting or confirming a classification, the text classifier builds a knowledge base and encodes it as training data  () for subsequent use in the field.","In one embodiment, the generation of feedback  may be facilitated by a CRM system  (). In this case, customer service agents may submit feedback  through a user interface provided by the CRM system . The CRM system  sends the feedback  to the text classifier  for training. Additionally feedback  may be sent to the text classifier  to provide continuous training while the text classifier  is deployed and online.","In another embodiment, a scored training text block  may be transmitted to the text classifier  by an administrator such as a customer service agent using a client  (). In one embodiment, the scored training text block  comprises a sample text block and a corresponding expected score. For example, a customer service agent may input sample text blocks that the customer service agent deems actionable. Thus, this input comprises a sample text block along with an expected score that corresponds to an \u201cactionable\u201d binary result. In the example above, this score equals to the value of 1. Thus, each scored training text block  may include text similar to that of the blog entry and the second comment of . Additionally, the scored training text blocks  may include content that expresses an unactionable customer concern. To this end, the text classifier  can build a knowledge base of what content is actionable and what content is unactionable based on examples provided by the scored training text blocks . This knowledge base is encoded as training data . Therefore, when the text classifier  processes text blocks  in field use, the text classifier  leverages the received training. Thus, scored training text blocks  are used for training a text classifier  while the text classifier is offline prior to deployment.","Ultimately, the functionality of the text classifier  is dependent on the feedback  or scored training text blocks  for training the text classifier . For example, a customer service agent who desires that actionable issues constitute offensive and\/or obscene language can train a text classifier  accordingly. In this example, a customer service agent employing the content handler  may wish to configure the content handler  to identify any offensive and\/or obscene content from a network site. A text classifier  can receive scored training text blocks  expressing offensive and\/or obscene content to build training data  accordingly.","In one embodiment, a plurality of text classifiers  are employed where each text classifier  has been trained with a different definition of what constitutes \u201cactionable\u201d and \u201cunactionable.\u201d Thus, each text classifier  will have its own corresponding training data . In other embodiments, each text classifier  may utilize similar corresponding training data that is compiled by one or more of the text classifiers.","In one embodiment, where a set of text classifiers  are employed, each text classifier , among the set of text classifiers , is dedicated to a particular customer issue. In one example, each customer issue is associated with an issue code that is recognized by the CRM system  (). In this case each text classifier  is trained according to a particular customer issue. Moreover, the set of text classifiers  may be configured to execute the classification process in parallel such that a particular text block  is inputted into each of the text classifiers  in parallel. For each text classifier , a corresponding score is generated for the inputted text block .","In another embodiment, each text classifier  is routed to a corresponding queue . To this end, each text classifier  and queue  pair is dedicated to a customer issue associated with a corresponding issue code. The CRM system  may facilitate access to each queue , where a group of customer service agents are responsible for customers issues of a like issue code.","In yet another embodiment, multiple text classifiers  are employed where each text classifier  has been trained to classify a text block  according to a unique, respective customer issue. The output of each of the text classifiers are routed to one or more customer service agents who are responsible for a particular customer issue. For example, if one of the text classifiers  has been trained to determine whether a text block  expresses an actionable customer issue that is a product shipping issue, then the output of this text classifier may be routed to customer service agents who are responsible for product shipping issues.","In another embodiment, the threshold  is configurable. In this case, if it is noted that a particular text classifier  is too liberal in classifying a text block  as actionable, then the threshold can be modified to heighten the standard for classifying a text block  as actionable. That is to say, a higher score will be needed to populate the queue  () of actionable text blocks . Additionally, if the text classifier  is producing inaccurate results, more training by a customer service agent may be needed.","Referring next to , shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the content handler  according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the content handler  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device  () according to one or more embodiments.","Text blocks  () within various network sites are identified, retrieved and stored in a data store  (). Specifically, the content handler  employs a text block retriever  () for text block retrieval. The content handler  may also track the status of the text block . For example, the content handler  may store a time of retrieval and\/or a user identifier associated with a retrieved text block . The content handler  may store this as text block status  () for assisting the content handler  in determining whether to or when to access the text block  again for a subsequent retrieval. For example, the content handler  may be configured to periodically retrieve a particular text block  to ensure that the particular text block  is up-to-date as user generated content may be updated and\/or revised with new content. Thus, a text block  that was recently retrieved may not need to be retrieved again until a later point in time. Tracking a retrieved text block  may also comprise storing a text block structure  () for determining whether a text block , on a subsequent visit to the network site by the content handler , has been retrieved in the past.","Beginning with box , the content handler  retrieves a stored text block from the text block  in storage. Next, in block , the content handler  generates a score for the text block . The content handler  may employ an algorithm for processing function, such as, for example, a text classifier  () to generate and assign a score to the text block . In box , the content handler  determines whether the score exceeds a threshold. The score is used for assigning a binary result to the text block . Whether the score falls above or below the threshold determines the binary result. Furthermore, the binary result signifies whether content expressed in the text block  is an actionable customer concern. Scores that fall below the threshold are assigned a binary result that signifies that the content of the text block  does not express an actionable customer concern. In box , when the assigned score of a text block  falls below a threshold value, the text block is marked as unactionable.","However, as seen in box , if the score is greater than or equal to the threshold, the text block  is marked as actionable. Then, in box , the content handler associates the actionable text block  with a queue of actionable items for consideration by a customer service agent. In one embodiment, the content handler  maintains a queue  () with a representation of the text block . That is to say, the text block  is placed in a queue  as a line item where the line item includes a representation that represents the particular text block . Furthermore, the content handler  grants access to the queue  for facilitating generating a response message to the customer associated with the text block. A content handler  employs a response engine  () for managing the queue  to allow customer service agents to address customer concerns that have been classified as actionable. In an alternative embodiment, the queue  is a list of text blocks  that may be filtered to present only actionable text block items. The list may be filtered based on whether a text block  is marked as actionable or unactionable. In other embodiments, the queue of actionable items is managed by a CRM system  () that grants customer service agents access to the outputs of the text classifier .","With reference to , shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device  according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device  includes at least one processor circuit, for example, having a processor  and a memory , both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end, the computing device  may comprise, for example, at least one server computer or like device. The local interface  may comprise, for example, a data bus with an accompanying address\/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.","Stored in the memory  are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular, stored in the memory  and executable by the processor  are the content handler , the customer relationship management (CRM) system  and potentially other applications. The content handler  may include a text block retriever , a text classifier , and a response engine . Also stored in the memory  may be a data store  and other data. In addition, an operating system may be stored in the memory  and executable by the processor .","It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processors  as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software, any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as, for example, C, C++, C#, Objective C, Java, Javascript, Perl, PHP, Visual Basic, Python, Ruby, Delphi, Flash, or other programming languages.","A number of software components are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processor . In this respect, the term \u201cexecutable\u201d means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be, for example, a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and run by the processor , source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and executed by the processor , or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory  to be executed by the processor , etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory  including, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard drive, solid-state drive, USB flash drive, memory card, optical disc such as compact disc (CD) or digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, magnetic tape, or other memory components.","The memory  is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus, the memory  may comprise, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard disk drives, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, memory cards accessed via a memory card reader, floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive, optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive, magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive, and\/or other memory components, or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition, the RAM may comprise, for example, static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM) and other such devices. The ROM may comprise, for example, a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other like memory device.","Also, the processor  may represent multiple processors  and the memory  may represent multiple memories  that operate in parallel processing circuits, respectively. In such a case, the local interface  may be an appropriate network  () that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors , between any processor  and any of the memories , or between any two of the memories , etc. The local interface  may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication, including, for example, performing load balancing. The processor  may be of electrical or of some other available construction.","Although the content handler , the CRM system , and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above, as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software\/general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware, each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include, but are not limited to, discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals, application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates, or other components, etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and, consequently, are not described in detail herein.","The flowchart of  shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the content handler . If embodied in software, each block may represent a module, segment, or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function(s). The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human-readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor  in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code, etc. If embodied in hardware, each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function(s).","Although the flowchart of  shows a specific order of execution, it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example, the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also, two or more blocks shown in succession in  may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further, in some embodiments, one or more of the blocks shown in  may be skipped or omitted. In addition, any number of counters, state variables, warning semaphores, or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein, for purposes of enhanced utility, accounting, performance measurement, or providing troubleshooting aids, etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.","Also, any logic or application described herein, including the content handler  and CRM system , that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non-transitory computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as, for example, a processor  in a computer system or other system. In this sense, the logic may comprise, for example, statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer-readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any medium that can contain, store, or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer-readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as, for example, magnetic, optical, or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer-readable medium would include, but are not limited to, magnetic tapes, magnetic floppy diskettes, magnetic hard drives, memory cards, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, or optical discs. Also, the computer-readable medium may be a random access memory (RAM) including, for example, static random access memory (SRAM) and dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM). In addition, the computer-readable medium may be a read-only memory (ROM), a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other type of memory device.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiment(s) without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
