---
title: Systems and methods for messaging and presence modification
abstract: Electronic message modifying systems and methods are described; system includes a sending terminal, at least one modification parameters database, which contains a plurality of modification parameters, at least one message modification agent and a recipient moiety, including a message user agent, where the modification parameters in the database are updated dynamically; the method includes sending a message, obtaining at least one modification parameter, from a database which contains a plurality of modification parameters, applying to the message at least one modification parameter by a message modification agent and delivering a modified message to the recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450899&OS=09450899&RS=09450899
owner: 
number: 09450899
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20111212
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","REFERENCES","DEFINITIONS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["In general, the present invention pertains to the arts of telecommunications and\/or computer networking. In particular, the invention relates to systems and methods for modifying electronic messages.","It is believed that the pertinent state-of-the-art is represented by: U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,392,289, 6,119,137, 7,010,757, 6,707,890 and 6,529,942; US patent application Ser. No. 2002\/120600, 2008\/077675, 2009\/106650, 2002\/016818, 2002\/0147778, 2005\/159135, 2006\/168642, 2005\/136908, 2006\/041657, 2003\/123104, 2005\/0278651, 2008\/0222254 and 2008\/220798; German patent or patent application Ser. No. 102005042068; European patent application Ser. No. 1646001 as well as by international patent publication Nos. 2010\/023192 and 2007\/014351.","RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047, RFC 4288, RFC 4289 RFC 2049 and RFC 2388; RFC 2778, RFC 2779, RFC 3761, RFC 3762, RFC 3764, RFC 4725, RFC 3920, RFC 3921, RFC 3922, RFC 3923, RFC 4854, RFC 4974, RFC 5122, RFC 3428, RFC 3856, RFC 3857, RFC 3858 and RFC 4825 available from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) at http:\/\/tools.ietf.org\/html\/","E-mail agent (infrastructure). (2010, Sep. 1). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 01:06, Nov. 15, 2010, from http:\/\/en.wikipedia\/org\/w\/index\/php?title=E-mail agen (infrastructure)&oldid=382207110","MIME. (2010, Nov. 5). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 16:45, Nov. 15, 2010, from http:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/w\/index.php?title=MIME&oldid=394975047","XMPP Standards Foundation\u2014XEP-0071 XHTML-IM, http:\/\/xmpp.org\/extensions\/xep-0071.html; XMPP-CORE-01 http:\/\/tools.ietf.org\/html\/draft-saintandre-XMPP-CORE-01; SIP-XMPP-IM-01 http:\/\/tools.ietf.org\/htmldraft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-im-01; SIP-XMPP-CHAT-03 http:\/\/tools.ietf.org\/html\/draft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-chat-03; XMPP-PRESENCE-02 http:\/\/tools.ietf.org\/html\/draft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-presence-02.","OPEN MOBILE ALLIANCE STANDARDS: INSTANT MESSAGING AND PRESENCE SERVICE (IMPS), PRESENCE & AVAILABILITY (PAG) AND MESSAGING (MWG).","Electronic messages or messaging, as referred to herein, should be understood as encompassing any type of telephony or computer network messaging and particularly messages transmitted over cellular networks, Internet and Ethernet. Instances of electronic messages include: the short message service (otherwise known as SMS), electronic mail (E-mail), instant messaging (IM), presence messaging, a personal message or private message (often shortened PM). Components of electronic messages as referred to herein inter alia include: text, alphanumeric data, audio files, video files, graphics and hyperlinks.","Multipurpose internet mail extensions (MIME) as referred to herein in a non-limiting manner include: RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047, RFC 4288, RFC 4289 and RFC 2049. Open Mobile Alliance (OMA)\u2014Instant Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS) Presence & Availability (PAG) and Messaging (MWG), standards' collection, XMPP standards' collection as referred to herein includes: RFC 3920, RFC 3921, RFC 3922, RFC 3923, RFC 4854, RFC 4974, RFC 5122. SIMPLE\u2014Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence standards' collection as referred to herein includes: RFC 3428, RFC 3856, RFC 3857, RFC 3858 and RFC 4825.","Cellular network, as referred to herein, should be understood as encompassing any type of mobile telephony system and particularly cellular networks. Instances of mobile telephony systems inter alia include networks compliant with standards known in the art as: MTS, MTA, MTB, MTC, IMTS, MTD, AMTS, OLT, Autoradiopuhelin, AMPS, TACS, ETACS, NMT, Hicap, Mobitex, DataTAC, GSM, CSD, 3GPP2, CdmaOne (IS-95), D-AMPS (IS-54 and IS-136),CDPD, iDEN, PDC, PHS, GSM\/3GPP, HSCSD, GPRS, EDGE\/EGPRS, 3GPP2, CDMA2000 1xRTT (IS-2000), WiDEN, 3G (IMT-2000), 3GPP, UMTS (UTRAN), WCDMA-FDD, WCDMA-TDD, UTRA-TDD LCR (TD-SCDMA), 3GPP2, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (IS-856), HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA+, LTE (E-UTRA), EV-DO Rev.A, EV-DO Rev.B, Mobile WiMAX (IEEE 802.16e-2005), Flash-OFDM, IEEE 802.20, LTE Advanced and IEEE 802.16.","Whenever the term \u201cserver\u201d, \u201cagent\u201d or \u201cmodule\u201d is used herein, it should be construed as a computer program, including any portion or alternative thereof, e.g. script, command, etc., and\/or a hardware component\/s, including configurations or assemblies thereof,such computer storage media, computer micro-processors and operative memory as well as any combination of the former with the latter.","The term integrated shall be inter alia construed as\u2014operable on the same machine and\/or executed by the same computer program. Depending on the actual deployment of the method, its implementation and topology, integration of agents and\/or integration into modules as well as the terms \u201ctransfer\u201d, \u201crelaying\u201d, \u201ctransmitting\u201d, \u201cforwarding\u201d, \u201cretrieving\u201d, \u201caccessing\u201d, \u201cpushed\u201d or similar refer to any interaction between agents via methods inter alia including: function calling, API (Application Programming Interface), IPC (Inter-Process Communication), RPC (Remote procedure call) and\/or communicating using of any standard or proprietary protocol, such as SMTP, IMAP, MAPI, OMA-IMPS, OMA-PAG, OMA-MWG, SIP\/SIMPLE, XMPP, SMPP.","While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments thereof have been shown merely by way of example in the drawings. The drawings are not necessarily complete and components are not essentially to scale; emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles underlying the present invention.","Illustrative embodiments of the invention are described below. In the interest of clarity, not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual embodiment, numerous implementation-specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers' specific goals, such as compliance with technology-or business-related constraints, which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover, it will be appreciated that the effort of such a development might be complex and time-consuming, but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.","Configuration 1","In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention, reference is now made to , showing electronic messages modifying system . System , as elaborated infra, embodies an exemplary electronic mail (E-mail) modifying system. System  comprises sender moiety  and recipient moiety . Sender moiety  is connected to recipient moiety  through worldwide computer network  (frequently referred to as the internet) and\/or other telecommunication link .","Sender moiety  comprises sending terminal . In the instance of electronic messaging modification, sending terminal  is a message user agent (henceforth MUA), which is frequently referred at the colloquial language as client. MUA  is used for the composition of the electronic message and formatting thereof. Electronic messages produced by MUA  typically comprise a body and header, wherein the former typically includes the content of the message intended for the view by the recipient, whereas the latter contains metadata of the message, necessary for the transmittal and delivery thereof.","The headers of electronic messages produced by MUA  are preferably compliant with multipurpose internet mail extensions (MIME) internet standard collection and particularly with: RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047, RFC 4288, RFC 4289 and RFC 2049. The electronic messages produced by MUA  in a non-limiting manner include: text, alphanumeric data, audio files, video files, graphics and hyperlinks.","Sender moiety  optionally further comprises message submission agent (henceforth MSA) , interactively cooperating with MUA , essentially as known in the art. A new electronic message produced by MUA  is transmitted, either via MSA  or directly, to message pre-modification agent  (henceforth MPMA).","Alternatively or additionally message generator  is implemented ad hoc generating numerous electronic messages in a relatively short period of time. Message generator  is typically employed in corporate setups, for generating numerous messages to multiple addresses, for instance for the clientele, employees personnel or subscribers to an information service, social network, any type of client service and alike. Message generator  is optionally connected to internal sender database , including the addresses and pre-modification parameters of the addressees, as elaborated hereunder. Electronic messages generated by message generator  are typically transmitted directly to MPMA .","MPMA  receives incoming messages from MUA , MSA  or generator  and applies a pre-modification thereto. A pre-modification comprises a modification of the metadata at the header of the messages and\/or bodies thereof. The pre-modification is optionally performed in respect to at least one predefined constituent in the header and\/or body of the message, intended for the recipient, without altering or modifying said constituent per se. An example of a predefined constituent in the header of the message is a field allocated within a HTML structured form, presented for the view by the recipient at the message body, in accordance with RFC 2388. The term intended as referred to herein is to be construed as inter alia intended for the view of the recipient.","The pre-modification is performed by prescribing a conditional action, hereinafter pre-modification parameter, in respect to one or more predefined constituents in the body and\/or header of the message, of the message intended for the recipient. A pre-modification parameter is typically appurtenant to a qualitative characteristic or numerical range of a modification parameter; an exemplary detailed specification of modification parameters is provided below.","The code of the pre-modification parameters can be embedded, irrespectively, in the header and\/or body of the message. The code of the pre-modification parameters embedded in the body of the message is typically hidden from the view of the recipient. The code of the pre-modification parameters is utilized by a message modification agent (hereinafter MMA); MMA include sender, recipient and\/or transfer MMAs, as detailed infra.","MPMA  retrieves pre-modification parameters from internal sender database  and embeds them in the header and\/or body of the message. For instance a pre-modification parameter can be assigned to a TRUE\/FALSE value, respectively indicating the presence\/absence of a particular software program installed on the recipient MUA machine. Thus if a particular software program is installed on the recipient MUA machine, namely the pre-modification parameter is TRUE, a corresponding modification parameter is applied by a MMA and a script launching the particular software program is consequently embedded in a predefined field in the body of the message. Alternatively an IP address, universal resource identifier (URI) and\/or locator (URL) for retrieving the aforementioned launching script can be embedded mutatis mutandis in a predefined field in lieu of embedding the script itself. If a particular software program is not installed on the recipient MUA machine, namely the pre-modification parameter is FALSE, a corresponding modification parameter is applied by MMA and a hyperlink for downloading the particular software program is consequently embedded in the aforementioned or other predefined field in the body of the message.","In another instance a pre-modification parameter can be assigned to a numeric range divided into three numeric sub-ranges, respectively indicating the GUI screen size and\/or resolution on the recipient MUA machine. Thus if GUI screen size is within the first numeric sub-range, a corresponding modification parameter is applied by MMA and merely one third of the textual content of the message is consequently presented, by showing only the first of the three adjacent fields in which the textual content of the message is allocated. If GUI screen size is within the second numeric sub-range, a corresponding modification parameter is applied by MMA and thus the first and the second of three adjacent fields allocated for textual content are consequently presented, showing about two thirds of the textual content of the message, etc.","The predefined fields are typically allocated within a HTML structured message body, in accordance with RFC 2388, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Data\/files necessary for the modification of the message are typically either contained within attachments of the message or obtainable from an IP address, URI and\/or URL.","The pre-modified message, containing pre-modification parameters, is transmitted to message transfer agent  (MTA), together or alongside  the body of the message. From MTA  the message is further transferred through computer network  and\/or other telecommunication link  to recipient moiety .","Configuration 2","Alternatively or additionally sender moiety  of system  comprises sender modification agent (SMMA) . SMMA  receives incoming messages from MUA , MSA , message generator  or MPMA  and applies a modification hereto. The modification of the messages by SMMA  comprises a modification of the message body and\/or the metadata at the header thereof. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is performed by modifying a constituent of the message intended for the recipient.","The modification of the message body is applied to at least one predefined constituent in the body of the message. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is performed in accordance with at least one modification parameter of the recipient, retrieved from database . Database  can be integrated within recipient moiety  or form an independent constituent of system . The modification of the messages by SMMA  is optionally performed in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA .","The modification parameters, utilized for the modification of the messages by SMMA , typically refer to relatively constant and\/or static qualities\/characteristics of the recipient profile and\/or properties of the recipient MUA machine, such as the model\/type of the hardware and\/or configuration thereof on the recipient MUA machine and\/or user profile properties. The reason for preferring modification parameters that refer to relatively constant qualities\/characteristics is that a message transmitted from sender moiety  at a given time can be retrieved by, accessed by and\/or pushed to the recipient indefinite time thereafter. Therefore, the modification of the messages by SMMA , which is actually and unconditionally alters the content of the message and\/or body thereof viewable by the recipient, is preferably performed in accordance with qualities\/characteristics which are less probable to change until the message is actually retrieved by, accessed by and\/or pushed to the recipient.","For instance if the recipient MUA is a Macintosh type of machine or operating system, a UNIX executable script is embedded in a predefined field, typically allocated within a HTML structured message body, in accordance with RFC 2388. In other instance if a profile property indicates a particular gender of the user, gender-specific textual\/graphical information is included in the body and\/or header of the message; alternatively if the gender of the user cannot be established, unisex information is included in the body and\/or header of the message.","In some configurations MPMA  and SMMA  are integrated into unitary module . In other configurations MPMA  is integrated (not shown) with message generator , MUA  and MSA , thereby initially producing messages containing pre-modification parameters. Therefore message generator , MUA  and\/or MSA  is optionally connected to internal sender database  to retrieve pre-modification parameters therefrom. In yet other configurations SMMA  is integrated (not shown) with MTA .","Subsequently, messages pre-modified by MPMA  and\/or modified by SMMA  are transmitted to MTA , together or alongside  the body of the message. From MTA  the message is further transferred through computer network  and\/or other telecommunication link  to recipient moiety . In recipient moiety , messages are received by recipient MTA . The transfer of the messages from MTA  to recipient MTA  is performed essentially in accordance to methods known in the art.","Configuration 3","In some embodiments, system  is configured as an external service provider adapted for the modification of messages sent form moiety  to moiety . A message sent from MTA  and intended for a particular recipient MTA  is directed first to MTA , via internet , as an external service provider. The directing of the message sent from MTA  and intended to a particular recipient MTA  to MTA  instead is preferably achieved by assigning the IP address of MTA  as mail exchanger record (MX record) or a service record (SRV record) on the domain name system (DNS); thereby upon resolving with the DNS the destination IP address of a particular recipient, MTA  receives the IP address\/port of MTA  and consequently directs the message thereto.","Incoming message received by MTA  are forwarded to transfer MMA (TMMA) . TMMA  preferably retrieves an updated set of modifications parameters from database  and subjects the message forwarded from MTA  to a modification. The modification of the messages by TMMA  is performed in accordance with modification parameter of the recipient as retrieved from database . Database  can be integrated within recipient moiety  or form an independent constituent of system . The modification of the messages by TMMA  is optionally performed in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA .","Messages modified by TMMA  are returned to MTA  and thereafter transmitted to recipient MTA , to be thereafter retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs  A-C; the term MUAs as used herein should be construed as any number of MUAs larger than one. In some configurations TMMA  and MTA  are integrated in unitary module , as an external service provider in system .","In some configurations, an incoming message is received by MTA  in recipient moiety  and thereafter forwarded to TMMA  or module , modified therein, and subsequently returned to MTA  in order to be stored in MTA  or MDA , until retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs. In some instances, an incoming message is transmitted by MTA  to TMMA  or module  and\/or returned from TMMA  or module  to MTA  via internet , whereas in other instances the message is transmitted by MTA  to TMMA  or module  and\/or returned from TMMA  or module  to MTA  via a communication link other than internet ; for example by employing a proxy configuration.","Configuration 4","In recipient moiety , messages received by recipient MTA  are further transmitted to recipient MMA (RMMA) . Alternatively or additionally messages received by recipient MTA  are transmitted to and stored by delivery agent  (hereinafter MDA); MDA and MTA is to be construed as including a storage facility, e.g. mailbox, etc. From MDA  messages are retrieved by mail retrieval agent  (hereinafter MRA). Noticeably, the step of retrieving the message from MDA  to MRA  is a pull step; therefore an incoming message is stored by MDA  until it is retrieved by MRA  as a pull step. Messages received by recipient MTA  or retrieved by MRA  from MDA  are further transmitted to RMMA . If the configuration of recipient moiety  does not employ MDA  and\/or MRA , the messages received by recipient MTA  are transmitted to RMMA , typically as a push step.","MRA  and RMMA  are optionally integrated into unitary module , receiving messages pushed from MTA  or retrieved from MDA . In some configurations MDA  is included in unitary module . Preferably the configuration of recipient moiety  employs MRA , entailing the aforementioned pull step, for an effective handling modification of messages for a plurality of recipient MUAs, as will be elaborated infra.","RMMA  and\/or unitary module  is connected to database  which can be integrated within recipient moiety  or form an independent constituent of system . Database  contains modification parameters of the recipient and\/or recipient MUA machine. Modification parameters are typically retrieved from database  by RMMA  and\/or unitary module . Modification parameters are typically retrieved from database  by RMMA  and\/or unitary module  a retrieval of at least one type, of the two types explained immediately hereafter.","Retrieval of the first type is defined as the retrieving, of modification parameters, by RMMA  and\/or unitary module  from database , performed upon the receipt of an incoming message by MTA , RMMA  or unitary module . Retrieval of the second type is defined as the retrieving, of modification parameters, by RMMA  and\/or unitary module  from database , performed upon an access or retrieval of a message by MUAs  A-C from MRA , RMMA , module  or MDA . A retrieval of the first type and\/or second type, optionally, initiates an active dynamical update process of database , as explained below. A retrieval of the first type and\/or second type is mutatis mutandis performed by TMMA .","RMMA  and\/or module  receive the incoming messages and subject the same to at least one modification of three types. A modification of the first type is performed in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA . The modification of the first type is typically performed either upon the receipt of an incoming message by MTA , RMMA  or module  or upon an access or retrieval of a message by MUAs  A-C from MRA , RMMA , module  or MDA .","A modification of the second type is preferably performed upon the receipt of an incoming message by MTA , RMMA  or module . The modification of the second type is typically accompanied by and performed in accordance with modification parameters retrieved from database  a retrieval of the first type. Subsequently to the modification of the second type, the modified message is stored at MRA , RMMA , module  or MDA  until retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs  A-C. In some configurations, an incoming message is forwarded from MTA  to RMMA , modified therein, and subsequently returned to MTA  in order to be stored in MTA  or MDA , until retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs  A-C from MRA , RMMA , module  or MDA .","A modification of the third type is preferably performed upon an access to, retrieval by or pushing of a message to MUAs  A-C from MRA , RMMA , module  or MDA . The modification of the third type is typically accompanied by and performed in accordance with modification parameters retrieved from database  a retrieval of the second type. The modification of the third type implies an availability of more updated modification parameters, since the modification of the third type is effected promptly prior to an access or retrieval of a message by MUAs  A-C. The modification of the third type is preferably implemented in recipient moiety  the configuration of which employs MRA , wherein the modification is performed conjointly with a pull step, during which a message is retrieved from MDA  by MRA  or from MTA  by MUAs  A-C, providing for effectively handling a modification of messages for a plurality of recipient MUAs, as described below.","A modification of the fourth type is typically performed in accordance with modification parameters other than these retrieved from database . Modification parameters for the modification of the fourth type are typically either obtainable from ubiquitous sources, such as the present time and date or extracted from appurtenant attributes of the message itself, for instance the language of the message, the top-level domain (TLD) and\/or the domain name of the recipient's message address, etc.","The modification of the fourth type is applicable to SMMA  and\/or TMMA  and\/or RMMA . The modifications of the first, second and third types are mutatis mutandis applicable to TMMA . The modifications of the second and\/or third types are optionally combined with the modification of the first and\/or fourth types.","Messages modified by RMMA  or module  are further transferred to, retrieved by, accessed by and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs  A-C, essentially in accordance with methods known in the art and preferably in accordance with post office protocol (POP) and\/or internet mail access protocol (IMAP), standardized in RFC 1064, and\/or MAPI and\/or MAPI\/RPC.","Modification Parameters and Dynamic Update Thereof","Modification parameters as referred to herein typically comprise several main categories. The first category of modification parameters pertains to various qualities\/characteristics of recipient MUA device. Qualities\/characteristics are obtained from the device the recipient MUA is running on, exemplarily in accordance to the methods disclosed in US Patent Application Ser. No. 2005\/136908, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD TO QUERY SETTINGS ON A MOBILE DEVICE,\u201d the content of which is incorporated herein by reference, or in accordance with other methods known in the art. Modification parameters of the first category are optionally associated with a physical IP address, IMEI address or MAC address of the device of recipient MUA, such as MUAs  A-C.","Modification parameters pertaining to various qualities\/characteristics of recipient MUA device include but are not limited to the selected from the list below:\n\n","The second category of modification parameters pertains to various qualities\/characteristics of the service provided by the network operator for recipient MUA device. Modification parameters of the second category can be associated with a unique ID such as: logical IP address, IMEI address, MAC address, email address, any other user credentials of the recipient MUA device. Modification parameters of the second category can be automatically resolved, essentially as known in the art, upon a connection of a particular recipient MUA device to a network operated by a specific service provider, such as service provider . Modification parameters of the second category are often identified with a particular client\/user of a service provided by a network operator, such as a connection to internet from a particular Wi-Fi point.","Modification parameters pertaining to various qualities\/characteristics of the service provided by the network operator of the recipient MUA device include but are not limited to selected from the list below:\n\n","The third category of modification parameters pertains to user profile properties. Modification parameters of the third category are typically associated with a particular messaging account and\/or particular person or entity. Thus a messaging account managed on MTA  can be assigned with a set of modification parameters that are characteristic of the properties and\/or preferences of the account addressee. Modification parameters pertaining to user account profile, inter alia include:\n\n","The fourth category of modification parameters pertains to various qualities\/characteristics of external service providers. External service providers in a non-limiting manner include information services, subscription services, social networks and consumer services the recipient is registered to and\/or subscribed to. Modification parameters of the fourth category can be associated with the message address or any other credentials of the recipient, a unique ID of the service provider as well as with logical IP address, IMEI address or MAC address of the MUA device.","Modification parameters pertaining to service providers, inter alia include:\n\n","Modification parameters of the aforementioned four categories are stored within database  in respectively allocated sub-entries. Modification parameters of each category are preferably stored, allocated within a respective sub-entry. Each sub-entry contains a list of modification parameters pertaining for a MUA devices, network operators, user\/account profile properties or service providers, alongside the values thereof. Modification parameters are typically either qualitative data, specifying characteristics\/properties of recipient MUA machine and\/or user profile, or quantitative data, specifying the numerical values, such as size, capacity, strength, etc.","Modification parameters from different categories can be combined in a single composite entry, by selecting parameters from different sub-entries. Composite entry is typically either static or dynamic. Static composite entries refer to relatively constant combinations of characteristics\/properties of MUA devices, network operators, user account properties and\/or service providers, represented by modification parameters from different categories, in respective sub-entries. Static composite entries are typically created and preferably prompted as a part of an installation and\/or setup of MUA application on a particular device. Dynamic composite entries refer to somewhat transient combinations of MUA device, network operator and\/or user properties. A dynamic composite entry is typically a characteristic of a web-based MUA interface, otherwise known as webmail, wherein the same user profile properties are frequently combined with different MUA devices and\/or network operators. A dynamic composite entry is typically a characteristic of mobile phones and laptop computers, wherein the same user profile properties and MUA device are frequently combined with different network operators and service providers. The combination of the static or dynamic entries is typically performed by an association of the constituent sub-entries with the UID of the user.","Modification parameters in database  are dynamically updated from recipient MUAs  A-C machines, upon a process actively initiated by recipient MUAs  A-C machines, in accordance with a predefined schedule and\/or triggered by a prescribed event and\/or change in MUA machine registry, such as the last device operable for running recipient MUA, turning the recipient MUA device on, logging into MUA device operating system, launching MUA application, installing of a new application, low disk alert, computer program update, retrieving of and\/or accessing to a message by MUAs  A-C, etc. The update process can be actively initiated by some computer program other than MUAs  A-C running on the recipient MUA machine.","Alternatively or additionally modification parameters in database  are updated upon a process actively initiated by service provider , providing computer network communication services for MUAs  A-C machines. The update of modification parameters by service provider  is typically either initiated in accordance with a predefined schedule and\/or triggered by a prescribed event, such availability\/unavailability of recipient MUA machine on a cellular network, positioning of the recipient MUA machine in a particular geographical location, limitations on data package by network operator, change and\/or excess of a threshold network bandwidth, change and\/or excess of a threshold on network access tariffs, subscription to an online information service, etc.","Alternatively or additionally modification parameters in database  are updated by the holder of the account for messaging service, such as the manager of the recipient account on MTA . Optionally, modification parameters in database  are updated by from terminal interface , dedicated ad hoc inputting user profile properties and or preferences. Interface  is optionally accessible via internet . Alternatively or additionally modification parameters are pushed into database  from internet .","Alternatively or additionally modification parameters in database  are updated by incurring internet , service provider  and\/or MUAs  A-C machines, upon a process actively initiated by the database management system (DBMS) of database . The update of modification parameters actively initiated by the DBMS of database  is typically performed in accordance with a predefined schedule.","Alternatively or additionally modification parameters in database  are updated by various service providers. Modification parameters updated by service providers are typically pushed to the DBMS of database  from internet . Optionally modification parameters from service providers are retrieved actively by a process initiated by the DBMS of database .","Preferably the dynamic update of modification parameters in database , performed upon a process initiated by the DBMS of database  by actively incurring internet , service provider  and\/or MUAs  A-C machines, is triggered by and optimally completed prior to the retrieval of modification parameters SMMA , retrieval of modification parameters TMMA  as well as the aforesaid retrieval of the first type and\/or second type performed by RMMA . The retrieval of modification parameters by SMMA , TMMA  as well as the aforesaid retrieval of the first type and\/or second type performed by RMMA  is inter alia performed via internet .","Alternatively or additionally modification parameters in database  are updated by an appliance. In some instances an appliance is a refrigerator or a computerized warehouse inventory system, capable of monitoring the amount and\/or the condition of the goods store therein. Modification parameters updated by an appliance are typically pushed to the DBMS of database  from internet . Optionally modification parameters from an appliance are retrieved actively by a process initiated by the DBMS of database .","Modification of Messages for Multiple Recipients","Should recipient moiety  comprise a plurality of recipient MUAs  A-C machines, the following system configurations and\/or respective embodiments of the method of the present invention are implementable for handling a modification of messages delivered thereto.","In some embodiments messages modified chiefly by SMMA , prior to the transmittal thereof to the recipient. Message intended to a recipient employing multiple recipient MUAs, such as MUAs  A-C, typically running on different machines, modified by SMMA  in accordance with modification parameters allocated primarily within a composite entries in database , comprising a plurality of sub-entries representing the respective combinations of characteristics\/properties of MUA devices, network operators, user account profile and\/or service providers, associated with particular UID. In such a case, upon retrieval of modification parameters, SMMA  receives from database  a plurality of dynamic or static composite entries associated with a given recipient\/address\/account and consequently generates a respective number of copies from the message, thereafter referred to as a plural modification. Each copy is modified in accordance with the combination of modification parameters in a particular composite entry. The body or the metadata at the header of the message is altered to indicate the identity of the respective composite entry in accordance with whose parameters the modification was performed. Thereafter the modified copies of the message are transmitted to the recipient.","The plurality of the modified copies of the message is received by MTA , MTA  or module  and\/or stored therein or in MDA , until retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to recipient MUAs  A-C. Upon accession, retrieval or pushing of a message by\/to a MUA, of MUAs  A-C, the particular combination of characteristics\/properties of MUA devices, network operators, user account profile and\/or service provider is established and consequently only the copy of modified message with identity corresponding to respective composite entry is selected. In such a case TMMA , module , RMMA , MTA , MRA  or module  is furnished with capability of selecting the particular copy of the modified message corresponding to the identity of the respective composite entry.","The plural copies of the modified of the message stored by MDA , MTA , MTA  or module  are managed, mutatis mutandis, in accordance with methods known in the art and particularly in accordance with post office protocol (POP) and\/or internet mail access protocol (IMAP), standardized in RFC 1064, and\/or MAPI and\/or MAPI\/RPC.","In some embodiments messages modified primary by TMMA , subsequent to the transmittal thereof from MTA  but prior to the receipt thereof by MTA  and\/or retrieval by, accession from and\/or pushing to recipient MUAs  A-C. Message intended to a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, employing multiple recipient MUAs, such as MUAs  A-C, modified and managed by TMMA  mutatis mutandis as set forth supra, in the context of SMMA , by generating a number of copies from the message, respective to the number of recipient MUAs established per given UID, as represented by composite entries in database , storing modified copies in MTA  or module  and thereafter selecting a copy of the message corresponding to the particular combinations of characteristics\/properties of MUA devices, network operators, user account profile properties and\/or service providers. Such a modification is defined as a modification of the second type.","In other embodiments messages modified primary by RMMA , subsequent to the receipt thereof by MTA  but prior to the retrieval by, accession from and\/or pushing thereof to recipient MUAs  A-C. Message intended to a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, employing multiple recipient MUAs, such as MUAs  A-C, modified and managed by RMMA  mutatis mutandis as set forth supra, in the context of SMMA , by generating a number of copies from the message, respective to the number of MUAs established per given UID, as represented by composite entries in database , i.e. a plural modification, storing modified copies in MTA  or MDA  and thereafter selecting a copy of the message corresponding to the particular combinations of characteristics\/properties of MUA device, network operator and\/or user profile properties. Such a modification is defined as a modification of the second type.","In some preferred embodiments messages modified by TMMA  or RMMA  solely upon retrieval by, accession from and\/or pushing to recipient MUAs  A-C. In such instances a message of a general format, which is optionally pre-modified by MPMA  and\/or modified SMMA  beforehand, is stored by MTA , MTA , MDA  or module  until retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushing to recipient MUAs  A-C. Upon establishing a connection, logging-in or initiating of a session by recipient MUAs  A-C, a temporary copy is created from the general format message. The temporary copy is then subjected to modification by TMMA  or RMMA  and the resulting modified copy is thereafter retrieved by, accessed from and\/or pushed to MUAs  A-C; thereafter a temporal singular modification.","Such a modification is defined as a modification of the third type and preferably preceded by a retrieval of the second type; including retrieval of modification parameters from database  performed by TMMA  and\/or module . The general format message is stored by MDA , MTA , MTA  or module  and managed, mutatis mutandis, in accordance with methods known in the art and particularly in accordance with post office protocol (POP) and\/or internet mail access protocol (IMAP), standardized in RFC 1064 and\/or MAPI and\/or MAPI\/RPC.","Configuration 5","In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention, reference is now made to , showing electronic messages modifying system . System , as elaborated infra, embodies an exemplary instant messages (IM) and\/or presence modifying system; presence as referred to herein inter alia standardized in RFC 2778. System  comprises sender moiety  and recipient moieties A to C. Sender moiety  is typically connected to recipient moieties A to C through worldwide computer network , which is typically referred to as the internet, and\/or other telecommunication link (not shown).","Sender moiety  comprises sending terminal . In the instance of instant messaging modification, sending terminal  is an instant messaging\/presence user agent (henceforth IMPUA), which is frequently referred at the colloquial language as client. The terminology referring to the constituents equivalent in their functionality to IMPUA is not standardized in the art, rather the following non-limiting examples are provided to illustrate the functional character thereof:\n\n","IMPUA  is used for the composition of electronic messages and formatting thereof. Electronic messages produced by IMPUA  in a non-limiting manner include: text, alphanumeric data, audio files, video files, graphics and hyperlinks. Various constituents of the electronic messages produced by IMPUA  are disposed within predefined fields allocated in an XML HTML or XHTML structured forms; wherein an instance of the latter is inter alia referred to as XHTML-IM, as defined as ad n XEP-0071 standard draft. Electronic messages generated by message generator IMPUA  are transmitted to MPMA .","Alternatively or additionally message generator  is implemented ad hoc generating numerous electronic messages in a relatively short period of time. Message generator  is typically employed in consumer services and\/or corporate setups, for generating numerous messages to multiple addresses, for instance for the clientele, employees personnel or subscribers to an information service, social network, any type of client service and alike. Electronic messages generated by message generator  are transmitted to MPMA .","Optionally sender moiety  comprises MPMA . MPMA  receives incoming messages from IMPUA  or generator  and applies a pre-modification thereto. The pre-modification applied by MPMA  is mutatis mutandis essentially similar to the pre-modification applied by MPMA , described in more detail supra. The code of the pre-modification parameters embedded in predefined field of an XML or HTML structured form is typically hidden from the view of the recipient. The code of the pre-modification parameters is utilized by a MMA, which include sender, recipient and\/or transfer MMAs. Data\/files necessary for the modification of the message are typically either included with the message or obtainable from an IP address, URI and\/or URL.","The pre-modified message, containing pre-modification parameters, is transmitted to SMMA  or to IM\/PRESENCE server  (hereinafter IM\/PRSN).","Configuration 6","Alternatively or additionally sender moiety  of system  comprises SMMA . SMMA  receives incoming messages from IMPUA , generator  or MPMA  and applies a modification hereto. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is mutatis mutandis essentially similar to the modification applied by SMMA , described in more detail supra. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is performed by modifying a constituent of the message intended for the recipient. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is performed in accordance with at least one modification parameter of the recipient, represented by the UID thereof, retrieved from database . The modification of the messages by SMMA  is optionally performed inter alia in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA .","IM\/PRSN  contains updated data about the recipient moieties A to C. Partially, these data are essentially similar to the modification parameters contained in database . Therefore, alternatively or additionally, modification of the messages by SMMA  is performed in accordance with modification parameters\/data retrieved directly from IM\/PRSN . Database  can be integrated with IM\/PRSN  in module  or form an independent constituent of system .","In some embodiments, updated data from IM\/PRSN  is retrieved by or pushed to DBMS of database , which coverts these data into an updated set of modification parameters and subsequently stores these parameters in database . The update of modification parameters from IM\/PRSN  is preferably prompted upon an initiation of a session with a recipient moiety, such as moieties A to C. Modification of messages in accordance with modification parameters derived from the data obtained from IM\/PRSN , either directly or via storage at database  is hereinafter referred to as modification of the fifth type.","Configuration 7","In some embodiments system  comprises TMMA . TMMA  modifies messages incoming into IM\/PRSN . The modification of the messages by TMMA  is performed in accordance with at least one modification parameter of the recipient, represented by the UID thereof, retrieved from database  and\/or IM\/PRSN . TMMA  is optionally integrated with IM\/PRSN  and\/or database  into module  or forms an independent constituent of system . Database  optionally forms an independent constituent of system . Messages incoming into IM\/PRSN  are typically transferred to TMMA , modified therein, and subsequently returned to IM\/PRSN . If a message is intended to a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, running multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to C, the updated profile data about recipient IMPUAs is used for the creation of the respective number of copies therefor, i.e. plural modification, which are then returned to IM\/PRSN  and transmitted to IMPUAs A to C in recipient moieties A to C.","In other embodiments the messages incoming into IM\/PRSN  are transferred to TMMA , modified therein, and subsequently relayed directly to IMPUAs A to C in recipient moieties A to C. If a message is intended for a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, running multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to C, the UID is preferably employed for the construction of a dynamic composite entry of modification parameters for each particular IMPUA, which are further used for modifying respectively the copy addressed to that particular IMPUA, i.e. temporal singular modification. The copy modified by TMMA  is then transmitted to IMPUAs A to C. TMMA  in such instance is furnished with message relaying capabilities for transmitting the message to recipient moieties A to C.","Configuration 8","In some embodiments system  comprises RMMA, such as RMMAs A to C. RMMAs A to C modify messages respectively incoming into recipient moieties A to C. The modification of the messages by RMMAs A to C is typically performed either in accordance with modification parameters, retrieved from database  and\/or IM\/PRSN . In other embodiments the modification of the messages by RMMAs A to C is performed or in accordance with modification parameters obtained from the machines operable in running IMPUAs A to C. If the modification is performed in accordance with modification parameters available on the machines of IMPUAs A to C, RMMAs A to C are typically provided by pre-modification parameters. Pre-modification parameters can be provided by MPMA  and\/or TMMA , which in the latter instance acts as a MPMA.","Configuration 9","In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention, reference is now made to , showing electronic messages modifying system . System  comprises sender moiety  and recipient moieties A and B. Sender moiety  is typically connected to recipient moieties A to C through computer network . Sender moiety  comprises sending terminal IMPUA  or message generator  implemented for generating numerous electronic messages. Sender moiety  may further include MPMA  for applying a pre-modification to the messages originating from IMPUA  or generator , substantially as described hereinabove.","System  comprises IM\/PRSN A, receiving incoming messages from IMPUA  and\/or generator  in sender moiety  and handles these messages essentially as known in the art, for instance as specified by OMA-IMPS, OMA-PAG, OMA-MWG, XMPP and\/or SIMPLE standards' collections, referred to supra. IM\/PRSN A server is optionally integrated with SMMA  in module A. In some embodiments MPMA  is operable in sender moiety ; whereas in other embodiments MPMA (not shown) is operable in or integrated with SMMA  and\/or IM\/PRSN A in module A.","Database A optionally contains pre-modification parameters. In some embodiments database A is integrated with IM\/PRSN A and\/or SMMA  in module A. In others embodiments, database A forms an independent constituent of system . In yet others embodiments SMMA  retrieves modification parameters from databases B and\/or C. Database  is updated in accordance with methods disclosed hereinabove and\/or from IM\/PRSN A.","IM\/PRSN A typically transfers incoming messages to SMMA  or MPMA (not shown) in module A. The pre-modification and\/or modification of the messages respectively by MPMA (not shown) and\/or SMMA  is performed, substantially as described hereinabove. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is typically performed in accordance with at least one modification parameter of the recipient, represented by the UID thereof, retrieved from database A and\/or in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA  in moiety  and\/or MPMA (not shown) in module A. The modification of the messages by SMMA  is optionally performed in accordance with modification parameters derived from the data obtained from IM\/PRSN A, either directly or via storage at database A, i.e. modification of the fifth type.","After being pre-modified and\/or modified by MPMA (not shown) in module A and\/or SMMA , the messages are typically either directly transmitted therefrom or returned IM\/PRSN A and thereafter transmitted to the recipient moiety\/moieties, such as moieties A to B, or to instant messaging and\/or presence relay  (henceforth IM\/PRSN RLY); in the former instance MPMA (not shown) in module A and\/or SMMA  is furnished with message relaying capabilities for transmitting the messages.","Configuration 10","In some embodiments system  comprises TMMA . In some instances MPMA (not shown) in module A. and\/or SMMA  and\/or IM\/PRSN A, are configured to send the messages directly to IM\/PRSN RLY ; whereas in other embodiments messages directed to the recipient moiety\/moieties, such as moieties A to B, are intercepted and delivered to IM\/PRSN RLY , by a mechanism similar to the MX record exchange, described in more detail at the context of system . Particular examples of such an intercepting mechanism include ENUM servers, operation of which is inter alia standardized in RFC 3761, RFC 3762, RFC 3764, RFC4725.","After receiving incoming messages, IM\/PRSN RLY  transfers these messages to TMMA . TMMA  modifies the received messages in accordance with at least one modification parameter, retrieved from database B, essentially as described supra. TMMA  is optionally integrated with IM\/PRSN RLY  and\/or database B into module B or forms an independent constituent of system ; database  optionally also forms an independent constituent of system . Database  is updated in accordance with methods disclosed hereinabove and\/or from IM\/PRSN A and\/or IM\/PRSN B. The data from IM\/PRSN A and\/or IM\/PRSN B is typically either pushed to the DBMS of database B by IM\/PRSN A and\/or IM\/PRSN B or retrieved by the DBMS therefrom. Some instances triggering an update of database B by pushing data from IM\/PRSN A and\/or IM\/PRSN B thereto include initiation of a session with an IMPUA, such as IMPUAs A to B in moieties A to B, and\/or resumption of active status thereof. Database B is optionally updated from databases A and\/or C.","If a message is intended for a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, currently running multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B, the updated profile data from IM\/PRSN A and typically from IM\/PRSN B about recipient IMPUAs is used for the creation of the respective number of copies therefor, i.e. plural modification, which are then returned to IM\/PRSN RLY  and then transmitted to IMPUAs A to B in recipient moieties A to B.","In other embodiments if a message is intended for a recipient, represented by the UID thereof, currently running multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B, the UID is preferably employed for the construction of a dynamic composite entry of modification parameters for each particular recipient IMPUA, which are further used for modifying respectively the copy addressed to that particular IMPUA, i.e. temporal singular modification. The copy modified by TMMA  is then transmitted to IMPUAs A to B directly or returned to IM\/PRSN RLY  and the transmitted therefrom; TMMA  in the former instance is hence furnished with message relaying capabilities for transmitting the message to recipient moieties A to B.","Configuration 11","In some embodiments sender moiety  and recipient moieties, such as moieties A and B, of system  are implemented on different platforms, for instance Twitter\u00ae, Skype\u00ae, Windows Live\u00ae, Facebook\u00ae or Google Talk\u00ae. In such a case, system  comprises at least one gateway, such as gateways GTWY A and GTWY B. GTWY A and GTWY B acts an IM\/PRSN relay, capable of converting the message to a format compatible with IMPUA and\/or IM\/PRSN of the recipient platform; essentially as known in the art; exemplarily references to GTWY include XMPP-CORE-01, SIP-XMPP-IM-01, SIP-XMPP-CHAT-03, XMPP-PRESENCE-02. GTWY A and GTWY B are connected via interconnect link  or internet .","After converting, GTWY A and\/or GTWY B transmit the messages to IM\/PRSN B. IM\/PRSN B is typically configured similarly to IM\/PRSN A. IM\/PRSN B contains updated profile data about recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B, in recipient moieties A to B. IM\/PRSN B is optionally integrated with RMMA  in module B. In some embodiments database C is integrated with IM\/PRSN B and\/or RMMA  in module A. In others embodiments, database C forms an independent constituent of system . In yet others embodiments RMMA  retrieves modification parameters from databases A and\/or B. Database C is updated in accordance with methods disclosed hereinabove and\/or from IM\/PRSN B.","IM\/PRSN B typically transfers incoming messages to RMMA . The modification of the messages by RMMA  is performed, substantially as described hereinabove. The modification of the messages by RMMA  is typically performed in accordance with at least one modification parameter of the UID, retrieved from database C and\/or in accordance with pre-modification parameters prescribed by MPMA  in moiety  and\/or MPMA (not shown) in module A. The modification of the messages by RMMA  is optionally performed in accordance with modification parameters derived from the data associated with given UI obtained from IM\/PRSN C, either directly or via storage at database C, i.e. modification of the fifth type.","After being modified by RMMA , the messages are typically either directly relayed therefrom or returned IM\/PRSN B and thereafter transmitted to recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B in moieties A to B; in the former instance RMMA  is furnished with message relaying capabilities for transmitting the messages to recipient IMPUAs.","The modification of the messages by RMMA  is optionally performed in accordance with at least one pre-modification parameter prescribed by MPMA  in moiety  and\/or MPMA (not shown) in module A. Sender moiety , module A and\/or module B incorporate SMMA  and\/or TMMA  may act as an MPMA; whereas database A and\/or B optionally contain pre-modification parameters.","In some embodiments the messages are intercepted on their way from IM\/PRSN A to GTWY A and\/or GTWY A to GTWY B and\/or GTWY B to IM\/PRSN A or otherwise delivered to IM\/PRSN RLY  and the modification is performed by TMMA , essentially as described hereinabove. In some embodiments TMMA  and\/or module B are integrated with GTWY A to GTWY B.","Configuration 12","Commonly, in the art, sender IMPUA and recipient IMPUA\/s are implemented on the same platform, for instance Twitter\u00ae, Skype\u00ae, Windows Live\u00ae, Facebook\u00ae or Google Talk\u00ae. Therefore, in some preferred embodiments sender moiety  and recipient moieties, such as moieties A and B, of system  are implemented on a unitary proprietary platform. In such a case, system  typically comprises merely a single IM\/PRSN server (not shown) and does not include GTWY A and GTWY B, somewhat similar to the configuration depicted in  but wherein the modification is performed on the IM\/PRSN level.","Accordingly, in such configurations, IM\/PRSN A and IM\/PRSN B are the very same constituent of system  (not shown). Moreover in such configurations, SMMA  and RMMA  are the very same constituent of system  (not shown), which are optionally integrated with the single IM\/PRSN (not shown) into a module, such as module A or B.","System  typically comprises a single database, such as database A or C, integrated with the single IM\/PRSN (not shown) and\/or a single MMA (not shown), performing the function of SMMA  and RMMA , depending on the direction the message is sent to. In some instances an external database, such as database B, is used for the storage of modification parameters and the single MMA (not shown), performing the functions of SMMA  and RMMA , retrieves the modification parameters therefrom. If sender\/recipient employs multiple IMPUAs, the modification performed by the single MMA can be a plural or a temporal singular modification. The modification by the single MMA is preferably performed in accordance with modification parameters derived from the data obtained from the single IM\/PRSN (not shown) of system .","Configuration 13","In some embodiments of the present invention, the electronic messages modifying system is dedicated for modification of presence messaging. Presence protocols are standardized, inter alia, in OMA-IMPS, OMA-PAG, XMPP and\/or SIMPLE standards' collections, referred to supra and\/or proprietary protocols. In such embodiments the following terminology is commonly used in the art in lieu of foregoing:\n\n","Characteristics of presence messaging systems as oppose to IM systems typically include: a) frequent publishing of one or more presence attributes by the presentity, b) usually a plurality of watchers, whom are typically subscribed or associated with the presentity, and c) obtainment of the messages by watchers, whom are not subscribed or associated with the presentity, inter alia via fetching step; whereas in IM the messages are typically delivered to the recipient via push step.","Therefore, in embodiments dedicated for modification of presence messages, in addition to the modifications of either of the five types defined hereinabove, optionally a modification of the message in accordance with the recent or last presence attribute\/s as provided by and\/or associated with the presentity is performed, henceforth referred to as the modification of the sixth type. One type of a presence attribute is often colloquially referred to as status. Modification of the sixth type optionally includes avoidance from modification of the message, modification essentially as described hereinabove, and\/or precluding notifying to and\/or fetching of the message by a particular watcher and\/or a group of watchers. Database of modification parameters (not shown) is optionally updated from\/by the PRSN of the watcher.","In some instances, the presence attribute\/s of the presentity is\/are utilized for deriving therefrom pre-modification parameters. In such instances, the MPMA (not shown) retrieves the presence attribute\/s of the presentity from the presentity PRSN. Optionally the MPMA (not shown) is integrated with the PRSN of the presentity. Database of pre-modification parameters (not shown) is optionally updated from\/by the PRSN of the presentity.","Typically watchers that are subscribed to or associated with the presentity receive the message via a notification step. If a watcher, as established by the UID thereof, employs multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B in moieties A to B, typically a plural modification is applied to the message, as elaborated supra. Watchers that are neither subscribed to nor associated with the presentity typically receive the message via fetching step. If a watcher, as established by the UID thereof, neither subscribed to nor associated with the presentity, employs multiple recipient IMPUAs, such as IMPUAs A to B in moieties A to B, typically a singular temporal modification is applied to the message, as described hereinabove.","Configuration 14","In some embodiments of the present invention, the electronic messages modifying system is dedicated chiefly to the modification of electronic mail and presence messaging, in such a manner that a particular source or a group of sources is selected from a plurality of sources for the given information; whereby an electronic mail or presence message is modified in accordance with at least one modification parameter and\/or presence attribute of the recipient\/watcher UID, in combination with properties of the recipient\/watcher MUA, IMPUA or PUA machine, qualities\/characteristics of the service provided by the network operator and\/or qualities\/characteristics of external service providers.","For example A, B, C and D are recipients\/watchers of a sender\/presentity, which is an information service, such as a financial alert service sender\/presentity, scientific articles sender\/presentity or news service sender\/presentity. In one instance, information service lists numerous articles for a single informational subject, available from different sources; thus topical economic issues are typically provided independently by several different financial newspapers. The information service, e.g. Google News, associates the articles from several different sources (X, Y and Z) as pertaining to the same topical issue; thereby allowing the users to opt a preferred source for a given topical issue. In another instance, a scientific article or a patent cites several other reference articles, whereas the information service, e.g. a scientific articles portal, such as PubMed, associates the reference articles, possibly from different sources (X, Y and Z), as cited in a given scientific article. A characteristic of both examples is that a single informational subject, such as a topical economic issue or scientific article, is associated with several other articles, respectively, such as articles or cited references from several different sources.","Continuing the example above, recipient\/watcher A is registered to source X and recipient\/watcher B is registered to source Y. Recipient\/watcher C is registered to sources X and Y (having a computer program compatible with source X installed on device  and computer program compatible with source Y installed on device ), whereas recipient\/watcher D is not registered to neither of the sources X, Y or Z but frequently uses a free of charge online sources. Sources X and Y require paid registration, whereas source Z provides a free of charge news service.","Upon a publication of a new article by sources X, Y and Z associated with the financial alert service sender\/presentity, the MMA optionally modifies that message in the following manner: recipient\/watcher A will receive a link for the article provided by source X; recipient\/watcher B will receive a link for the article provided by source Y; recipient\/watcher C will receive a link for the article provided by source X to device  and a another link for the informational subject provided by source Y installed to device ; whereas recipient\/watcher D will not receive the message at all or receive a message with a link to the article provided by source Z.","According to the other example, upon a publication of a new scientific article citing references available from sources X, Y and Z associated with the scientific articles sender\/presentity, the MMA optionally modifies that message in the following manner: recipient\/watcher A will receive a message with notification regarding the new scientific article with a link for the cited reference available from source X and Z, as well as an invitation to register to source Y; recipient\/watcher B will receive a message with notification regarding the new scientific article with a link for the cited references available from source Y and Z, well as an invitation to register to source X; recipient\/watcher C will receive a message with notification regarding the new scientific article with a link for the cited references available from source X, Y and Z; whereas recipient\/watcher D will not receive a message regarding the new scientific article at all or receive such a message with a link for the cited reference available from source Z and an invitation to register to sources X and Y.","In other instances the MPMA of the information service sender\/presentity sets pre-modification parameters in the message, according to which if MMA determines that a particular recipient\/watcher is registered to a given source, such a recipient\/watcher will receive a notification and\/or a link to the article available from said source; whereas if MMA determines that a particular recipient\/watcher is not registered to a given source, such a recipient\/watcher will not receive a notification at all and\/or will receive a message with an invitation to register to said source and\/or will receive a message merely with links to sources that provide a free of charge service and\/or will receive the message merely if at least one free of charge sources is associated with the informational subject.","It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited by what has been particularly shown and described herein above. Thus the modification of electronic messages in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention is performable by either of SMMA , TMMA  RMMA , SMMA , TMMA , RMMA  as well as by any combination thereof. Moreover, the pre-modification parameters set by MPMA , MPMA  in moiety  and\/or MPMA (not shown) in module A, can be utilized in modification by either of SMMA , TMMA  RMMA , SMMA , TMMA  and\/or RMMA  as well as by any combination thereof, as a modification of the first type.","It is further emphasized that various embodiments and\/or configurations of the method\/system of the present invention are typically furnished with backward compatibility support. Thus a message for which modification cannot be established or fails for any reason whatsoever is optionally not modified but rather forwarded by SMMA , TMMA , RMMA , SMMA , TMMA , and\/or RMMA . Furthermore if solely modification parameters of particular category\/categories are established for a given message, the message is merely partially modified in a respective manner. Moreover, similar modification parameters from different categories are preferably assigned with a priority order; for instance the modification parameter associated with UID, such as parameters from the fourth category, e.g. indicative of the service the recipient is typically registered to assigned with a preeminent priority order and overrules the modification parameter indicative of the services the recipient is registered to from any other category.","It is ultimately noted that SMMA , TMMA , RMMA , SMMA , TMMA  and\/or RMMA  are optionally store and manage the retrieved records of modification parameters in a local manner. Thus if modification parameters cannot be established for a given message, the set of modification parameters used for the previous modification can be used. Modification parameters stored and managed as records by SMMA , TMMA , RMMA , SMMA , TMMA  and\/or RMMA  can be assigned with an expiration date and\/or time.","Moreover if modification parameters cannot be established for a given message and\/or a conditional action prescribed by a pre-modification parameter dictates so and\/or established modification parameter dictates so, optionally, no modification is performed on the message and\/or further transmitting of the message and\/or delivery thereof to the recipient is not performed.","The constituent of internet denoted in the drawings and specification hereinabove is not to be construed as an exclusive or sole internet connection, rather the internet is denoted due to the functional meaning thereof, e.g. entailing resolving with the DNS the destination IP address of an MX record, SRV record, etc. It is further elucidated that all and any of the line connectors in the drawings are in a non-limiting manner indicate connections via internet, proxy configuration, direct cable connection and\/or integration.","It should be acknowledged that the access to the database containing the modification parameters, such as databases , A, B or C, in , is typically assigned with permissions and\/or certification levels. Permissions are typically set by the DBMS and or from terminal interface, such as terminal interface , dedicated ad hoc inputting user profile properties and\/or preferences. Permissions are typically assigned as for sources updating the database as well as MMAs, such as SMMA , TMMA  RMMA , SMMA , TMMA  and\/or RMMA , retrieving data therefrom.","It is stressed that in the sake of brevity not all actual combinations of modules, agents and\/or various other constituents from different configurations and\/or embodiments are explicitly disclosed in the specification hereinabove. The emphasis instead has been made on the characteristics of such constituents and functional context thereof. Therefore numerous non-disclosed combinations of modules, agents and\/or various other constituents from different configurations and\/or embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure. In some instances a cross-connectivity between a moiety of IM and\/or presence with moiety\/moieties of E-mail configuration\/s is envisaged."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be understood and appreciated more comprehensively from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the appended drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
