---
title: Resonant dielectric metamaterials
abstract: A resonant dielectric metamaterial comprises a first and a second set of dielectric scattering particles (e.g., spheres) having different permittivities arranged in a cubic array. The array can be an ordered or randomized array of particles. The resonant dielectric metamaterials are low-loss 3D isotropic materials with negative permittivity and permeability. Such isotropic double negative materials offer polarization and direction independent electromagnetic wave propagation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902115&OS=08902115&RS=08902115
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08902115
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110726
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/367,921, filed Jul. 27, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to metamaterials and, in particular, to three-dimensional (3D) isotropic resonant dielectric metamaterials.","Negative refraction index metamaterials and their predicted effects have been theoretically studied, numerically analyzed, and experimentally demonstrated from microwaves to light by many researchers in the past decade. See V. G. Veselago and E. E. Narimanov, 5, 759 (2006). However, anisotropy, dispersion, high refractive index contrast, and particularly loss make the adoption of existing designs to the optical regime difficult without adding gain. See J. Valentine et al., 455, 376 (2008); and S. Xiao et al., 466, 735 (2010). In particular, conventional approaches for obtaining metamaterial properties (\u00b1\u2208, \u00b1\u03bc) are based on orientation dependent, lossy metallic structures, e.g., split-ring resonator\/wire pairs, fishnet and omega shaped structures. However, metamaterials comprising metallic resonators have high conduction loss and have a detailed geometry which is difficult to fabricate on a micron scale required for use at infrared and optical frequencies. Further, a metamaterial with isotropic negative permeability would require three orthogonal orientations of split-ring resonators.","An alternative route, via Mie resonances of magnetodielectric structures, provides a mechanism for engineered electrical and magnetic response. In particular, an all-dielectric metamaterial is easier to fabricate at RF to optical wavelengths, and can have a higher efficiency than metallic metamaterials because of not having metallic loss. In addition, an isotropic metamaterial can be achieved using dielectric spheres. Therefore, to achieve low-loss 3D isotropic scattering at very high frequencies, the unit cell or building block of the negative index material can be a directional independent non-metallic scatterer. For example, double negative (DNG) materials are man-made crystals, wherein the lattice configuration and unit-cell geometry affect scattering, and wherein the effective permeability and permittivity of the crystal can be simultaneously negative for wavelengths where the scatterers are resonant. The ideal directionally independent scatterer is a dielectric sphere. Cubic lattices of dielectric spheres have been predicted to exhibit the DNG property if the unit-cell contains a single sphere with similar relative permittivity and permeability embedded in an air-like host medium. See C. L. Holloway et al., 51, 2596 (2003). However, low-loss isotropic materials with scalar negative permittivity and permeability (or negative index of refraction) are straightforward to analyze, yet rather difficult to realize.","Another drawback to this approach is the simultaneous requirement on the permittivity and permeability. Because permeability greater than unity is difficult to obtain with low loss near optical frequencies, several researchers have proposed the two-sphere per unit cell approach. Spheres of different sizes or of the same-size but with different permittivities may be placed next to each other so that their electric and magnetic resonances overlap. See O. G. Vendik and M. S. Gashinova, 343, 1209 (2004); and A. Ahmadi and H. Mosallaei, 77, 045104 (2008). However, these designs are not strictly isotropic. See I. Vendik et al., 48, 2553 (2006). Another approach to isotropy is to develop bi-layered concentric spheres, commonly referred to as the core-shell structure. See E. F. Kuester et al., A double negative (DNG) composite medium based on a cubic array of layered nonmagnetic spherical particles, 2007\u2014, Ottawa, Canada, 2007. For the core-shell configuration, the key difficulty is numerical optimization. Another approach to DNG 3D isotropy at low-frequencies (L-band) uses artificial transmission lines loaded with reactive lumped elements. See A. Grbic and G. V. Eleftheriades, 98, 043106 (2005). The key difficulties have been design optimization, material selection, and manufacturability.","Therefore, a need remains for a resonant dielectric metamaterial that is isotropic, easy to manufacture, and can be used to develop Ku\/K band systems.","The present invention is directed to a resonant dielectric metamaterial comprising a dielectric matrix; a first set of dielectric particles embedded in the matrix, each particle of the first set being substantially identically shaped and having a substantially identical dielectric constant, the particles in the first set having a dielectric constant that is higher than the dielectric constant of the matrix; and a second set of dielectric particles embedded in the matrix, the second set being substantially identically shaped and having a substantially identical dielectric constant, the particles in the second set having a dielectric constant that is higher than the dielectric constant of the matrix and a permittivity that is different from the permittivity of the particles in the first set; and wherein the particles in the first and second sets are arranged in a cubic array. For example, the cubic array can comprise an ordered array of NaCl-like cubic unit cells or can comprise a randomized array. The dielectric particles are preferably spheres. For example, the dielectric particles in the first or second sets can comprise a high-refractive-index alumina-, zirconia-, or titania-based metal oxide ceramics, such as commercially available AlO, Ba[Sn(MgTa)]O, Ba(ZnTa)O, Ba(MnTa)O, ZrO, (YZr)O, (CeZr)O, BaTiO, CaTiO\u2014NdAlO, BaNdTiO, (Ba,Pb)NdTiO, TiO, MgCaTiO, (ZrSn)TiO, CaTiO, or SrTiO.","The resonant dielectric metamaterials of the present invention are low-loss 3D isotropic materials with negative permittivity and permeability. Such isotropic double negative materials offer polarization and direction independent electromagnetic wave propagation.","A key aspect of metamaterials is that the characteristic structural length scale is small compared to the operating wavelength so that the electromagnetic properties of the metamaterial can be described in terms of effective electric permittivity (\u2208) and magnetic permeability (\u03bc). However, since these quantities arise due to artificial structuring it is possible to achieve properties unlike those found in naturally-occurring materials. To date, most metamaterials have been fabricated using metallic unit cell structures in dielectric media. The unit cell structures are designed to exhibit resonances with the electromagnetic field at predetermined frequencies. The resonances can be electric or magnetic in nature, but in either case a strong dispersion of the optical constants (\u2208(\u03c9), \u03bc(\u03c9), and the refractive index n(\u03c9)=\u221a{square root over (\u2208(\u03c9)\u03bc(\u03c9)))}{square root over (\u2208(\u03c9)\u03bc(\u03c9)))} occur in the vicinity of resonances. This enables the metamaterial designer to \u201cdial in\u201d the optimal optical constants for a given application.","A composite medium comprising an array of dielectric scattering particles embedded in a background dielectric matrix can provide an effective negative permittivity and negative permeability simultaneously. Effective negative permittivities and permeabilities are possible if the effective electric and\/or magnetic polarizabilities exhibit a characteristic resonant behaviour. In particular, when the size of the scattering particles and the distance between the scatterers is small compared to the wavelength in the matrix material and the wavelength is not small in the scatterer material, the effective medium parameters become frequency-dependent. In general, the scattering particle can comprise a dielectric disk, cube, cylinder, tetrahedron, or any general 3D shape capable of establishing dipole moments. The scattering particle is preferably a sphere to maximize the isotropic response. Preferably, the scattering particles have a high dielectric constant compared to the host matrix. Preferably, the medium provides isotropy of the effective permittivity and permeability. For example, isotropy is a general characteristic of a cubic structure. According to the present invention, a 3-D isotropic resonant dielectric material is achieved by a cubic array comprising two particles having the substantially the same size but different permittivities. In general, the cubic array can comprise an ordered structure, such as a NaCl-like or CsCl-like unit cell, or can comprise a random array of particles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1(","FIG. 1(","FIG. 1("],"i":["a","b","c"],"b":["10","11","12","13","11","12"],"sub":["r1 ","r2"]},"As an example of the present invention and using the concept of the metamaterial alphabet, NaCl-like cubic unit cells with a lattice constant of 10 mm comprising 2-mm dielectric spheres were investigated using effective-medium equations and CST Microwave Studio simulations. See A. Ahmadi and H. Mosallaei, 77, 045104 (2008); and C. L. Holloway et al., 51, 2596 (2003). ) is a graph of the effective-medium calculations based on cubic lattices of two sets of 2-mm diameter dielectric spheres as shown in )-(), each spaced 10 mm apart. The effective-medium calculations predict that the effective permeability \u03bcof the second set of spheres overlaps with the effective permittivity of the first set of high permittivity spheres (\u2208=38) as the second spheres' permittivity \u2208is tuned from 38 to 20, resulting in a DNG near 17 GHz when the permittivity of the second set of spheres is \u2208\u02dc20. At this frequency, both the permeability and permittivity become negative simultaneously, producing a negative-index material. ) shows a full-wave simulation of the transmission coefficient versus frequency for the configurations shown in  using CST Microwave Studio simulations. These simulations confirm the effective-medium calculations. The figure shows the magnetic resonance of the high permittivity spheres creates a band gap in the composite transmission near 12 GHz. However, at near 17 GHz, the separate but overlapping band gaps of the high and low permittivity spheres produce a large band-pass region of almost 1 GHz in the composite structure. Because the band gaps in the configurations shown in -) are due to effective permittivity and permeability being negative to their positive counterparts, respectively, it is reasonable to deduce that the transmission in the composite material is due to DNG propagation, i.e. the negative properties of one set of spheres overcomes the corresponding positive property of the other set of spheres in the composite. The range and preferred frequencies of operation can be extended beyond RF frequencies by linear scaling of the particle and lattice dimensions.","To verify the above calculations, electric and magnetic field distributions were examined at 16.76 GHz, where both effective permittivity and permeability are negative.  shows the simulated field distributions at 16.76 GHz inside the unit cell of ). The black arrow in these figures indicates the direction of propagation of a y-polarized plane wave. ) shows the H-field in the x-z plane showing x-polarized magnetic dipoles inside the lower permittivity spheres . ) shows the E-field in the y-z plane showing y-polarized electric dipoles inside the higher permittivity spheres . These figures clearly demonstrate the development of electric and magnetic dipole modes near 17 GHz as predicted by effective-medium calculations. The concurrent existence of symmetric dipole resonances coupled with simulated near-unity transmission indicates that isotropic low-loss DNG propagation has occurred at this frequency. Phase distributions of E field (not shown) also support this finding.","Table I shows commercial RF dielectric compositions that include permittivity values corresponding to the dielectric spheres of the exemplary composite material described above. These compositions have a high permittivity, \u2208, and low dielectric loss tangent, tan \u03b4.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE I"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Commercial RF dielectric compositions with properties "},{"entry":"comparable to simulation material parameters."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Composition","\u03b5","tan \u03b4 (\u202210)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["AlO","10","3"]},{"entry":["MgCaTiO","20","9"]},{"entry":["Ba[Sn(MgTa)]O","25","2"]},{"entry":["Ba(ZnTa)O","30","9"]},{"entry":["(ZrSn)TiO","38","5"]},{"entry":["BaTiO","39","5"]},{"entry":["CaTiO\u2014NdAlO","45","5"]},{"entry":["BaNdTiO","77","5"]},{"entry":["(Ba, Pb)NdTiO","90","5"]},{"entry":["TiO","100","3"]},{"entry":["CaTiO","170","30"]},{"entry":["SrTiO","270","50"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"To verify numerical analysis and simulations, dielectric spheres of (ZrSn)TiO(ZST) and MgCaTiO(MCT) were prepared through standard ceramic processing methods. Commercial powders were cold isostatically pressed, and the resulting compacts were sintered at temperatures greater than 1350\u00b0 C. The resulting dense spheres were lapped, polished and sorted to obtain the desired dimensions, r=2 mm, conforming to the simulation parameters. Non-destructive evaluation techniques, such as x-ray tomography (\u03bc-CT) and atom force microscopy (AFM), can be used to quantify sphericity, surface roughness, and microstructural characteristics. ) is a p-CT scan showing the uniform, dense, and spherical nature of a (Mg,Ca)TiOresonator particle. ) is an AFM scan (30 \u03bcm\u00d730 \u03bcm) illustrating the low surface roughness of the sphere. As described by Vendik et al., one must consider the strict limitation imposed on the manufacturing process of resonators. Specifically, any finite distributions in resonator diameter and\/or corresponding permittivity variations can potentially result in statistical scatter of resonant frequencies outside of the composite's working bandwidth. See Vendik et al., 48, 2553 (2006). Table II shows the tight tolerances associated with the established resonator manufacturing process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE II"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Commercial RF dielectric compositions with properties"},{"entry":"comparable to simulation material parameters"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(Zr, Sn)TiOspheres","(Mg, Ca)TiOspheres"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Weight (g)","0.168 +\/\u2212 0.001","0.127 +\/\u2212 0.002"]},{"entry":["Diameter (cm)","0.400 +\/\u2212 0.000","0.398 +\/\u2212 0.000"]},{"entry":["Relative Density (%)",">97",">99"]},{"entry":["Roughness RMS (\u03bcm)","0.575","0.257"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Dielectric measurements verified that the prepared resonators displayed the as-desired permittivities of \u2208=38 and \u2208=20 with Q values in excess of 1000.","For characterization, ROHACELL\u00ae 31HF foam templates were machined to serve as a 3D support structure for the dielectric sphere matrix. ) is a schematic illustration of the composite unit cell comprising same-sized spherical scatters with different permittivities. The high permittivity spheres are (Zr,Sn)TiOand low permittivity spheres are (Mg,Ca)TiO. ) shows a digital photograph of an offset 26\u00d726 array, multi-layer foam support structure.","As described above, effective-medium results predict that when a set of dielectric spheres (r=2 mm) with \u2208=38 overlaps with a second set of similar sized spheres with \u2208=20 in a NaCl-like lattice, enhanced transmission results near 17 GHz. ) shows the full-wave simulation of the actual NaCl-like cubic configuration comprising 2-mm radius (Zr,Sn)TiO(\u2208\u224838) and MgCaTiO(\u2208=20) spheres situated in a 10-mm NaCl-like cubic lattice inside a ROHACELL\u00ae HF foam support structure. This figure shows that magnetic resonance of the ZST spheres induces a band gap in the composite transmission near 12 GHz. However around 17 GHz, the separate but overlapping band gaps of ZST and MCT spheres produces a large band-pass region of almost 1 GHz in the composite structure. ) shows the experimental results for the NaCl-like cubic unit cell structure. When the ZST and MCT spheres were combined together in the cubic structure, a band-pass response was observed due to both permittivity and permeability being negative. The experimental measurements observe enhanced transmission response(s) in regions where both the response of the dielectric spheres have Smagnitudes, highlighted with low losses \u02dc1 dB\/wavelength.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 7(","FIG. 7("],"i":["a","Phys. Rev. B ","b"]},"A randomized array of similar-sized dielectric spheres of different permittivity configured in a cubic lattice can produce a response similar to that of an ordered lattice.  shows a graph of the transmission coefficient in the TE and TM orientations for ZST and MST spheres arranged randomly in a cubic array compared to the ordered NaCl-like unit cell. The fact that the transmission coefficients are similar in shape and resonance location for both the random and NaCl-like cubic lattices indicates that the local proximity of electrical and magnetic responses is not critical to the desired transmission response of the composite metamaterial. However, additional loss, in this case about 3 dB, was observed with the random composite. A random composite may be more scalable to high frequencies because as the spheres get smaller, it can be more difficult to arrange them in a precise fashion. Therefore, a high-frequency DNG material comprising a random composite may be easier to fabricate.","The isotropic negative index metamaterial of the present invention enables the construction of flat compact perfect dielectric lenses, spatial filters, electrically-small antennas, and prisms at RF frequencies. The example described herein can be scaled to near optical frequencies enabling the use of nano-spheres to produce similar effects.","The present invention has been described as a resonant dielectric metamaterial. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, describe the invention. In the drawings, like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1(","FIG. 1(","FIG. 1("],"i":["a","b","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2(","FIG. 2("],"i":["a","b"],"sub":["r1","r2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1(","FIG. 3(","FIG. 3("],"i":["a","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4(","FIG. 4("],"i":["a","b"],"sub":"3 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5(","FIG. 5("],"i":["a","b"],"sub":["r1","r2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6(","FIG. 5(","FIG. 6(","FIG. 5("],"i":["a","a","b","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7(","FIG. 7("],"i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
