---
title: Tag and seal employing a micromachine artifact
abstract: A tamper resistant seal including a population of particles embedded in an adhesive, the population including at least one micromachine artifact of a predetermined physical shape.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652703&OS=09652703&RS=09652703
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09652703
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE DESCRIPTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Embodiments of the invention were developed under Contract No. DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","Embodiments of the invention are in the field of physical object tags and tamper indicators and more particularly relate to tags and seals employing a micromachine artifact for tamper resistant identification of objects.","Reflective Particle Tag (RPT) technology is in use for physical authentication of a tagged item. Generally, conventional RPT technology entails a field-applied tag, such as a bar code, and a seal composed of a random distribution of specular mineral particles, such as hematite, embedded in an adhesive. When illuminated from different angles, a RPT presents complex patterns of millimeter-scale light reflections unique to the tag. Generally, an RPT procedure entails measuring reference reflected light patterns upon field application of the seal which are recorded in association with the tag (e.g., bar code) to a reference database. Subsequent authentication then entails remeasuring the light reflecting patterns of the seal and comparing the patterns to those recorded for the tag in the reference database. A mismatch is indicative of seal tampering, for example where a seal is broken to access an item's contents or to relocate the tag to another item.","Advances in imaging and computing technology have permitted automation of the RPT procedure, enable greater inspection efficiency and wider adoption by various regulatory authorities. Techniques to increase the uniqueness of an RPT, for identifying the source of a RPT for example, and\/or to provide additional protection against sophisticated methods of tampering, such as bisection and delamination, are therefore advantageous.","The tag technology described herein imparts a predetermined physical uniqueness to at least a subset of particles embedded in an adhesive. In the exemplary embodiment, at least one, and advantageously more than one, micromachine artifact is included in the population of particles which are embedded in the adhesive. As such, one or more of a physical structure, a count, or a relative location, of the one or more micromachine artifacts may be associated with a particular seal to provide a basis for identifying the seal itself (e.g., the seal is cataloged based on a key derived from the physical shape(s) of the micromachine artifacts), identifying a source\/origin of a seal, or identifying an attempt at tampering with seal.","In an embodiment, a RPT includes a population of particles, a first subset of which are specularly reflective, and a second subset of which are micromachine artifacts having a predetermined physical shape. The first and second subsets of the particle population may be randomly distributed in an adhesive matrix. Depending on the embodiment, the micromachine artifacts may contribute to a reflective signature of the tag. In embodiments, the micromachine artifacts have a critical dimension no great than 500 microns.","In an embodiment, a frame is embedded in the adhesive matrix. The frame may be of a contiguous material which forms a perimeter surrounding the population of particles. For example, the frame may be monocrystalline and include alignment marks integrally formed into the frame material.","Embodiments include application and measurement of a tag including a micromachine artifact embedded in an adhesive. In an exemplary embodiment, measurement includes illuminating a portion of the seal containing a population of particles embedded in an adhesive matrix, the population including at least one micromachine artifact of a predetermined shape, collecting image data from the illuminated portion of the seal, and executing an optical pattern recognition algorithm on the image data to identify any artifact matching the at least one predetermined shape.","In the following description, numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known methods and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail, to avoid obscuring the present invention. Reference throughout this specification to \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, function, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrase \u201cin an embodiment\u201d in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, functions, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example, a first embodiment may be combined with a second embodiment anywhere the two embodiments are not mutually exclusive alternatives.","Generally, whereas for conventional RPT the specular particles themselves are of random physical shapes which are not predetermined, the tag technology described herein imparts a predetermined physical uniqueness to at least a subset of the particles embedded in an adhesive. In the exemplary embodiment, at least one, and advantageously more than one, micromachine artifact is included in the population of particles which are embedded in the adhesive. As such, whereas only the light reflecting patterns of the aggregate population of the particles, as applied in the field, imparts an identifiable characteristic to a conventional RPT seal, in the tag technology described herein, one or more of a physical structure, a count, or a relative location, of the one or more micromachine artifacts is associated with a particular seal. The micromachine artifact may then provide a basis for identifying the seal itself (e.g., where the seal or tag is cataloged by a key field derived from the physical shape(s) of the micromachine artifacts), identifying a source\/origin of a seal\/tag, or identifying an attempt at tampering with a seal\/tag.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","105","110","101","100","101","105","101","101","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["105","110","105","101","105","105","115","115","115","115","115"]},"At least one micromachine artifact  is included in the tamper resistant seal . As further shown in , a plurality of micromachine artifacts A, B, C and D having distinct physical shapes may be embedded in the adhesive  to form the single tamper resistant seal . For embodiments described herein, a micromachine artifact is a particle which has been patterned into a predetermined shape having at least one length, referred to herein as critical dimension (CD), that is no greater than 500 micrometers (\u03bcm). In certain embodiments, the micromachine artifact is smaller than 500 \u03bcm in all dimensions. The micromachine artifacts may generally be in any shape or form known in the art and manufactured by any in the vast array of microelectronic and microelectromechanical (MEM) techniques known in the art. Exemplary subtractive techniques include reactive ion etching, wet chemical etching, polishing, and ion beam milling while exemplary additive techniques include chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and physical vapor deposition, either of which may be plasma enhanced.","With the micromachine artifact  having a predetermined shape, it may be made relatively complex to manufacture and therefore difficult and\/or exceedingly expensive to mimic. Either a micromachine artifact's physical shape or physical location within the adhesive matrix, or both, may further provide a basis for identifying the seal. For example, a combination of at least three structurally distinct micromachine artifacts may be included in the particle population , each micro machine artifact type having a different predetermined shape. A source of the seal may then be associated with a library of tens or hundreds of micromachine artifact shapes from which each of the plurality artifacts may be selected to identify a particular seal. A pre-mixed batch of particles may be provided for field application of each seal. The pre-mixed batch of particles may include a plurality of each physically distinct artifact. For example, ten artifacts of a first shape may be mixed with ten artifacts of a second shape and ten artifacts of third shape. The artifact mixture may then be further mixed with particles of an undetermined shape to form the particle population . Upon application of the particle population to an object, the combination of micromachine artifact types may then be utilized to identify or catalog the seal in a manner which is physically unique (as opposed to a bar code which is typically only cataloged as logically unique).","In embodiments, the micromachine artifact  is a monocrystalline or polycrystalline semiconductor material, such a silicon, germanium, or group III and group V elements, and there alloys. In other embodiments the micromachine artifact  is a thin film delaminated from an arbitrary substrate. For such embodiments, the thin film may further be an amorphous material, such as silicon dioxide, or metallic film, such as copper, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1B"],"b":["110","11","110","110","111","112","111","112","111","112","110","113","114","113","114","113","114"],"sub":["1","1 ","1 ","2 ","2 ","2 "]},"In still another embodiment illustrated in , a hexagon having a longest length Mgreater than 500 \u03bcm, and sides ,  also greater than 500 \u03bcm includes plurality of repeating features  and  formed on a side  of the micromachine artifact C. Each repeating feature ,  has a critical dimension no greater than 500 \u03bcm.  illustrates a cross-section view along the a-a\u2032 line of the micromachine artifact C illustrated in , in accordance with an embodiment. As shown, the micromachine artifact C has a predetermined physical thickness T(along the z-axis) which is less than a longest length Mof the artifact (in the x or y-axis). Thicknesses less than the longest length may be advantageous in certain applications where mechanical fragility is desirable as a means of tamper detection, as described further elsewhere herein. For exemplary embodiments which employ micromachine artifacts of single crystalline silicon, the thickness Twill typically be between 50-800 \u03bcm as the micromachine artifacts will generally be formed from silicon wafers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["140","150","105","150","140","101","105","101","140","150","150","110","150","150"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 1C","FIG. 4B"],"b":["150","150","4","150","150","150","110"],"sub":["1","1 ","1 ","1","2 "]},"In an embodiment, the frame  includes alignment fiducials ,  integrally formed into the frame material, for example by any of the fabrication techniques described for the micromachine artifact . The alignment fiducials ,  may take any form conventional in the art for automated, machine-based pattern recognition algorithms and are to provide a translational and\/or rotational frame of reference embedded within a tamper resistant seal (e.g., tamper resistant seal ) to which image data generated by optical scans of the seal may be referenced and cataloged to a database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["500","501","509","500","501","505","507","601","610","615","110","101","505","507","110","507"],"sub":"3 "},"Returning to , a particle population  (see ) may then be randomly distributed in adhesive over a portion of the seal at operation . In reference to the exemplary embodiment illustrated in , the particle population  may, for example, be applied at operation  either as a suspension in uncured adhesive  or physically incorporated after the uncured adhesive B is applied to the component surface  and . As illustrated, a portion of the particle population  is disposed over the hex-shaped micromachine artifact C to further obscure the physical barrier presented by artifact C. As further illustrated by the expanded views in , the particle population  may also include at least one micromachine artifact A, B as well as other particles of unknown shape , either or both of which may be specularly reflective. Due to relatively large physical size, concealment, and mechanical fragility, micromachine artifact C is susceptible to fracture in response to tag defeat attempts. For the micromachine artifacts C which include unique features ( and  in ), imitation is difficult.","Returning to , a frame is applied at operation . In the exemplary embodiment of , the frame  is embedded in the uncured adhesive B before or after embedding the particle population  and\/or the micromachine artifact into the uncured adhesive. As shown in , the frame  is positioned to span the void . The adhesive is then cured to affix the particles and frame to the component surfaces , and . Method  completes with mapping the artifacts' positional data at operation . For RPT embodiments, sparkle data for the particle population  may be further collected using techniques known in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 5C","FIG. 7A"],"b":["602","602","631","150","705","706","155","156","711","715","155","156","725","715"]},"At operation , a portion of the seal containing the particle population embedded in an adhesive matrix (e.g., particle population  in ) is similarly illuminated and image data from particle population collected with an image sensor , such as a CMOS camera. The computer processor  executes another pattern recognition algorithm  to analyze particle image data in search of physical features matching one or more predetermined shapes, which may for example be accessed from artifact shape data  stored to the memory . Any conventional edge or contrast based pattern recognition algorithms known in the art may be employed. Each micromachine artifact identified as a match with one of the predetermined shapes is then associated with a relative position within the seal, in the first embodiment relative to the alignment fiducials , . The position of the identified artifact (e.g., type A, or B, or C, etc.) is then stored to memory  as artifact positional data . For an RPT embodiment, a reflected light pattern is measured and particle sparkle data  is further associated with the artifact positional data  and artifact identity (shape data ) in the reference database .","In a second embodiment illustrated in , at operation , a portion of the seal containing the population of particles is illuminated and image data is analyzed as described above, but in absence of any positional reference provided by a frame fiducial (e.g., for embodiments where no frame is incorporated into the seal). Upon identifying a plurality of micromachine artifacts, a physical position and\/or orientation of first embedded artifact is referenced relative to second embedded artifact at operation . For embodiments where at least three micromachine artifacts are identified at operation , the at least three artifacts may be related in two dimensional space to provide a reference orientation and\/or positional data  which may then be stored along with artifact shape (identity) at operation . For an RPT embodiment, particle sparkle data  is further associated with the artifact positional data  and artifact shape data  in the reference database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 6C","b":["603","650","650","655","660","602","670","680","690","670","680"]},"For embodiments where the micromachine artifacts serve to identify the seal, either or both of a shape (physical identity) or location of each recognized artifact may be utilized as a key field under which a matching record may be recovered for a particular seal previously recorded to a database, such as reference database . For embodiments where other means identify the seal, for example where the seal includes a bar code, either or both of a shape (physical identity) or location of each recognized artifact may be utilized as a means to detect tampering with the seal. Changes in either a physical shape of a recognized micromachine artifact, a count of recognized micromachine artifacts, or location of recognized micromachine artifacts relative the artifact positional data , and artifact shape data  recorded for a particular seal may be automatically identified. For example, a location of an artifact matching a first predetermined shape, relative to the alignment fiducial, is compared to a location previously associated with a micromachine artifact of the first predetermined shape in a database record.","In embodiments, image data collected from a frame surrounding the particle population may also be analyzed for evidence of tampering. For embodiments where the frame  is micromachined to have unique features, the frame is both a fragile and difficult to mimic. Because of the physical fragility of the frame (e.g., single crystalline silicon having a diameter of centimeters and thickness of hundreds of micrometers), the frame is subject to fracture during seal bisection attempts. For example,  illustrates an expanded view of the frame , in accordance with an embodiment. A discontinuity  through the frame may be identified automatically with a pattern recognition routine used to process image data collected under sufficient magnification. For such embodiments, any pattern recognition routines known in the art to be sensitive to the image contrast resulting from the discontinuity  may be employed.","For RPT embodiments, where the population of particles further comprise randomly distributed specularly reflective particles of a random shape, either of methods  and  may be augmented with any conventional method for measuring a reflected light pattern from a tag's particle population. Complex reflection data may be cataloged to a database in association with any micromachine artifacts identified in the tag and\/or in association with a tag frame (e.g., frame ). Authentication and\/or tamper detection may then be further premised on a comparison of a measured reflected light pattern with a reference reflected light pattern.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["700","700","702","704","706","718","730"]},"Processor  represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor, central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processor  may be a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, processor implementing other instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor  may also be one or more special-purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. Processor  is configured to execute the processing logic  for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.","The computer system  may further include a network interface device . The computer system  also may include a video display unit  (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric input device  (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse), and a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker).","The secondary memory  may include a machine-accessible storage medium (or more specifically a computer-readable storage medium)  on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g., software ) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software  may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory  and\/or within the processor  during execution thereof by the computer system , the main memory  and the processor  also constituting machine-readable storage media. The software  may further be transmitted or received over a network  via the network interface device .","The machine-accessible storage medium  may also be used to store pattern recognition algorithms, artifact shape data, artifact positional data, or particle sparkle data. While the machine-accessible storage medium  is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201cmachine-readable storage medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201cmachine-readable storage medium\u201d shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term \u201cmachine-readable storage medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, and optical and magnetic media.","It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative, and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments, it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described, but can be practiced with modification and alteration. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example, and not limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5D","FIG. 5C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5E","FIG. 5C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 5F","FIG. 5C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
