---
title: Tools and techniques for extracting knowledge from unstructured data retrieved from personal data sources
abstract: A system may include multiple personal data sources and a machine-implemented data extractor and correlator configured to retrieve personal data from at least one of the personal data sources. The data extractor and correlator may extract information from unstructured data within the retrieved personal data and correlate the extracted information with previously stored structured data to generate additional structured data. The system may also include a storage device configured to store the previously stored structured data and the additional structured data. A natural language query module may be configured to receive a natural language query from a user and provide a response to the natural language query based at least in part on one or both of the previously stored structured data and the additional structured data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443007&OS=09443007&RS=09443007
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09443007
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111102
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The modern abundance of personal data from sources such as email, contacts, and documents cannot be overstated. Indeed, there exists a significant lack of and ever-growing need for even greater abilities to process such data in meaningful ways so as to provide a user with opportunities to do more than mere keyword searches or similar actions. Current systems offer limited use of information within personal and public data and generally provide a user with little more than typical search engine functionality.","There remains a need for a way to address these and other problems associated with the prior art. More particularly, there remains a need for greater leveraging of personal data for a user, particularly with regard to unstructured data.","The disclosed technology relates generally to data processing, query processing, and more particularly but not exclusively to systems and methods for processing document and text data. For example, knowledge may be harvested from unstructured data and subsequently relied on or used to provide a user with meaningful information that ties together multiple pieces of data from any of a number of personal data sources and, in some embodiments, public data sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","102"]},"The networked system  also includes three mobile electronic devices -. Two of the mobile electronic devices,  and , are mobile communications devices such as cellular telephones or smart phones. The third mobile electronic device, , is a handheld device such as a personal data assistant (PDA) or tablet device.","The networked system  also includes a storage device , which may be a central database or repository, a local data store, or a remote storage device, for example. The storage device  may be accessible to any or all of the other devices -, subject to limitations or restrictions by the devices -, a third party, or the storage device  itself. The storage device  may be used to store some or all of the personal data that is accessed and\/or used by any of the computers  and  or mobile electronic devices -. In situations involving public data, the storage device  may also store any or all of the public data accessed and\/or used by any of the computers  and  or mobile electronic devices -.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","202","104","204","202","206"]},"The AOC  is part of the KELE , which includes various other subsystems such as an intent identification module , a learning module , a concept expansion module , a deep analysis and reasoning module , and various user data sources  that provide personal data and information. The AOC  is configured to interact with a knowledge store , such as the storage device  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","302","304","304"],"i":["n","n "]},"The system  also includes a knowledge store  configured to store knowledge, generally in the form of structured data. As used herein, the term structured data generally refers to data or information that is identifiable because it is organized in a structure. Structured data is typically searchable by data type within content, readily understood by computing devices, and efficiently organized for human readers. Structured data as described herein can generally be used to identify a person, place, or item involved with a particular field or industry, e.g., sales. Such structured data typically includes, but is not limited to, fields in a CRM application, such as contact information, account name, contact name, invoice number, and phone number.","Structured data is usually organized in such a way that it is readily and often easily searchable, presentable, or useable by an application or user. In contrast, the term unstructured data as used herein generally refers to data that has no identifiable structure. Unstructured data may include content that is similar or even identical to corresponding structured data but is not organized in such a way that it is readily or easily searchable, presentable, or useable by an application or user. Whereas data corresponding to a \u201csender\u201d field in an email message is usually structured data, for example, the typical freeform text of the email body is generally unstructured data.","The data extractor and correlator  is configured to retrieve personal data from at least one of the personal data sources A-. For example, the data extractor and correlator  may be configured to retrieve all incoming email messages subject to a filter, e.g., all email messages from a certain sender or originator. Alternatively or in addition thereto, the data extractor and correlator  may retrieve all documents created by or edited by the user. A functional or actual filter may be used to specify that only certain documents, e.g., documents pertaining to sales involving the user, are to be retrieved by the data extractor and correlator .","The data extractor and correlator  is further configured to extract information from unstructured data within the retrieved personal data. For example, an email message retrieved from the data extractor and correlator  may contain unstructured data such as freeform text in the subject or body of the message. In such a situation, the data extractor and correlator  may extract certain words, terms, or phrases, such as contact information or sales-related information, from the unstructured data within the message.","The data extractor and correlator  is further configured to correlate the extracted information with previously stored structured data, e.g., stored in the knowledge store , to generate additional structured data. For example, consider a situation in which the data extractor and correlator  extracts additional information, e.g., a secondary phone number extracted from the body of an email message, that pertains to a sales contact having information, e.g., a name and a primary phone number, that is already stored in the knowledge store . The extracted information (secondary phone number) will be correlated with the previously stored structured data (existing name and primary phone number) to generate additional structured data (secondary phone number added to or associated with the existing contact).","The knowledge store  is configured to store additional structured data as well as previously stored structured data. The data extractor and correlator  thus provides output in the form of enriched knowledge that may be stored within the storage device  and used in subsequent queries or applications by the user or other users or even other applications. For example, in the situation described above, a subsequent query by a user involving the sales contact may provide the secondary phone number without the user needing to perform an additional or more detailed search for the information.","Table 1 provides an example of different types of structured data that may be extracted from various types of personal data sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Personal Data Source Type","Extracted Structured Data"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Email","From, to, signature, threaded email"]},{"entry":[{},"conversations, subject field, date, "]},{"entry":[{},"time stamp"]},{"entry":["Calendar","Location, time, invitees, attendees, "]},{"entry":[{},"recurrence, time zone"]},{"entry":["CRM","Account, contact, case, opportunity, "]},{"entry":[{},"partners, contact, approval, asset, "]},{"entry":[{},"campaign, lead"]},{"entry":["Address Book","Name, Company, Title, email, phone, "]},{"entry":[{},"fax, web url, IM ID, Chat ID, mobile "]},{"entry":[{},"number"]},{"entry":["Documents and document ","Last modified time, meta data, header, "]},{"entry":["stores","footer, copy right information, title, "]},{"entry":[{},"author, shared access list"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Table 2 provides an example illustrating how the data extractor and correlator  of  may analyze and correlate structured data and convert it into enriched knowledge.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Structured Data","Enriched Knowledge"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Bruce Thomas","First Name: Bruce"]},{"entry":["<bruce.t@zen.com>","Last Name: Thomas"]},{"entry":[{},"Possible Org: Zen Inc (common emails domains"]},{"entry":[{},"like yahoo.com, msn.com, gmail.com are excluded)."]},{"entry":[{},"Zen.com is used to collect information about the"]},{"entry":[{},"organization."]},{"entry":[{},"Company or Org Type: Machine tool and"]},{"entry":[{},"manufacturing industry. Extracted from Zen.com"]},{"entry":[{},"web site"]},{"entry":[{},"Group Members: Information extracted based on"]},{"entry":[{},"all the individuals Bruce Thomas interacts with"]},{"entry":[{},"using the email ID Bruce Thomas."]},{"entry":[{},"Information Co-relation and Consolidation: All email"]},{"entry":[{},"addresses, phone numbers and other information is"]},{"entry":[{},"co-related and consolidated."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Certain embodiments of the system  of  further include a machine-implemented document harvester configured to retrieve one or more documents from at least one of the personal data sources A-. Such embodiments may further include a machine-implemented document indexer configured to index a plurality of documents harvested by the document harvester from the personal data sources A-","A document harvester and indexer may be used to process and index documents including files, e.g., word processing files, spreadsheet files, presentation files, individual slides in presentation files, etc., calendar events, to do lists, notes, emails, email attachments, and web pages. These documents may be retrieved locally from a user's computer and\/or remotely from network storage, e.g., a server that stores documents produced by a plurality of users, as well as from the Web, e.g., from web pages via Web application programming interfaces (APIs). The documents may also be tagged and\/or clustered.","As documents are harvested, a word popularity dictionary may be created. Word popularity generally refers to a global dictionary containing high frequency words and weights. When a new document is harvested, for example, keywords that do not exist in the dictionary may be added. Stemming may be applied to obtain root words and text may be converted to lowercase. As a user interacts with the system by sending email, visiting web pages etc., the weights in the dictionary can be constantly updated. Keywords in frequently-accessed documents may be given higher weights while keywords in less-important documents may be given lower weights. Consequently, an up-to-date and accurate model of the user's universe and behavior may be effectively constructed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["307","300","307","306","307","302","307","306","306","307"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","408"]},"In the example, the user profile module  is configured to interact with any number of user profiles A-. Each user profile may correspond to one or more users. Also, any given user may be associated with multiple user profiles. For example, each user profile may correspond to a certain role, e.g., sales coordinator, that may be assigned to or associated with multiple users. Multiple user profiles A-may correspond to a user's particular situation. For example, a user may have one user profile A for work-related items and a second user profile B for home-related items. Alternatively or in addition thereto, a user may have one or more profiles that correspond to activities with friends, one or more profiles that correspond to family activities, and one or more profiles that correspond to business-related events.","The user profile module  may interact with a knowledge store  such as the knowledge store  of , for example. The user profile module  may also interact with any of a number of user applications A-such as a sales-oriented application, for example. In certain embodiments, a user's experience with a certain user application may be influenced or even driven by one or more of the user profiles A-. For example, if the user is interacting with user application B concerning a particular sale involving information associated with user profile C, the user profile module  may direct the user application B to proactively provide certain information, e.g., certain contact information stored within the knowledge store , to the user.","In certain embodiments, the user profile module  may interact with one or more public data sources . For example, a personal corpus or web data often do not provide enough information to build or update a user profile that is detailed or accurate enough for certain applications. In these embodiments, the user profile module  may proactively seek or passively receive public information pertaining to a contact whose information is stored by the knowledge store . If the new public information is different than the previously stored information, the user profile module  may direct the knowledge store  and\/or one or more of the user profiles A-to update the corresponding information accordingly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["407","307","400","407","406","407","408","407","406","410","410","407","408"],"i":"n"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["500","516","500","508","408","510","410","508","506","306"],"i":["n","n "]},"The feedback module  may interact with one or both of the user profile module  and the knowledge store . In certain embodiments, the feedback module  may interact with one or more public data source  and may cause the user profile module  to alter or update one or more of the user profiles A-based on interactions with the public data source(s) . In certain embodiments, the feedback module  may interact directly with a user associated with one of the user profiles A-. Alternatively or in addition thereto, the feedback module  may interact directly with one or more user applications A-, such as the user applications A-of .","Consider a situation in which user profile B involves a particular sales contact whose contact information just changed and is broadcast via the public data source . The feedback module  may direct the user profile module  to update one or more of the user profiles A-with the new public information concerning the sales contact. The user profiles A-can be continually updated and enriched as more searches are conducted and in an increasingly refined manner. For example, suggestions provided to a user based on his or her user profile(s) may be increasingly relevant as time goes on.","In embodiments where the feedback module  interacts with one or more user applications A-, the feedback module  may be triggered to direct the user profile module  to update one or more of the user profiles A-responsive to the interaction with the user application(s) A-. For example, if the feedback module  detects a user updating a contact mailing address in user application B, the feedback module  may direct the user profile module  to update any of the user profiles A-that include a mailing address for the contact.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":["507","307","500","507","506","507","516","507","506","516","510","508","516","514"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["600","602","302","304"],"i":"n "},"At , information is extracted from unstructured data within the data retrieved at . For example, a data extractor and correlator, such as the data extractor and correlator  of , may extract information pertaining to a sales order such as one or both of an invoice number and a contact name. Such information may be unstructured in that it is neither organized in a structured manner nor readily classifiable or useable without modification or organizing. For example, the information may be a free-text piece of data such as the body of an email message.","The information extraction performed at  may be accomplished by breaking at least one sentence into subject, verb, and object (SVO), extracting phrases that link a subject to an object, extracting at least one word in close proximity to an identified feature or service, extracting at least one word in close proximity to a known quality, or any combination thereof. Features with certain quality or derived quality ratings may be tagged for reviews, for example. Also, structures that approximate concepts from documents with and without prior semantic understanding may be constructed.","At , some or all of the extracted information is correlated with previously stored structured data to generate additional structured data. For example, a data extractor and correlator, such as the data extractor and correlator  of , may correlate the invoice number and\/or contact name discussed above with an existing order and\/or contact having associated structured data stored within a knowledge store, such as the knowledge store  of . The knowledge store may store both the additional structured information and the previously stored structured data as indicated at .","In certain embodiments, the retrieved data includes supplemental structured data, e.g., structured data that has not yet been stored within a knowledge store. In these situations, the data extractor and correlator may correlate the supplemental structured data with one or both of the previously stored structured data and the additional structured data to generate further structured data that may be stored by the knowledge store.","Certain embodiments may include retrieving public data from one or more public data sources. In these embodiments, a data extractor and correlator may extract public information from unstructured data within the retrieved public data and correlate the extracted public information with previously stored structured data to generate further additional structured data that may be stored by the knowledge store.","In certain embodiments, a user profile, such as the user profiles A-of , may be generated based at least in part on one or both of the previously stored structured data and the additional structured data, as indicated at . Alternatively or in addition thereto, an existing user profile may be updated based at least in part on one or both of the previously stored structured data and the additional structured data, as indicated at . Generation and modification of user profiles may be performed by a user profile module, such as the user profile module  of .","At , a natural language query is received from a user. For example, a user wishing to research a particular sales lead may provide the following query: \u201chas there been any recent progress with sales lead XYZ Manufacturing?\u201d The system then generates a response to the natural language query received at , as indicated at . The response is based at least in part on one or both of the previously stored data and the additional structured data. For example, if the stored structured data contains information pertaining to XYZ manufacturing, the generated response may provide said information to the user in the response.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","702","602"]},"At , semantic analysis is performed on the raw content. For example, a semantic analysis module may be configured to determine semantic information based on unstructured data within the retrieved data. A data extractor and correlator, such as the data extractor and correlator  of , may be configured to correlate the extracted information with previously stored structured data based at least in part on the semantic information.","Certain embodiments include performing a search of one or more data sources based on results of the semantic analysis performed at . Such embodiments may include performing a search of one or more personal data sources, as indicated by , or performing a search of one or more public data sources, as indicated by .","At , an additional analysis is performed based at least in part on the results of the search performed at either  or . In certain embodiments, a user profile, such as the user profiles A-of , may be updated, e.g., by a user profile module, based on one or both of the results of the search performed at either  or  and the additional analysis performed at . The additional analysis performed at  may include an inference analysis, a topic analysis, information tagging, information clustering, or some combination thereof. Probabilistic links may also be created based on the additional analysis. Over time, topics may be augmented, merged, deleted, or split depending on the analysis. Also, sub-topics may be created based on the analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","805","805","804","804","804","804","804","804"]},"In the example, the data sources A-E collectively yield five pieces of structured data A that may be retrieved, for example, by a data extractor and correlator: sales contact information (name and email address), account name, contact name, invoice number, and phone number. The data sources A-E also provide various pieces of unstructured data B: two proper names (person and company), meeting time, two invoice numbers, a phone number, meeting-specific information, and sales-specific information.","Certain information, e.g., invoice numbers, from the unstructured data B may be correlated with the structured data A. Such correlation may include identifying, extracting, or building at least one relationship between the extracted information and previously stored structured data. For example, one or more features identified within the extracted information may be tagged or otherwise marked for subsequent operations. Parts of speech analysis may also be performed and then enriched by relationship determinations.","In certain embodiments, correlation and relationship building may include categorizing one or more portions of the unstructured data. Portions of the unstructured data B may each be broken into subject, verb, and object (SVO). Phrases linking a subject to an object may be extracted. A determination may be made as to certain words in close proximity to an identified feature or service, known quality, or any combination thereof.","Consider an example in which the word \u201cApple\u201d in unstructured free-flowing data could have multiple meanings. The word could refer to a fruit, the name of a company, the name of a person, etc. Relationships may be established to decipher the meaning of certain unstructured data. A possible association to each of these entities can be created and those that have a high probability based on parts of speech analysis and entity relationship identification, for example, may be strengthened. In the present example, an inference may be made that \u201cApple\u201d is a company based on its learning from a prior structured data analysis. Table 3 provides an indication as to the relationships for \u201cApple\u201d that may be identified from structured data. In the example, the word \u201cApple\u201d occurs along with \u201cApple Thomas\u201d and \u201cRob Cramer.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Structured Data","Relationship Identification"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Apple in Apple Thomas","First name of an person"]},{"entry":["Apple","Company or business entity name"]},{"entry":["Apple Thomas","Name of an person"]},{"entry":["Rob Cramer","Name of a person"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","902","904","906","908"]},"In certain embodiments, one or more patterns may be extracted or determined from structured data, such as previously stored structured data, to create pattern fingerprints. Patterns may subsequently be extracted from the unstructured data using these pattern fingerprints. For example, structured data may be used to construct a pattern fingerprint knowledge base and then use the pattern fingerprinting knowledge to recognize similar items from unstructured data and establish their relationship with various entities. For example, fingerprint data patterns can be learned and determined for sales and\/or contact-related attributes such invoice number, P.O. number, and phone number. These learnings may be applied to identify similar patterns in unstructured data and identify additional relationships between entities.","Certain implementations of the disclosed technology may include personalized searching capabilities and features, personalized content delivery, personalized advertisement delivery, intelligence gathering and analysis, and automated augmentation of knowledge bases.","Embodiments of the disclosed technology may be implemented as machine-directed methods or physical devices. Accordingly, certain implementations may take the form of an entirely-hardware embodiment, an entirely-software embodiment, or an embodiment combining both hardware and software aspects. For example, some or all of the components for any given embodiment may be computer-implemented components.","Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments, it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments may be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles, and may be combined in any desired manner. And although the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments, other configurations are contemplated. In particular, even though expressions such as \u201caccording to an embodiment of the invention\u201d or the like are used herein, these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities, and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein, these terms may reference the same or different embodiments that are combinable into other embodiments.","Consequently, in view of the wide variety of permutations to the embodiments described herein, this detailed description and accompanying material is intended to be illustrative only, and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. What is claimed as the invention, therefore, is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
