---
title: Media content catalog service
abstract: Aggregating media content catalog data from a plurality of content providers. The catalog data is merged according to rules and provided to a user on a scheduled basis or on demand. In an embodiment, the merged catalog data represents an incremental update to previously delivered catalog data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08555317&OS=08555317&RS=08555317
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08555317
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110503
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Appendix A","Appendix B","Appendix C"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/461,589, filed Aug. 1, 2006, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","Consumers have been benefiting from additional freedom and control over the consumption of digital media content. One example is the proliferation of personal video recorder systems (PVRs) that allow consumers to record television shows for later viewing. The adoption of PVRs has furthered interest in on-demand, consumer-driven experiences with content consumption. Examples of existing systems include on-demand digital cable, internet video streaming services, and peer-to-peer distribution networks. Other existing systems include music and video stores providing consumers with content that may be purchased and subsequently viewed on personal video or audio players.","Video catalog services list the programming available through existing video services. Such video catalog services are typically developed based on the music service or video blog service associated therewith. As a result, there are certain design limitations. For instance, the existing video catalogs are derived from a music or video blog catalog which lacks support for concepts particular to the video space such as \u201cchannel\u201d and \u201cseries\u201d. In addition, there is no support for offline video catalog browsing. Users must be online to browse the video catalog in the existing systems. Further, there is no support for ad-sponsored free video downloads. Existing systems also typically rely on a single source for catalog content.","Embodiments of the invention provide a catalog of media items to a user. In an embodiment, the invention aggregates catalog data received from a plurality of content providers. The catalog data is associated with a plurality of media items available from each of the content providers. The aggregation occurs based on rules to create a user catalog in a pre-defined catalog format for consumption by a user.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Other features will be in part apparent and in part pointed out hereinafter.","Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the drawings.","In an embodiment, the invention includes a media content catalog service such as illustrated in . While  illustrates an exemplary operating environment for the media content catalog service, aspects of the invention are not limited to such an environment. The media content catalog service is operable in other operating environments such as a video game console embodiment, a streaming media system, a traditional cable television system, an audio file catalog embodiment, a pay download embodiment, an ad-sponsored free download embodiment, a subscription embodiment, and the like.","Further, although described primarily in the context of video media files, aspects of the invention may be applied to various forms of digital media, including video and multimedia files (e.g., movies, movie trailers, television shows, etc.), audio files (e.g., music tracks, news reports, audio web logs, audio books, speeches, comedy routines, etc.), media broadcasts (e.g., webcasts, podcasts, audiocasts, videocasts, video blogs, blogcasts, etc.), and images.","Aspects of the invention support both online and offline catalog browsing with a hybrid catalog request model. Alternatively or in addition to viewing the catalog online, the hybrid catalog request model enables catalog data to be downloaded by a client for offline catalog browsing, and enables catalog data to be requested on-demand.","In one embodiment, the invention interlinks, merges, aggregates, or otherwise combines catalog data from multiple content providers to create an integrated catalog with metadata from the content providers based on rules. The integrated catalog contributes to a consistent user experience. The rules are configurable and may be updated without recompiling the aggregation engine. Exemplary rules are shown in Appendix A. While the combination of the catalog data may be referred to as \u201cinterlinking\u201d and\/or \u201cmerging\u201d in particular embodiments, aspects of the invention are operable with any process to combine the catalog data.","Referring again to , an exemplary block diagram illustrates a media content download system. In one embodiment, the media content download system of  is an Internet on-demand video service that offers a large catalog of program content that may be downloaded by users free of charge (e.g., no subscription fee), on a subscription basis, or on a pay-per-download basis. The program content and ads (e.g., content items) are always available. For example, the content items may be stored on a computing device local to the user  such as media service client , or archived on a server (e.g., such as owned by content owners ). The content items may be organized in a hierarchy of seasons each having series with each series having episodes. Revenue is generated by dynamically associating ads with the program content at playback time. The ads are inserted into the program content at playback time, and as such, may change from viewing to viewing.","The content owners  or providers supply program content (e.g., video and\/or audio files) with associated metadata. Exemplary video fundamentals provided by the content owners  are shown in Appendix B. The example in Appendix B is merely exemplary. Other embodiments of the video fundamentals (e.g., markup language files) are contemplated. This metadata also includes the locations in the video at which ads can be inserted (e.g., ad breaks), and which ads provider is responsible for running the ad campaigns. One or more ads providers or advertisers  sell ads against the ad breaks. The ads providers supply ad content . The ads providers also run an ad engine and report collection service  for collecting the reports of which ads have been played. Furthermore, the ads providers make available ad manifest files via an ad manifest service . The ad manifests may be distributed via database, stream, file, or the like. The ad manifests include information about the current ad campaigns including which ads (or groups of ads) should be associated with which types of program content. The ad manifests also specify when the advertising may be shown and on what devices\/formats. The ad manifests further include the definition of tracking events for reporting on the advertising playback (e.g., a video ad was played, thus it can be billed).","Content ingestion servers  receive the program content supplied by the content owners  together with the location of the ad manifests. Content delivery networks  interface with the media service client  or other computing device associated with the user  to deliver the content items including program content and advertisements to the user .","The user  interfaces with the media service client , application, computing device, or the like that provides functionality such as browsing, searching, downloading, managing and consuming the content items. The media service client  downloads catalog data  from a catalog service  and allows the user  to browse it in search of content items. Once an item is selected for download, the corresponding ad manifest is retrieved by the media service client  and stored. The ad manifest for each item of program content includes the information for determining which ads should be downloaded together with the program content. The media service client  downloads the selected program content and associated ads. Downloading includes retrieving the program content and associated ads. Downloading may also include receiving the program content and associated ads pushed from another computing device (e.g., pushed from a server at regular intervals).","The catalog service  includes or has access to a memory area . The memory area  stores a plurality of interlinking rules . The interlinking rules  define the processing of input data. The processing may include interlinking, merging, or any other combination of the catalog data . The memory area  further stores the catalog data  from the content owners . The catalog data  is associated with a plurality of media items available from each of the content owners . The catalog data  includes metadata items describing the media items. Exemplary metadata items describe aspects of the media item such as category, genre, contributor, ratings, and roles (e.g., actors, actresses).","In one embodiment, one or more computer-readable media or other memory areas such as memory area  associated with the catalog service  have computer-executable components comprising a rules component , an interface component , an aggregation engine component , and a front end component . The rules component  enables configuration, by the user , of interlinking rules  for combining catalog data such as catalog data  from the content providers or owners . The interface component  receives, from the content owners , the catalog data  including a plurality of metadata items. Each of the plurality of metadata items includes channel metadata and group metadata. The channel metadata and group metadata describe a media item associated with the metadata item. The aggregation engine component  combines the catalog data  received by the interface component  at least by comparing the channel metadata and group metadata from the received catalog data  to identify similar media items. The front end component  provides the combined catalog data  to the user . In an embodiment, the rules component  updates the interlinking rules  based on input from the user  without recompiling the aggregation engine component .","In an embodiment of the invention, a computer, computing device, or other general purpose computing device is suitable for use as the catalog service  in the figures illustrated and described herein. The computer has one or more processors or processing units and access to a memory area such as memory area .","The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media, which include both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media, may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer. By way of example and not limitation, computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal, which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media, such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media, such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media, are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","In operation, a computing device executes computer-executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures to implement aspects of the invention.","Referring next to , an exemplary flow chart illustrates operation of a video catalog service. At , the catalog format is defined according to a multi-field schema or other catalog format such as described in Appendix C. The catalog format stores metadata in fields such as a virtual channels data field, a video data field, a video group data field, a video series data field, a contributor data field, a poster data field, a trailer data field, and a supplementary data field. Each provider may create a virtual channel of content. The virtual channels data field stores metadata corresponding to a video list defining one or more video elements and a contributor list defining one or more contributor elements. Each of the video elements has an identifier and a title associated therewith. Each of the contributor elements identifies a contributor to the media content. The video group concept allows grouping of similar or related media content items together (e.g., by series, actor, movies, or television award). The catalog format also includes an action type for each of the received catalogs. The action type includes one or more of the following: add, edit, and delete. Interlinking and\/or merging rules are configured at . The interlinking rules may be configured based on input from the user or automatically adjusted as a result of previous interlinking operations (e.g., a feedback system). The flow loops until catalog data is received from the content providers at . The catalog data being associated with a plurality of media items available from each of the content providers. In an embodiment, receiving the catalog data includes importing and loading a data feed from each of the content providers. The content providers format their catalog data according to the multi-field schema supported by aspects of the invention. Alternatively or in addition, a tool (e.g., a web tool) receives the catalog data from the content providers as input and outputs data in conformance with the schema.","The received catalog data is aggregated or merged at  based on the configured interlinking and\/or merging rules. In an embodiment, interlinking comprises comparing the metadata items from the catalog data to identify similar media items. Aspects of the invention are operable with a plurality of techniques for identifying similar media items, or other forms of metadata matching, including, for example, fuzzy matching techniques. Merging and aggregating the catalog data includes parsing the catalog data received from the plurality of content providers and assigning the parsed catalog data to one or more fields of the multi-field schema.","The user catalog is generated at  or formatted from the aggregated catalog data based on the pre-defined catalog format for consumption by the user. In an embodiment, generating the user catalog includes propagating the user catalog to a front end database for access by the network interface. The generated user catalog is provided to the user at , for example, by a network interface, on a scheduled basis or on demand.","Aspects of the invention further include transmitting a portion of the generated user catalog to the user. The portion of the generated user catalog may represent an incremental update to a previously transmitted user catalog. Transmission of the incremental update reduces download time and conserves bandwidth. The incremental updates reflect the changes made to the catalog since the last download. Such options may be based on user preferences or system-defined preferences. Exemplary preferences may direct, for example, the download of a full catalog if the user is operating from a personal computer or download incremental updates if the user is operating from a mobile device.","In one embodiment, one or more computer-readable media have computer-executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .","Referring next to , an exemplary block diagram illustrates a video catalog system. In this exemplary embodiment, International Standard Audiovisual Number (ISAN) data import is supported. Metadata is interlinked and merged at the ISAN identifier level. Aspects of the invention map the IDs across the content providers.","Referring next to , an exemplary block diagram illustrates the import, interlinking, and merging of metadata from content providers. Data interlinking merges metadata items based on a set of business rules. One outcome of this process is to generate a mapping table with mapping between elements.","Referring next to , an exemplary flow chart illustrates receipt of catalogs from content providers. Referring next to , an exemplary flow chart illustrates metadata aggregation.","Referring next to , an exemplary flow chart illustrating rule-based catalog interlinking. Each rule includes one or more of the following parameters: attribute name (e.g., attribute\/collection name to match), weight (e.g., weight for this rule), and a similarity threshold score (e.g., a minimum similarity score threshold for this rule to link the metadata item).","Referring next to  and , an exemplary flow chart illustrating a similarity analysis during rule-based metadata interlinking. Metadata interlinking is a multi step process. Each rule may have a different significance to a step; therefore, rules are weighted in one embodiment. To control the quality of the interlinking, each rule has a minimum similarity. If the similarity is less then the minimum, it is not considered. The summation of the weighted similarity of all rules defines the similarity of a step, which then may be compared to the step's minimum similarity to generate a match. An exemplary summation is shown below in equation (1).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"SS","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"RC"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":["RSn","RWn"],"mo":"*"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In one embodiment, the fuzzy matching algorithm works on two tables at a time (e.g., \u201csource\u201d and \u201cdestination\u201d tables). Multiple columns of each table are considered for the fuzzy look up. Each column may have a different significance to the rule, therefore, columns are weighted. To control the quality of the interlinking, each column has a minimum similarity. If the similarity is less then the minimum, it is not considered. The summation of the weighted similarity of all columns defines the similarity of the rule. An exemplary summation is shown below in equation (2)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"RS","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"CC"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":["CSn","CWn"],"mo":"*"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Data normalization is performed at the column level. In one embodiment, multiple normalization processes are defined for each column and executed in a predefined order.","In \u201crow level interlinking,\u201d the names, birth dates, birth places, etc. of two people may be compared. These attributes are stored in a single row because of their one-to-one relationship with the people. A result row is built from multiple source rows. In \u201ccollection level interlinking,\u201d the peoples' works (e.g., songs they've sang, movies they have starred in, etc.) are compared. A result collection is built from multiple source collections. To perform collection level interlinking, each item of the collection is compared as with row level interlinking. Treated as a collection, the collection level similarity may be calculated and compared to a predefined minimum collection similarity. There are many ways of defining collection similarity, as shown in equations (3), (4), and (5).\n\n\u2003\u2003(3)\n\n\u2003\u2003(4)\n\n\/()\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nwhere SCC represents a source collection count, DCC represents a destination collection count, MC represents a match count, and CS represents a collection similarity. Alternatively or in addition to a calculated relevant number, collection similarity may also be defined as a fixed number.\n","In one embodiment, the collection level interlinking is performed after the row level interlinking. In an embodiment, the fuzzy matching algorithm uses a set of pre-defined working tables as the input and output at runtime.","To differentiate columns from different sources in a row merge, or to differentiate collections from different sources in a collection merge, a priority is assigned to each of column\/collection. There are two types of priority: static (e.g., predefined) and dynamic (e.g., content based). A static priority is a predefined, fixed value which does not change based on the content of the data. A dynamic priority is based on the content of the data. For example, for a row merge, the priority may be based on the value of the content or the string length of the content. For a collection merge, the priority may be based on the collection item count and a maximum and\/or minimum value of a column.","In an embodiment, the priorities are the same from different sources. There are multiple, different ways of handling such a conflict including selecting one of the sources, or concatenating or summing the content from the conflicting sources. When performing a row merge, selecting one of the sources includes selecting one of the source column contents as the result column content. Concatenating the content comprises concatenating the string type data from the source columns for use as the result column content. Summing the content comprises summing the numerical data in the source column content as the result column content.","When performing a collection merge, selecting one of the sources includes selecting one of the collections as the result collection. Concatenating the content comprises adding the source collections items to the result collection.","Aspects of the invention may be implemented as a class of application programming interface routines. In an embodiment, MergeWorkerBase is the base abstract class, and different types of merges are implemented as different sub classes thereof. A RowMergeWorker class implements the logic of row merge. A CollectionMergeWorker class implements the logic of collection merge.","Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment, embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment illustrated in  is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover, the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, PoP devices, gaming consoles, programmable consumer electronics, mobile telephones, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The following examples further illustrate embodiments of the invention. The figures, description, and examples herein as well as elements not specifically described herein but within the scope of aspects of the invention constitute means for aggregating the metadata items from the catalog data into the merged catalog data.","The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise specified. That is, the operations may be performed in any order, unless otherwise specified, and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example, it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before, contemporaneously with, or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.","Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer-executable instructions. The computer-executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer-executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example, aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer-executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer-executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.","When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof, the articles \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201cthe,\u201d and \u201csaid\u201d are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.","Having described aspects of the invention in detail, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions, products, and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.","The following are exemplary business rules for aggregating content from multiple providers and from a single provider.","Video Aggregation among Multiple Providers","Partner A and Partner B have Movie A in their inventory, and they both provide the cover art and metadata for the movie. Even though the movie can be purchased\/downloaded from the two content providers, aspects of the invention provide a consistent experience to users for browsing the movie in the catalog described herein. For example, the cover art and its movie metadata only show up once the initial catalog browsing experience. When the user decides to purchase or download Movie A, the service presents the offers from both Partner A and Partner B and allows the user to choose from which partner to purchase.","An exemplary configuration for the business rules for aggregating the video catalog are shown below.","Interlinking the video from Partner A and Partner B\n\n","Partner A provides two similar law-related television shows. To help the user find the desired show, the service displays all episodes for both shows. The business rules to implement these actions are based on the following pattern: the video title starts with \u201cLaw\u201d and the video type is either a series, mini-series, limited series, or movie.","Exemplary video fundamentals data are shown below as an extensible markup language (XML) file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0080"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<!--*****************************************************************************-->"},{"entry":"<!-- This xml defines video fundamentals."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"-->"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<!-- WARNING: The ids defined in this file will be persisted."},{"entry":"-->"},{"entry":"<!--*****************************************************************************-->"},{"entry":"<VideoFundamentals xmlns:xsi=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema-instance\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<RoleList>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c1\u201d name=\u201cActor\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c2\u201d name=\u201cDirector\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c3\u201d name=\u201cGuest Star\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c4\u201d name=\u201cHost\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c5\u201d name=\u201cProducer\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Role id=\u201c6\u201d name=\u201cWriter\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RoleList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoTypeList>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c1\u201d name=\u201cMovie\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c2\u201d name=\u201cLimited Series\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c3\u201d name=\u201cMiniseries\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c4\u201d name=\u201cSerial\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c5\u201d name=\u201cSeries\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c6\u201d name=\u201cShort Film\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VideoType id=\u201c7\u201d name=\u201cSpecial\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/VideoTypeList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<FlagList>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c1\u201dname=\u201cCC\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c2\u201d name=\u201cStereo\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c3\u201d name=\u201cRepeat\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c4\u201d name=\u201cNew\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c5\u201d name=\u201cLive\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c6\u201d name=\u201cTape\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c7\u201d name=\u201cDelayed\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c8\u201d name=\u201cSubtitled\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c9\u201d name=\u201cPremiere\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c10\u201d name=\u201cSeason Premiere\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c11\u201d name=\u201cSeries Premiere\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c12\u201d name=\u201cFinale\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c13\u201d name=\u201cSeason Finale\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c14\u201d name=\u201cSeries Finale\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c15\u201d name=\u201cDolby\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c16\u201d name=\u201cDolby Digital\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c17\u201d name=\u201cJoined In Progress\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c18\u201d name=\u201cCable in the Classroom\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c19\u201d name=\u201cSecondary Audio\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c20\u201d name=\u201cBlackout\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c21\u201d name=\u201c3D\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c22\u201d name=\u201cDVS\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c23\u201d name=\u201cMini Series\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c24\u201d name=\u201cLive Sports\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c25\u201d name=\u201cMade for TV\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c26\u201d name=\u201cStandard aspect ratio 4:3 (1:33:1)\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c27\u201d name=\u201cHDTV aspect ratio 16:9 (1:85:1 )\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c28\u201d name=\u201cCinemaScope aspect ratio 2:35:1\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c29\u201d name=\u201cHigh Definition TV format. Program that is broadcast"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"in 1080p (1920x1080)\u201d \/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c30\u201d name=\u201cHigh Definition TV format. Program that is broadcast"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"in 720p (1280x720) or 1080i\u201d \/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c31\u201d name=\u201cEnhanced Definition TV format program that is"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"broadcast in 480p using progressive scanning at a 640x480 high pixel resolution\u201d \/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Flag id=\u201c32\u201d name=\u201cStandard Definition TV format program that is"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"broadcast in 480i using interlaced scanning at a 640x480 high pixel resolution\u201d \/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/FlagList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<CategoryList>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cRoot\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c1\u201d name=\u201cGeneral\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c100\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c101\u201d name=\u201cAction\/Adventure\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c102\u201d name=\u201cComedy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c103\u201d name=\u201cDocumentary\/Bio\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c104\u201d name=\u201cDrama\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c105\u201d name=\u201cEducational\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c106\u201d name=\u201cFamily\/Children\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c107\u201d name=\u201cMovies\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c108\u201d name=\u201cMusic\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c109\u201d name=\u201cNews\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c110\u201d name=\u201cSci-Fi\/Fantasy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c111\u201d name=\u201cSoap\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c112\u201d name=\u201cSports\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c1\u201d id=\u201c113\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c2\u201d name=\u201cEducational\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c200\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c201\u201d name=\u201cArts\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c202\u201d name=\u201cBiography\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c203\u201d name=\u201cDocumentary\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c204\u201d name=\u201cHow-to\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c205\u201d name=\u201cScience\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c2\u201d id=\u201c206\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c3\u201d name=\u201cKids\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c300\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c301\u201d name=\u201cAdventure\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c302\u201d name=\u201cAnimated\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c303\u201d name=\u201cComedy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c304\u201d name=\u201cEducational\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c305\u201d name=\u201cSpecial\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c3\u201d id=\u201c306\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c4\u201d name=\u201cLifestyle\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c400\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c401\u201d name=\u201cAdults Only\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c402\u201d name=\u201cCollectibles\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c403\u201d name=\u201cCooking\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c404\u201d name=\u201cExercise\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c405\u201d name=\u201cHealth\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c406\u201d name=\u201cHome and Garden\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c407\u201d name=\u201cOutdoors\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c408\u201d name=\u201cReligious\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c4\u201d id=\u201c409\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c5\u201d name=\u201cMovies\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c500\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c501\u201d name=\u201cAction and Adventure\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c502\u201d name=\u201cAdults Only\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c503\u201d name=\u201cChildren\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c504\u201d name=\u201cComedy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c505\u201d name=\u201cDrama\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c506\u201d name=\u201cFantasy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c507\u201d name=\u201cHorror\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c508\u201d name=\u201cMusical\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c509\u201d name=\u201cMystery\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c510\u201d name=\u201cRomance\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c511\u201d name=\u201cScience Fiction\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c512\u201d name=\u201cSuspense\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c513\u201d name=\u201cWestern\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c5\u201d id=\u201c514\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c6\u201d name=\u201cNews\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c600\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c601\u201d name=\u201cBusiness\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c602\u201d name=\u201cCurrent Events\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c603\u201d name=\u201cInterview\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c604\u201d name=\u201cPublic Affairs\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c605\u201d name=\u201cSports\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c606\u201d name=\u201cWeather\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c6\u201d id=\u201c607\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c7\u201d name=\u201cSeries\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c700\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c701\u201d name=\u201cAction\/Adventure\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c702\u201d name=\u201cChildren\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c703\u201d name=\u201cComedy\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c704\u201d name=\u201cCooking\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c705\u201d name=\u201cDrama\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c706\u201d name=\u201cEducational\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c707\u201d name=\u201cGame Show\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c708\u201d name=\u201cHow-to\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c709\u201d name=\u201cMusic\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c710\u201d name=\u201cReality\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c711\u201d name=\u201cSoap Opera\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c712\u201d name=\u201cTalk Show\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c713\u201d name=\u201cTravel\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c7\u201d id=\u201c714\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c8\u201d name=\u201cSpecial\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c800\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c801\u201d name=\u201cAwards\/Event\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c802\u201d name=\u201cHoliday\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c803\u201d name=\u201cMusic\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c804\u201d name=\u201cReligious\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c805\u201d name=\u201cSports\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c8\u201d id=\u201c806\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c0\u201d id=\u201c9\u201d name=\u201cSports\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c900\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c901\u201d name=\u201cBaseball\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c902\u201d name=\u201cBasketball\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c903\u201d name=\u201cBoxing\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c904\u201d name=\u201cFootball\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c905\u201d name=\u201cGolf \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c906\u201d name=\u201cHockey\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c907\u201d name=\u201cOutdoor\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c908\u201d name=\u201cRacing\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c909\u201d name=\u201cSoccer\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c910\u201d name=\u201cTennis\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Category parentId=\u201c9\u201d id=\u201c911\u201d name=\u201cOther\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/CategoryList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingList>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c0\u201d name=\u201cMicrosoft Rating\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c1\u201d name=\u201cAll\u201d description=\u201cFor every one\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c2\u201d name=\u201c6+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c3\u201d name=\u201c12+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c4\u201d name=\u201c13+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c5\u201d name=\u201c14+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c6\u201d name=\u201c15+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c7\u201d name=\u201c17+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c8\u201d name=\u201c18+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c9\u201d name=\u201c19+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c10\u201d name=\u201cR\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c11\u201d name=\u201cX\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c100\u201d name=\u201cMPAA Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201cus\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c101\u201d name=\u201cG\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c102\u201d name=\u201cPG\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c103\u201d name=\u201cPG-13\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c104\u201d name=\u201cR\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c105\u201d name=\u201cNC-17\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c106\u201d name=\u201cX\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c107\u201d name=\u201cNR\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c108\u201d name=\u201cAO\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10001\u201d name=\u201cAdult Situations\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10002\u201d name=\u201cBrief Nudity\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10003\u201d name=\u201cGraphic Language\u201d description=\u201c\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10004\u201d name=\u201cGraphic Violence\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10005\u201d name=\u201cLanguage\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10006\u201d name=\u201cMild Violence\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10007\u201d name=\u201cNudity\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10008\u201d name=\u201cRape\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10009\u201d name=\u201cStrong Sexual Content\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"description=\u201c\u201d \/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<Descriptor id=\u201c10010\u201d name=\u201cViolence\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c200\u201d name=\u201cStar Rating\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c201\u201d name=\u201c0\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c202\u201d name=\u201c0H\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c203\u201d name=\u201c1\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c204\u201d name=\u201c1H\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c205\u201d name=\u201c2\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c206\u201d name=\u201c2H\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c207\u201d name=\u201c3\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c208\u201d name=\u201c3H\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c209\u201d name=\u201c4\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c300\u201d name=\u201cUS Television Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201cus\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c301\u201d name=\u201cTV-G\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c302\u201d name=\u201cTV-14\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c303\u201d name=\u201cTV-MA\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c304\u201d name=\u201cTV-Y\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c305\u201d name=\u201cTV-Y7\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c400\u201d name=\u201cUK Television Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201cuk\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c401\u201d name=\u201cU\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c402\u201d name=\u201cUC\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c403\u201d name=\u201cPG\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c404\u201d name=\u201c12\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c405\u201d name=\u201c15\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c406\u201d name=\u201c18\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c407\u201d name=\u201cR18\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c500\u201d name=\u201cKR Television Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201ckr\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c501\u201d name=\u201cALL\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c502\u201d name=\u201cSEVEN\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c503\u201d name=\u201cTWELVE\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c504\u201d name=\u201cFIFTEEN\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c505\u201d name=\u201cNINETEEN\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c600\u201d name=\u201cCanada Television Rating\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"countryCode=\u201cca\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c601\u201d name=\u201c18+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c602\u201d name=\u201c14+\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c603\u201d name=\u201cPG\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c604\u201d name=\u201cG\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c605\u201d name=\u201cC8\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c606\u201d name=\u201cC\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c700\u201d name=\u201cDE Television Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201cde\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c701\u201d name=\u201cALL\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c702\u201d name=\u201cSIX\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c703\u201d name=\u201cTWELVE\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c704\u201d name=\u201cSIXTEEN\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c705\u201d name=\u201cADULTS\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingType id=\u201c800\u201d name=\u201cFR Television Rating\u201d countryCode=\u201cfr\u201d>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c801\u201d name=\u201cCAT1\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c802\u201d name=\u201cCAT2\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c803\u201d name=\u201cCAT3\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c804\u201d name=\u201cCAT4\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RatingValue id=\u201c805\u201d name=\u201cCAT5\u201d description=\u201c\u201d \/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingType>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/RatingList>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/VideoFundamentals>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"An exemplary video catalog schema is shown below.","Video Catalog Element",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Video Catalog","Video catalog root element. This element has an"]},{"entry":[{},"attribute schemaVersion and includes Contributors"]},{"entry":[{},"list, Video list, Video Group list, Series list,"]},{"entry":[{},"Virtual channels list, Poster list, Trailer list,"]},{"entry":[{},"Supplementary file list, and Offer list"]},{"entry":["ContributorList","Define a list of contributors available. This"]},{"entry":[{},"element has no attribute but includes one or many"]},{"entry":[{},"Contributor element(s). Contributor is a person"]},{"entry":[{},"who makes a contribution to the video content."]},{"entry":[{},"Examples are actor, actresses, writer, producer or"]},{"entry":[{},"director. Please refer to the Contributor element"]},{"entry":[{},"for more details"]},{"entry":["VideoList","Define a list of video available. This element has"]},{"entry":[{},"no attribute but includes one or many Video"]},{"entry":[{},"elements. Video is unique piece of content such as"]},{"entry":[{},"Movie, TV episode, Music Video or User"]},{"entry":[{},"Generated Content"]},{"entry":["VideoGroupList","Define a list of Video Groups. This element has no"]},{"entry":[{},"attribute but includes one or many Video Group"]},{"entry":[{},"elements."]},{"entry":["SeriesList","Define a list of TV Series. This element has no"]},{"entry":[{},"attribute but includes one or many Series elements"]},{"entry":["VChannelList","Define a list of video channels available. This"]},{"entry":[{},"element has no attribute but includes one or many"]},{"entry":[{},"VChannel element(s)."]},{"entry":["PosterList","Define a list of movie poster image files associates"]},{"entry":[{},"with Video, TV series, or TV season.. This"]},{"entry":[{},"element has no attribute but includes one or many"]},{"entry":[{},"Poster Element element(s)."]},{"entry":["TrailerList","Define a list of video trailer files associates with"]},{"entry":[{},"Video, TV series, or TV season. This element has"]},{"entry":[{},"no attribute but includes one or many Trailer"]},{"entry":[{},"element(s)."]},{"entry":["SupplementaryFileList","Define a list of supplementary files associates with"]},{"entry":[{},"Video, TV series, or TV season. This element has"]},{"entry":[{},"no attribute but includes one or many"]},{"entry":[{},"SupplementaryFile element(s)."]},{"entry":["OfferList","Define a list of offers associates with Video, TV"]},{"entry":[{},"series, or TV season. This element has no attribute"]},{"entry":[{},"but includes one or many Offer element(s)."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Video element defines a unique piece of video content, such as a Movie, a TV episode, a Music Video or a User Generated Content (UGC). Every unique video content will be a unique Video element. If same content is released in different format (such as HD vs. SD or different languages), each format will be a unique \u201cVideo Instance\u201d element. However, they will all belong to the same \u201cVideo\u201d parent element.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0084"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Video",{},"TVideo","Video is unique piece of content. For"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"example, a Movie, a TV episode, a Music"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video or a User-Generated Content (UGC)"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video. This ID should uniquely identify a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video, and should not be changed or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"recycled to assign to a different Video."]},{"entry":[{},"CRID","Char(200)","TV-anytime CRID for TV program."]},{"entry":[{},"ISAN","Min:","The ISAN (International Standard"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Char(21)","Audiovisual Number) is a voluntary"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Max:","numbering system for the identification"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Char(33)","of audiovisual works. It provides a unique,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"internationally recognized and permanent"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"reference number for each audiovisual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"work registered in the ISAN system"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For example:"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"1234-A678-9012-3456-7-B111-2222-8"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"First 16 digits + 1 checksum digit are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"required in an embodiment."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"The rest of 8 digits + 1 checksum digit"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"are optional version number"]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(100)","Full title for the Video"]},{"entry":[{},"reducedTitle","Char(50)","Short title for the Video"]},{"entry":[{},"subTitle","Char(100)","Sub title for the Video"]},{"entry":[{},"desc","Char(4000)","Full description for the video"]},{"entry":[{},"reducedDesc","Char(100)","Short description for the video"]},{"entry":[{},"videoTypeID","Integer","Unique ID assigned by the service for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the Video Type."]},{"entry":[{},"earliestAvailableDate","DateTime","Date that the video content was"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"available for viewing."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For TV episode, this is the original air"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"date - date when the episode is first aired."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For movie, this is the release date when the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"movie is available for viewing in theater"]},{"entry":[{},"durationSecs","Integer","Total run time for the video in seconds"]},{"entry":[{},"productionCompany","Char(100)","Production Studio or Network"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For TV episode, it is the name of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Network"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For Movies, it is the name of the studio"]},{"entry":[{},"licensorID","Integer","Unique ID for licensor"]},{"entry":[{},"licensorType","Char(100)","Movie Studio, TV Studio, or distributor"]},{"entry":[{},"copyright","Char(255)","Copyright display text. For example,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cCopyright @2004 Provider A\u201d"]},{"entry":["VideoInstanceList",{},"TVideoInstanceList","A collection of Video Instance for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cVideo Instance\u201d is a different format or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"version or language for a given Video."]},{"entry":["RoleList",{},"TVideoRoleList","A collection of Role for the Video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Role contains the cast and character"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"information for the video"]},{"entry":["CategoryList",{},"TVideoCategoryList","A list of category that the video is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For TV series or episode, for association"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"with the sub-category under \u201cGeneral\u201d (i.e."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in the range of 100)."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For Movies, for association with the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sub-category under \u201cMovie\u201d (i.e. in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"range of 500)."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For Music Video, for association with"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the category under \u201cMusic Video\u201d (i.e. in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the range of 1100)."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For Promo content, for association with"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the sub-category under \u201cGeneral\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cMovies\u201d or \u201cMusic Video\u201d (i.e. in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"range of 100, 500, or 1100)"]},{"entry":["RatingList",{},"TRatingList","A list of rating associates with the video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For example, MPAA or editorial rating."]},{"entry":["FlagList",{},"TFlagList","A list of attribute associates with the video."]},{"entry":["TagList",{},"TTagList","A collection of Tag. Tag defines a list of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201ckeyword\u201d associate with the video, and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is used to facilitate search."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Video Instance is a different format or version or language of a Video (i.e. content is the same).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0086"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VideoInstance",{},"TVideoDataFile","Contains information of the Video Instance"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Instance. This ID should uniquely"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identify a Video Instance, and should not"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"be changed or recycled to assign to a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"different Video Instance."]},{"entry":[{},"isDRM","Boolean","Flag indicate whether the content is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"DRM or not"]},{"entry":[{},"ISANVersionNumber","Char(11)","Optional version number of ISAN"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(Format in xxxx-xxxx-x)"]},{"entry":[{},"spokenLanguage","Char(100)","Spoken language for the video"]},{"entry":["AudioFormat",{},"TAudioFormat","Audio Format information for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Instance."]},{"entry":["VideoFormat",{},"TVideoFormat","Video Format information for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Instance."]},{"entry":["VideoFileList",{},"TVideoFileList","A collection of VideoFile for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"VideoInstance."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"VideoFile is the physical video file"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"for downloading\/streaming."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Generally, each VideoInstance will have"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"only 1 VideoFile element, however, in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"cases when the file size for a given"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"VideoInstance is too big, it might break"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"into multiple small files, result in multiple"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"VideoFile elements"]},{"entry":["AdGroupList",{},"TAdGroup","A collection of AdGroup element."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"AdGroup is only used in Ad-sponsored"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video content."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"VideoFile element contains information of the physical video file (e.g. missionimpossible.wmv) for downloading\/streaming. Generally, each VideoInstance will have only one VideoFile element, however, in cases when the file size for a given VideoInstance is too big (e.g. Titanic HD version), might break into multiple small files, result in multiple VideoFile element. For details on data relationship, please refer to the Video Catalog Data Relationship Diagram.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0088"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VideoFile",{},"TVideoDataFile","Contains information of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"physical video file to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"download\/stream"]},{"entry":[{},"uuid","GUID","Partner assigned unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identifier of the physical"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video file"]},{"entry":[{},"url","Char(10)","URL of the physical video file"]},{"entry":[{},"size","Big Integer","Size (in bytes) of the physical"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video file"]},{"entry":[{},"durationSecs","Integer","Run time of the physical"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video file (in secs)"]},{"entry":["Hash",{},"THash","Hash"]},{"entry":[{},"type","Char(100)","Hash type. By default, it's"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"MD5"]},{"entry":[{},"value","Char(100)","Hash value"]},{"entry":["MarkerList",{},"TMarkerList","A collection of Marker"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"element. Marker is only used"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in Ad-sponsored Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"content."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"AudioFormat element contains audio format information for the video.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0090"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["AudioFormat",{},"TAudioFormat","Contains audio format"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"info"]},{"entry":[{},"encoding","Enum","Enum defined by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"service for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Audio Encoding Type."]},{"entry":[{},"channel","String","Mono or Stereo"]},{"entry":[{},"samplingRate","Integer","Sampling Rate in Hz"]},{"entry":[{},"CC","Boolean","Closed caption flag"]},{"entry":[{},"subtitle","String","Subtitle language."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"If there is no subtitle"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"available, set this field to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"empty string, otherwise,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"set this to language"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the subtitle"]},{"entry":[{},"bitRate","Integer","Bit rate for the audio"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"VideoFormat element contains video format information for the video.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VideoFormat",{},"TVideoFormat","Contains video format info"]},{"entry":[{},"definition","Enum","Enum defined by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"service for the definition"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"format."]},{"entry":[{},"aspectRatio","Enum","Enum defined by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"service for the Aspect"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Ratio."]},{"entry":[{},"resolutionX","Integer","Resolution-X"]},{"entry":[{},"resolutionY","Integer","Resolution-Y"]},{"entry":[{},"encoding","Enum","Enum defined by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"service for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Encoding Type."]},{"entry":[{},"bitRate","Integer","Bit rate for the video"]},{"entry":[{},"frame","Integer","Frame\/sec"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Series element contains information for a TV series such as season, episode information etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Attribute Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Series",{},"TSeries","TV Series data"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identifier for the Series. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID should uniquely identify a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Series, and should not be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"changed or recycled to assign"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to a different Series"]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(100)","Series title."]},{"entry":[{},"desc","Char(4000)","Full description for the Series"]},{"entry":[{},"numberOfSeason","Integer","Total number of season for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"series."]},{"entry":[{},"IsOrderBySeason","Boolean","Flag indicating whether the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"series is order by season or not."]},{"entry":["Season",{},"TSeason","Season data for the TV series"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identifier for the TV Series"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Season. This ID should"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"uniquely identify a TV Series"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"season, and should not be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"changed or recycled to assign"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to a different TV Series Season"]},{"entry":[{},"seasonNumber","Integer","Season number."]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(100)","Series title for the season."]},{"entry":[{},"isComplete","Boolean","Flag indicating whether the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"season is complete and all"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"episodes are ready to download"]},{"entry":[{},"episodeFrequency","Char(100)","Frequency for new episodes."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Examples are Daily, weekly or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"monthly"]},{"entry":["Episode",{},"TEpisode","TV Episode Data."]},{"entry":[{},"videoID","Integer","Partner assigned unique ID for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the TV Episode. This ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"should maps to the ID defined"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in the VideoList element node"]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(100)","Episode Title"]},{"entry":[{},"episodeNumber","Integer","Episode Number"]},{"entry":[{},"seasonID","Integer","Partner assigned unique ID for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the Season. This ID should"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"maps in the ID defined in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Season element node"]},{"entry":[{},"primeTimeFlag","Boolean","Flag indicating whether the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"episode is broadcast in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"PrimeTime or Not"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Video Group is for grouping purposes. Below are a few scenario using Video Group for grouping\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0106"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute","Data",{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VideoGroup",{},"TVideoGroup","Video Group is used for grouping purposes."]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Group. This ID should uniquely"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identify a Video Group, and should not be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"changed or recycled to assign to a different"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Group"]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(100)","Video Group Title."]},{"entry":[{},"type","Char(100)","Type of the video group, explains why the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"videos are grouped together. For example,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cRelated Video\u201d"]},{"entry":["VideoList",{},"TVideoRef","Define a list of Video available in this video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"group"]},{"entry":[{},"VideoID","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video. This ID should maps in the ID defined"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in the VideoList element node"]},{"entry":["VideoInstanceList",{},"TVideoInstanceRef","Define a list of video instance available in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"this video group"]},{"entry":[{},"VideoInstanceID","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video instance. This ID should maps in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID defined in the VideoInstance element"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"node"]},{"entry":["SeriesList",{},"TSeriesRef","Define a list of Series available in this video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"group"]},{"entry":[{},"SeriesID","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"series. This ID should maps in the ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"defined in the Series element node"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Trailer element enables provider to associate video trailers to a Video (movies or TV episode), a TV series, a TV Series Season, a Video group or a Video Instance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0108"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Trailer",{},"TTrailer","Video Trailer Data"]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementType","Enum","Type of element that the video trailer"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is associated with. For example, a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video trailer can be associated to a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"TV Series, TV season or a particular"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"TV Episode or movie, or a Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Instance etc."]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementId","Integer","Element ID that the video trailer is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with. The type of ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(whether it is a Series ID, Season"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID, Video ID or Video Instance ID) is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depended on the associateElementType."]},{"entry":[{},"uuid","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the video trailer file"]},{"entry":[{},"url","Char(1024)","URL of the video trailer file"]},{"entry":[{},"size","Big Integer","Size (in bytes) of the video trailer file"]},{"entry":[{},"durationSecs","Integer","Run time of the video trailer file (in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"secs)"]},{"entry":[{},"ranking","Integer","Ranking of the video trailer in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ascending order, where 1 being the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"first trailer for displaying on the UI"]},{"entry":["AudioFormat",{},"TAudioFormat","Contains the Audio Format"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"information for the video trailer"]},{"entry":["VideoFormat",{},"TVideoFormat","contains the Video Format"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"information for the video trailer"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Poster element enables provider to associate poster image files to a Video (movies or TV episode), a TV series, a Season of a TV series, a Video group or a Video Instance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0110"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Poster",{},"TPoster","Poster image Data"]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementType","Enum","Type of element that the poster image"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is associated with. A poster image"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"can be associated to a TV Series, TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"season or a particular TV Episode or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"movie etc."]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementId","Integer","Element ID that the poster image is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with. The type of ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(whether it is a Series ID, Season"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID, Video ID or Video Instance ID) is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depended on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"AssociateElementType."]},{"entry":[{},"uuid","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the poster image file"]},{"entry":[{},"url","Char(1024)","URL of the poster image file"]},{"entry":[{},"size","Integer","Size (in bytes) of the image file"]},{"entry":["ImageFormat",{},"TImageFormat","Image Format information for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"poster."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"ImageFormat element contains image format information for poster or supplementary image file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0112"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ImageFormat",{},"TImageFormat","Contains information"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"of the image format info"]},{"entry":[{},"formatType","Enum","Enum assigned by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"service for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Encoding Type."]},{"entry":[{},"width","Integer","Image width (in pixels)"]},{"entry":[{},"height","Integer","Image height (in pixels)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Offer element enables provider to associate offer to a Video (movies or TV episode), a TV series, a Season of a TV series, a Video group or a Video Instance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0114"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"Data",{}]},{"entry":["Element Name","Attribute Name","Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Offer",{},"TOffer","Contains offer information"]},{"entry":[{},"offerId","Integer","Unique ID will be used for requesting"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"fulfillment"]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementType","Enum","Type of element that the offer is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with. For example, an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"offer can be associated to a TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Series, TV season or a particular TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Episode or movie etc. For example,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"if the network wants to associate an"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"offer for HD version of episode 3 for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a particular series during a particular"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Season 1, it can be done by setting"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"this field to \u201cVideoInstane\u201d, and set"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the \u201cAssociateElementID\u201d to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Video Instance ID of the series"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"season 1 episode 3."]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementId","Integer","Element ID that the offer is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with. The type of ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(whether it is a Series ID, Season"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID, Video ID or Video Instance ID) is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depended on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"AssociateElementType."]},{"entry":[{},"offerType","TUsage","Type of offering. Examples are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Download, Streaming or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Subscription"]},{"entry":[{},"priceRetail","Decimal","Retail price for the offer."]},{"entry":[{},"priceWholesale","Decimal","Wholesale price for the offer. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"price may be the wholesale price for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a Video, Video Instance, a TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Series, or a TV Season, and it is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depended on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associateElementType specific for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the offer."]},{"entry":[{},"startDateTime","DateTime","GMT date time that the offer"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"becomes available"]},{"entry":[{},"endDateTime","DateTime","GMT date time that the offer expires"]},{"entry":[{},"territoryCode","Char(3)","Country code that the video is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"available for download"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"The territoryCode is a 3-letter"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"country code as derived from ISO"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"3166"]},{"entry":[{},"corporateCode","Char(100)","Content Provider Corporate ID"]},{"entry":["Promotion",{},{},"Promotion Info"]},{"entry":[{},"promotionDisplayText","Char(500)","Internal Use only"]},{"entry":[{},"promotionCode","Char(25)","Internal Use only"]},{"entry":[{},"promotionPRice","Decimal","Internal Use only"]},{"entry":[{},"promotionStartDateTime","DateTime","Internal Use only"]},{"entry":[{},"promotionEndDateTime","DateTime","Internal Use only"]},{"entry":["AssociateElChildElment",{},{},"This is only applicable to Season,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Series offer in an embodiment. It"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"includes a list of Video Instance"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"element ID that the season or series"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"offer is associated with."]},{"entry":[{},"id","integer","Video Instance Element ID that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"offer is associated with."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For example, the HD version of a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"particular series Season 1 is going"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to sell for wholesale price $19.99."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"First, set the wholesale price to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201c19.99\u201d, then set the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associateElementType to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cTVSeasonHD\u201d, set the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u201cAssociateElementID\u201d to the Season"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID of Season 1,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"and then add the list of Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Instance IDs for all HD episodes in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Season 1 to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"AssociateChildElement node"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"SupplementaryFile element enables provider to associate any supplementary files that are non-poster, non-trailer to the Video. Examples are: Screenshots for the video, licensing agreement files, attribution files etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0116"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element Name","Attribute Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["SupplementaryFile",{},"TSupplementaryFile","SupplementaryFile element enables"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"provider to associate any"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"supplementary files that are non-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"poster, non-trailer to a Video, Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Instance, TV Series, TV Season,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Channel etc"]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementType","Enum","Type of element that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"supplementary file is associated"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"with. A supplementary file can be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated to a TV Series, TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"season or a particular TV Episode or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"movie etc."]},{"entry":[{},"associateElementId","Integer","Element ID that the supplementary"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"file is associated with. The type of ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(whether it is a Series ID, Season"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ID, Video ID or Video Instance ID) is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"depended on the AssociateElementType."]},{"entry":[{},"uuid","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the supplementary file"]},{"entry":[{},"contentType","Enum","Enum defined by the service for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"supported content type for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"supplementary file."]},{"entry":[{},"fileType","Enum","Enum defined by the service for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"supported file type for supplementary"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"file."]},{"entry":[{},"url","Char(1024)","URL of the supplementary file"]},{"entry":[{},"size","Integer","Size (in bytes) of the supplementary"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"file"]},{"entry":[{},"durationSecs","Integer","For supplementary file that is in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"video format, this is run time of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"physical video file."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For non-video supplementary file,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"leave this blank"]},{"entry":["AudioFormat",{},"TAudioFormat","For supplementary file that is in video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"format, this element contains the Audio"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Format information for the video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For non-video supplementary file,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"leave out this element"]},{"entry":["VideoFormat",{},"TVideoFormat","For supplementary file that is in video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"format, this element contains the Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Format information for the video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For non-video supplementary file,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"leave out this element"]},{"entry":["ImageFormat",{},"TImageFormt","For supplementary file that is image,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"this element contains the Image"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Format information."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"For non-image supplementary file,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"leave out this element"]},{"entry":["Hash",{},"THash","Hash"]},{"entry":[{},"type","Char(100)","Hash type. By default, it's MD5"]},{"entry":[{},"value","Char(100)","Hash value"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Category contains categories\/genre information for Video content. You can associate multiple categories to a Video. For example, for a Video that is \u201cRomantic Comedy\u201d, you can associate two Category IDs to it\u2014\u201cRomance\u201d and \u201cComedy\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0118"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Category",{},"TCategoryRef","Video category\/genre. Category is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"defined into 2 level. A video can"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associate to first level, second"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"level or both. A video can also be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"associated with multiple categories."]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Unique Category ID assigned"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"by the service."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Role contains the cast and character information for the video.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0120"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute","Data",{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Role",{},"TRole",{}]},{"entry":[{},"roleID","Integer","Unique ID assigned by the service"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"for the Role."]},{"entry":[{},"contributorID","Integer","Partner assigned unique ID for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contributor. This ID should maps in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the ID defined in the Contributor"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"element node"]},{"entry":[{},"character","Char","Name of the character"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(50)",{}]},{"entry":[{},"ranking","Integer","Role ranking in ascending order,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"where 1 being the most important"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Role in the video"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Flag contains attribute information associated with the video.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0122"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Flag",{},"TFlagRef","Attribute associates with the video."]},{"entry":[{},"ID","Integer","Unique ID assigned by the service for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the Video Flag."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Rating contains parental rating information associated with the video. Multiple ratings can be associated to a given video",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0124"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute","Data",{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rating",{},"TRating","Rating associates with the video."]},{"entry":[{},"RatingValueID","Integer","Rating Value ID assigned by"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the service."]},{"entry":[{},"RatingDescriptorID","Integer","Rating Descriptor ID"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"assigned by the service."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Contributor contains the actor\/actress\/cast info.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0126"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Contributor",{},"TContributor","Contributor is a human being"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or animal who makes"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"contribution to the video content."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Examples are actor, actresses,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"writer, producer or director."]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"identifier for the contributor."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"This ID should uniquely identify"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"a contributor, and should not be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"changed or recycled to assign"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to a different contributor."]},{"entry":[{},"fName","Char(50)","First name of the contributor. If"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the contributor is an animal, this"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"is the name of the animal"]},{"entry":[{},"mName","Char(50)","Middle name of the contributor"]},{"entry":[{},"lName","Char(50)","Last name of the contributor"]},{"entry":[{},"prefix","Char(50)","Prefix for the contributor."]},{"entry":[{},"suffix","Char(50)","Suffix for the contributor."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"VChannel is the Virtual video channel, it can be a traditional network channel or a virtual channel defined by provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0128"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00020","num":"00020"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VChannel",{},"TVChannel","Virtual video channel. Virtual video channel"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"can be a traditional network channel or a"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"virtual channel defined by provider"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Partner assigned unique identifier for the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"virtual video channel. This ID should"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"uniquely identify a video channel, and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"should not be changed or recycled to assign"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to a different virtual channel."]},{"entry":[{},"title","Char(50)","Full display name for the Virtual Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"channel"]},{"entry":[{},"reducedTitle","Char(20)","Short display name for the Virtual Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"channel"]},{"entry":[{},"desc","Char(4000)","Full description for the Virtual Video channel"]},{"entry":[{},"reducedDesc","Char(1000)","Short description for the Virtual Video"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"channel"]},{"entry":["NetworkLogo",{},"TNetworkLogo","Network Logo Data"]},{"entry":[{},"url","Char(1024)","URL of the Network Logo image file"]},{"entry":[{},"size","Integer","Size (in bytes) of the image file"]},{"entry":["ImageFormat",{},"TImageFormat","Image Format information for the video."]},{"entry":["Video",{},"TVideoRef","Define a list of videos available in this"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"channel"]},{"entry":[{},"VideoID","Integer","Partner assigned unique ID for the video."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"This ID should maps in the ID defined in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the VideoList element node"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Marker contains position information on inserting ads. It is used in Ad-sponsored Video content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0130"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00021","num":"00021"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Marker",{},"TMarker","Position to insert Ads"]},{"entry":[{},"name","Char(100)","Marker name"]},{"entry":[{},"type","Char(100)","Marker type"]},{"entry":[{},"startMillis","Long","Start millisecond"]},{"entry":[{},"durationMillis","Long","Duration in millisecond"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Tag defines a list of \u201ckeyword\u201d associate with the video, and is used to facilitate search.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0132"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00022","num":"00022"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Tag",{},"TTag","Tag"]},{"entry":[{},{},"namespace",{},"Tag namespace"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"AdGroup contains the ad information for Ad-sponsored Video content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0134"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00023","num":"00023"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Attribute",{},{}]},{"entry":["Name","Name","Data Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["AdGroup",{},"TAdGroup","Ad group information"]},{"entry":[{},"id","Integer","Ad Group ID"]},{"entry":[{},"Manifest","Char(1024)","Ad Group Manifest Url"]},{"entry":[{},"Url"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0135"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00024","num":"00024"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Video Type ID","Video Type"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Movie"]},{"entry":["2","TV Episode in a Limited Series"]},{"entry":["3","TV Episode in a Mini-Series"]},{"entry":["4","TV Episode in a Serial"]},{"entry":["5","TV Episode in a Series"]},{"entry":["6","Short Film"]},{"entry":["7","Special"]},{"entry":["8","Video Podcast"]},{"entry":["9","Movie Trailer"]},{"entry":["10","Music Video"]},{"entry":["11","Sporting Event"]},{"entry":["12","User Generated Content\/Video"]},{"entry":["13","Music Video Sample Clip"]},{"entry":["14","TV Promo Sample Clip"]},{"entry":["15","Other Promo Content Clip"]},{"entry":["16","Games Trailer"]},{"entry":["17","Audio Podcast"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0136"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00025","num":"00025"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WMA","WMA"]},{"entry":[{},"Dolby","Dolby"]},{"entry":[{},"Dolby Digital","Dolby Digital"]},{"entry":[{},"DTS","DTS (DTS Coherent Acoustics)"]},{"entry":[{},"MP3","MP3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0137"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00026","num":"00026"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SD","Standard Definition"]},{"entry":[{},"HD","High-Def"]},{"entry":[{},"XD","XD"]},{"entry":[{},"ED","Enhanced Definition"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0138"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00027","num":"00027"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u20024:3","\u20024:3 (Standard)"]},{"entry":[{},"16:9","16:9 (High-Def)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u20021:37:1","\u20021:37:1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u20022:39:1","\u20022:39:1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u20021:37:1","\u20021:37:1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u20021:85:1","\u20021:85:1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0139"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00028","num":"00028"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Enumerated",{}]},{"entry":["Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["WMV","WMV"]},{"entry":["WMV HD","WMV HD"]},{"entry":["MPEG-4ASP","MPEG-4 ASP Video (3ivx, DivC, XviD) Digital)"]},{"entry":["H.264","MPEG-4 AVC (H.264, MainConcept, Nero Digital,"]},{"entry":[{},"QuickTime H.264, Sorenson AVC Pro codec, Vanguard"]},{"entry":[{},"Software Solutions, x264)"]},{"entry":["MPEG-1","MPEG-1 Video"]},{"entry":["MPEG-2","MPEG-2 Video"]},{"entry":["ASF","ASF"]},{"entry":["WAX","WAX"]},{"entry":["RealVideo","RealVideo"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0140"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00029","num":"00029"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Stream","Stream"]},{"entry":[{},"Download","Download"]},{"entry":[{},"Progressive DL","Progressive DL"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0141"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00030","num":"00030"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"JPG","JPEG"]},{"entry":[{},"GIF","GIF"]},{"entry":[{},"PNG","PNG"]},{"entry":[{},"TIF","TIF"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0142"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00031","num":"00031"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Enumerated",{}]},{"entry":["Type","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["VideoInstance","Video Instance"]},{"entry":["Video","Video"]},{"entry":["TVSeason","TV Season, includes all episodes in a season, either in"]},{"entry":[{},"HD or SD or XD)"]},{"entry":["TVSeasonHD","TV Season, but only includes episodes that are in HD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TVSeasonSD","TV Season, but only includes episodes that are in SD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TVSeasonXD","TV Season, but only includes episodes that are in XD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TVSeries","TV Series, includes all episodes in a series, either in HD"]},{"entry":[{},"or SD or XD"]},{"entry":["TVSeriesHD","TV Series,, but only includes episodes that are in HD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TVSeriesSD","TV Series,, but only includes episodes that are in SD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["TVSeriesXD","TV Series,, but only includes episodes that are in XD"]},{"entry":[{},"format"]},{"entry":["VChannel","Virtual Channel"]},{"entry":["VideoGroup","Video Group"]},{"entry":["Contributor","Contributor"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0143"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00032","num":"00032"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ScreenShot","Screen Shot"]},{"entry":[{},"Attribution","Attribution"]},{"entry":[{},"Licensing","Licensing"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0144"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00033","num":"00033"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Enumerated Type","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ImageFile","ImageFile"]},{"entry":[{},"VideoFile","VideoFile"]},{"entry":[{},"HTML","HTML"]},{"entry":[{},"XML","XML"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0145"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00034","num":"00034"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Main Category","SubCategory"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID","Name","ID","Name"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["100","General","101","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"102","Action\/Adventure"]},{"entry":[{},{},"103","Comedy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"104","Documentary\/Bio"]},{"entry":[{},{},"105","Drama"]},{"entry":[{},{},"106","Educational"]},{"entry":[{},{},"107","Family\/Children"]},{"entry":[{},{},"108","Movies"]},{"entry":[{},{},"109","Music"]},{"entry":[{},{},"110","News"]},{"entry":[{},{},"111","Sci-Fi\/Fantasy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"112","Soap"]},{"entry":[{},{},"113","Sports"]},{"entry":[{},{},"114","Other"]},{"entry":["200","Educational","201","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"202","Arts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"203","Biography"]},{"entry":[{},{},"204","Documentary"]},{"entry":[{},{},"205","How-to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"206","Science"]},{"entry":[{},{},"207","Other"]},{"entry":["300","Kids","301","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"302","Adventure"]},{"entry":[{},{},"303","Animated"]},{"entry":[{},{},"304","Comedy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"305","Educational"]},{"entry":[{},{},"306","Special"]},{"entry":[{},{},"307","Other"]},{"entry":["400","Lifestyle","401","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"403","Collectibles"]},{"entry":[{},{},"404","Cooking"]},{"entry":[{},{},"405","Exercise"]},{"entry":[{},{},"406","Health"]},{"entry":[{},{},"407","Home and Garden"]},{"entry":[{},{},"408","Outdoors"]},{"entry":[{},{},"409","Religious"]},{"entry":[{},{},"410","Other"]},{"entry":["500","Movies","501","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"502","Action"]},{"entry":[{},{},"504","Adventure"]},{"entry":[{},{},"505","Avant-garde\/Experimental"]},{"entry":[{},{},"506","Business"]},{"entry":[{},{},"507","Children's\/Family"]},{"entry":[{},{},"508","Comedy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"509","Comedy Drama"]},{"entry":[{},{},"510","Crime"]},{"entry":[{},{},"511","Culture & Society"]},{"entry":[{},{},"512","Dance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"513","Drama"]},{"entry":[{},{},"514","Education"]},{"entry":[{},{},"515","Epic"]},{"entry":[{},{},"516","Family & Personal Relationships"]},{"entry":[{},{},"517","Fantasy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"518","Film, TV & Radio"]},{"entry":[{},{},"519","Health & Fitness"]},{"entry":[{},{},"520","Historical Film"]},{"entry":[{},{},"521","History"]},{"entry":[{},{},"522","Horror"]},{"entry":[{},{},"523","Language & Literature"]},{"entry":[{},{},"524","Leisure Arts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"525","Music"]},{"entry":[{},{},"526","Musical"]},{"entry":[{},{},"527","Mystery"]},{"entry":[{},{},"528","Nature"]},{"entry":[{},{},"529","Romance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"530","Science & Technology"]},{"entry":[{},{},"531","Science Fiction"]},{"entry":[{},{},"532","Spirituality & Philosophy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"533","Sports & Recreation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"534","Spy Film"]},{"entry":[{},{},"535","Theater"]},{"entry":[{},{},"536","Thriller"]},{"entry":[{},{},"537","Travel"]},{"entry":[{},{},"538","Visual Arts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"539","War"]},{"entry":[{},{},"540","Western"]},{"entry":["600","News","601","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"602","Business"]},{"entry":[{},{},"603","Current Events"]},{"entry":[{},{},"604","Interview"]},{"entry":[{},{},"605","Public Affairs"]},{"entry":[{},{},"606","Sports"]},{"entry":[{},{},"607","Weather"]},{"entry":[{},{},"608","Other"]},{"entry":["700","Series","701","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"702","Action\/Adventure"]},{"entry":[{},{},"703","Children"]},{"entry":[{},{},"704","Comedy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"705","Cooking"]},{"entry":[{},{},"706","Drama"]},{"entry":[{},{},"707","Educational"]},{"entry":[{},{},"708","Game Show"]},{"entry":[{},{},"709","How-to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"710","Music"]},{"entry":[{},{},"711","Reality"]},{"entry":[{},{},"712","Soap Opera"]},{"entry":[{},{},"713","Talk Show"]},{"entry":[{},{},"714","Travel"]},{"entry":[{},{},"715","Other"]},{"entry":["800","Special","801","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"802","Awards\/Event"]},{"entry":[{},{},"803","Holiday"]},{"entry":[{},{},"804","Music"]},{"entry":[{},{},"805","Religious"]},{"entry":[{},{},"806","Sports"]},{"entry":[{},{},"807","Other"]},{"entry":["900","Sports","901","All"]},{"entry":[{},{},"902","Baseball"]},{"entry":[{},{},"903","Basketball"]},{"entry":[{},{},"904","Boxing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"905","Football"]},{"entry":[{},{},"906","Golf"]},{"entry":[{},{},"907","Hockey"]},{"entry":[{},{},"908","Outdoor"]},{"entry":[{},{},"909","Racing"]},{"entry":[{},{},"910","Soccer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"911","Tennis"]},{"entry":[{},{},"912","Other"]},{"entry":["1000","Clips","1001","UGC"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1002","Promo Content - TV"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1003","Promo Content - Movie"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1004","Promo Content"]},{"entry":["1100","Music","1101","Blues"]},{"entry":[{},"Video","1102","Jazz"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1103","Latin"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1104","Metal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1105","New Age"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1106","Oldies"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1107","Other"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1108","Pop"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1109","Rap &amp; Hip-Hop"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1110","Reggae"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1111","Religious"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1112","Rock"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1113","Soul and RB"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1114","Soundtracks"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1115","Spoken"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1116","Vocal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1117","World"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1118","Children"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1119","Classical"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1120","Comedy"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1121","Country"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1122","Dance"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1123","Easy Listening"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1124","Electronica"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1125","Folk"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1126","Holiday"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0146"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00035","num":"00035"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Role ID","Role Name"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Actor"]},{"entry":["2","Director"]},{"entry":["3","Guest Star"]},{"entry":["4","Host"]},{"entry":["5","Producer"]},{"entry":["6","Writer"]},{"entry":["7","Arranger"]},{"entry":["8","Artist"]},{"entry":["9","Composer"]},{"entry":["10","Conductor"]},{"entry":["11","Contributing Artist"]},{"entry":["12","Director of"]},{"entry":[{},"Photography"]},{"entry":["13","Editor"]},{"entry":["14","Engineer"]},{"entry":["15","Ensemble\/Orchestra"]},{"entry":["16","Executive Producer"]},{"entry":["17","Guest Artist"]},{"entry":["18","Hair and Make Up"]},{"entry":["19","Mixer"]},{"entry":["20","Performer"]},{"entry":["21","Post Production"]},{"entry":[{},"Effects"]},{"entry":["22","Production Designer"]},{"entry":["23","Soloist"]},{"entry":["24","Wardrobe Stylist"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0147"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00036","num":"00036"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Flag ID","Video Flag Attribute"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Premiere"]},{"entry":["2","Season Premiere"]},{"entry":["3","Series Premiere"]},{"entry":["4","Finale"]},{"entry":["5","Season Finale"]},{"entry":["6","Series Finale"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0148"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00037","num":"00037"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Rating",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"Type"},{"entry":["Rating ID","Rating Type","Rating ID",{},"value"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"rank",{}]},{"entry":["100","MPAA Rating","101","1","G"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","102","2","PG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"103","3","PG-13"]},{"entry":[{},{},"104","4","R"]},{"entry":[{},{},"105","5","NC-17"]},{"entry":[{},{},"106","6","X"]},{"entry":[{},{},"107","7","NR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"108","8","AO"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"name"]},{"entry":[{},"Descriptor","10001","Adult Situations"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10002","Brief Nudity"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10003","Graphic"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Language"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10004","Graphic Violence"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10005","Language"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10006","Mild Violence"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10007","Nudity"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10008","Rape"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10009","Strong Sexual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Content"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10010","Violence"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"rank"]},{"entry":["200","Star Rating","201","1","\u20020"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","202","2","\u20020H"]},{"entry":[{},{},"203","3","\u20021"]},{"entry":[{},{},"204","4","\u20021H"]},{"entry":[{},{},"205","5","\u20022"]},{"entry":[{},{},"206","6","\u20022H"]},{"entry":[{},{},"207","7","\u20023"]},{"entry":[{},{},"208","8","\u20023H"]},{"entry":[{},{},"209","9","\u20024"]},{"entry":["300","US Television","301","1","TV-G"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","302","2","TV-14"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","303","3","TV-MA"]},{"entry":[{},{},"304","4","TV-Y"]},{"entry":[{},{},"305","5","TV-Y7"]},{"entry":["400","UK Television","401","1","U"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","402","2","UC"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","403","3","PG"]},{"entry":[{},{},"404","4","12"]},{"entry":[{},{},"405","5","15"]},{"entry":[{},{},"406","5","18"]},{"entry":[{},{},"407","6","R18"]},{"entry":["500","KR Television","501","1","ALL"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","502","2","SEVEN"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","503","3","TWELVE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"504","4","FIFTEEN"]},{"entry":[{},{},"505","5","NINETEEN"]},{"entry":["600","Canada","601","1","18+"]},{"entry":[{},"Television","602","2","14+"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","603","3","PG"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","604","4","G"]},{"entry":[{},{},"605","5","C8"]},{"entry":[{},{},"606","6","C"]},{"entry":["700","DE Television","701","1","ALL"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","702","2","SIX"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","703","3","TWELVE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"704","4","SIXTEEN"]},{"entry":[{},{},"705","5","ADULTS"]},{"entry":["800","FR Television","801","1","CAT1"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","802","2","CAT2"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating","803","3","CAT3"]},{"entry":[{},{},"804","4","CAT4"]},{"entry":[{},{},"805","5","CAT5"]},{"entry":["900","Explicit","901","1","Restrict"]},{"entry":[{},"Language","902","2","Clean"]},{"entry":[{},"Rating"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
