---
title: System for and method of managing network resources
abstract: A system for and method of determining how to process a request for allocation network resource (whether to accept, deny or forward) is presented. The method may include receiving a request for allocating network resources from a user device. The method may also include determining, via at least one computer processor, whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on a classification of at least one of network elements and communication links, wherein the at least one network elements and communication links is identified based on the resource allocation request. The method may further include providing the determination of whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request to the user device. The system may utilize a dynamic set of policy, customized according to the current network status, to optimize the performance of processing the resource allocation request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009317&OS=09009317&RS=09009317
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09009317
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111010
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["A network may include a plurality of network elements interconnected by communication channels that facilitate communications and sharing of resources among the plurality of network elements. The network resources may be managed by a network resource manager where the network may be modeled as a series of network elements interconnected by communication links. The network resource manager may assign an amount of resource to each individual network elements and communication links. The network resource manager may also include a set of policy rules that may be applied to each individual network elements and communication link. The network resource manager may allocate network resource when one or more resource allocation requests are received. However, the architecture and traffic pattern associated with each individual network elements may not play an active role or may not be relevant in the process of allocating network resources. Accordingly, the allocation of the network resources of a network by a network resource manager may be inefficient and may result in delays that may impact the performance of the network.","An embodiment provides a system and method for managing network resources to achieve predetermined operational and performance specifications for a communication network using a highly efficient approach. The resource management system may determine whether to accept or deny requests for allocating network resources, while optimizing a utilization rate of network elements. The resource management system may comprise a database storing a network topology model and network policies based at least in part on the network topology model. For example, a network element or an application may transmit a request for allocating network resources to the resource management system, the resource management system may determine a type of resource allocation request and\/or an amount of network resources requested. The resource management system may determine whether to accept or deny the request for allocating network resources based at least in part on a set of network policy.","The resource management system may improve the efficiency of the allocation of the network resources with minimum amount of overhead (e.g., a number of signaling messages) with better performance metrics (e.g., reduced request processing time). For example, the resource management system may be implemented at various network elements in order to improve the efficiency of the allocation of the network resources within minimum amount of overhead and better performance metrics. The resource management system may be implemented at various network elements to determine whether to accept or deny requests for allocating network resources before the resource allocation request is transmitted to other network elements and thus reducing an amount of overhead in a communication network and thereby improving the performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","1","106","104","102","1","110","1","104","108","102","1","106","110","1","102","1","110","108","104"]},"The resource management system  and\/or the network resource management agent  may efficiently allocate network resource to the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the plurality of user devices (-N), or an application running on the user device, may transmit a request for allocating network resources to the resource management system  via the communication network . In an exemplary embodiment, the resource management system  may determine whether to accept or deny the request for allocation of network resources by applying dynamic network policies based at least in part on the network model topology to minimize processing time of the request for allocation of network resources. In another exemplary embodiment, the network resource management agent  may locally determine whether to deny, accept or forward the request for allocation of network resources to the resource management system  or other network resource management agents to reduce or minimize the amount of overhead (e.g., a number of signaling messages) within the communication network .","An embodiment of the present invention is directed to using a network resource management agent as a distributed approach to enhance the efficiency of resource management. Network resource management agents may be located on, or otherwise associated with, network elements for performance improvement. For example, a centralized resource manager may cooperate with distributed network resource management agents. In addition, a resource manager may activate or deactivate one or more network resource management agents based on various factors, such as network conditions. The network resource management agents may also activate and\/or deactivate themselves based on criteria provided by the resource management system or other source. The resource management system and the network resource management agents may proceed to a mode where new requests may be processed as soon as current utilization associated with certain elements and links are in a critical category. Thus, processing of new resource allocation requests may proceed immediately after an update of utilization of the critical category and may be completely independent of the update to a standard category. The contents of the policy list, applied to a resource allocation request, may be dynamic and optimized to include relevant elements such that the performance is improved. The network resource management agents may have different capabilities depending on what the resource manager allows or authorizes them to do. A network resource management agent may have the ability to monitor and manipulate requests and responses for resource allocation, which may be sent to it or intercepted by it, for example. Also, the application or network device which generated the request may be able to handle receiving a response (or a manipulated response) from a network resource management agent, even where the identity of the responding network resource management agent may not be known in advance.","The plurality of user devices (-N) may be a mobile user device, a computer, a personal computer, a laptop, a cellular communication device, a workstation, a mobile device, a phone, a television, a handheld PC, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a thin system, a fat system, a network appliance, an Internet browser, or other any other device that may be in communication with the resource management system  via the communication network . Other user devices (-N) may be one or more intermediary devices or applications that may communicate with the communication network , such as a transmitter\/receiver, router, modem, or a set-top box. The plurality of user devices (-N) may be coupled to the resource management system  via a wired link. In another exemplary embodiment, the plurality of user devices (-N) may be coupled to the resource management system  via a wireless link.","The communication network  may couple the plurality of user devices (-N) to the resource management system . The communication network  may be a wireless network, a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example, the communication network  may include one or more of a fiber optics network, a passive optical network, a cable network, an Internet network, a satellite network (e.g., operating in Band C, Band Ku or Band Ka), a wireless LAN, a Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), a Personal Communication Service (PCS), a long term evolution (LTE), a Personal Area Network (PAN), D-AMPS, Wi-Fi, Fixed Wireless Data, IEEE 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.15.1, 802.181n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition, the communication network  may include, without limitation, telephone line, fiber optics, IEEE Ethernet 802.3, wide area network (WAN), local area network (LAN), or global network such as the Internet. The communication network  may support an Internet network, a wireless communication network, a cellular network, or the like, or any combination thereof.","The communication network  may further include one, or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand-alone network or in cooperation with each other. Although the communication network  is depicted as one network, it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments, the communication network  may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks, such as, for example, a service provider network, the Internet, a broadcaster's network, a cable television network, corporate networks, and home networks.","The resource management system  may include one or more servers. For example, the resource management system  may include a UNIX based server, Windows 2000 Server, Microsoft IIS server, Apache HTTP server, API server, Java sever, Java Servlet API server, ASP server, PHP server, HTTP server, Mac OS X server, Oracle server, IP server, or other independent server to support operations of a client. Also, the resource management system  may include one or more Internet Protocol (IP) network server or public switch telephone network (PSTN) server. The resource management system  may include one or more databases for storing a network model topology and network policies based at least in part on the network model topology.","The network elements  of the communication network  may include core network devices, aggregation network devices, gateway network devices, and\/or transport network devices. The network elements  may comprise addressable, manageable hardware device(s) and associated software that may perform a telecommunication service function. Network elements  may include, without limitation: devices associated with level one of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model such as add\/drop multiplexers, optical add\/drop multiplexers, and\/or like devices; devices associated with level two of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model such as an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) switch and\/or any other like device; devices associated with level three of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model such as routers, switches, and or any other like devices; and\/or any other computer networking device that may transmit data across the communication network . In various exemplary embodiments, network elements  may also represent, for example, automated telephone exchanges, digital switches, and\/or other like devices associated with the public switch telephone network (PSTN). In an exemplary embodiment, the network elements  may include switches, gateway devices, routers, transmitters\/receivers, relays, servers, registry, multiplexer, signal converter, and\/or other devices that may couple the plurality of user devices (-N) to the resource management system .","The service provider  may include one or more servers to provide service to the plurality of user devices (-N) via the communication network . For example, the service provider  may include a UNIX based server, Windows 2000 Server, Microsoft IIS server, Apache HTTP server, API server, Java sever, Java Servlet API server, ASP server, PHP server, HTTP server, Mac OS X server, Oracle server, IP server, or other independent server to provide one or more contents to the plurality of user devices (-N). Also, the service provider  may include one or more Internet Protocol (IP) network server or public switch telephone network (PSTN) server.","The service provider  may include one or more storage devices including, without limitation, paper card storage, punched card, tape storage, paper tape, magnetic tape, disk storage, gramophone record, floppy disk, hard disk, ZIP disk, holographic, molecular memory. The one or more storage devices may also include, without limitation, optical disc, CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD, DVD-R, DVD-RW, DVD+R, DVD+RW, DVD-RAM, Blu-ray, Minidisc, HVD and Phase-change Dual storage device. The one or more storage devices may further include, without limitation, magnetic bubble memory, magnetic drum, core memory, core rope memory, thin film memory, twistor memory, flash memory, memory card, semiconductor memory, solid state semiconductor memory or any other like mobile storage devices.","The service provider  may include one or more servers that provide various services to user devices (-N). The service providers may include, but not limited to, a radio company, a fiber optics company, a cable company (e.g., Cox Communication, Comcast Corp, and\/or Adelphia Communication Corp), a satellite company (e.g., DirecTV and\/or Dish Network), a broadcasting company (e.g., National Broadcasting Company (NBC), American Broadcasting Company (ABC), Fox Broadcasting Company (FOX), and\/or Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS)) and\/or other radio\/television broadcasting companies. The content providers may also include, but not limited to, an Internet content providers, telephone service provider, television service provider, and\/or other content service providers. Moreover, the content providers may be over-the top content providers including Netflix\u00ae, Blockbuster\u00ae, or RedBox\u00ae.","The communication links  may be a communication channel within the communication network  that may connect the network elements . The communication links  may include physical communication links or logical communication links, or a combination of the physical communication links and the logical communication links. In an exemplary embodiment, the communication links  may be, for example, but not limited to, a data link, uplink, downlink, fiber optics link, point-to-point link, wireless link, wired links, and\/or other communication links that connect the network elements .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["106","106","206","208","210","212","214","206","208","210","212","214","206","208","210","212","214","206","208","210","212","214","100","102","1","104","108"]},"The agent management module  may comprise at least one computer processor for providing an interface between the network resource management agents  and the resource management system . The agent management module  may include a user interface, e.g., a graphical user interface, to receive one or more queries\/requests from the network resource management agents (-N) to minimize an amount of overhead within the communication network . The agent management module  may provide a separate or a unified graphical user interface. The agent management module  may include an Application Programming Interface (API) to interact with the plurality of network resource management agents (-N). In an exemplary embodiment, the agent management module  may receive one or more requests or queries for permission to deny or forward requests for allocating network resources. In another exemplary embodiment, the agent management module  may receive one or more requests or queries to update network policies stored at the agent management module .","In response to receiving requests or queries from the network resource management agents (-N), the agent management module  may provide the request or queries to the input\/output (I\/O) module , the processing module , the database module , and the network policy module . For example, the agent management module  may provide the requests or queries to the processing module  for processing to determine whether to grant the network resource management agents (-N) permission to deny or forward the request for allocating network resources. The agent management module  may also provide the requests or queries to the database module  and for storage. The agent management module  may provide the requests or queries to the network policy module  to determine whether to update the network policies stored at the network resource management agents (-N).","The agent management module  may provide a response to the plurality of network resource management agents (-N). For example, the agent management module  may instruct the network resource management agents (-N) how to determine whether to deny or forward the request for allocating network resources to the resource management system . In another exemplary embodiment, the agent management module  may provide updated network model topology and network policies based at least in part on the network model topology to the network resource management agents (-N). The agent management module  may provide instructions to the network resource management agents (-N) to turn the network resource management agents (-N) to an \u201cON\u201d state or an \u201cOFF\u201d state, depending on dynamics associated with the network utilization.","The input\/output (I\/O) module  may include network ports, routers, repeater, antennas, USB ports, or other transceiver device for transmitting data to and receiving data from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the input\/output (I\/O) module  may receive requests or queries for allocating network resources from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the input\/output (I\/O) module  may establish a communication path with the plurality of user devices (-N) and receive request for allocating network resources. The request for allocating network resources may include type of services requested (e.g., Video on Demand (VOD), IPTV, Audio\/Video Conferencing, content distribution, webcast and distant learning applications). The request for allocating network resources may also include identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), for example, IP address, media access control (MAC) address, uniform resource locator (URL), uniform resource identifiers (URI), telephone number, set-top box number, and\/or other identification number associated with the plurality of user devices (-N). The request for allocating network resource may further identify network resources requested, for example, a type of communication services (e.g., Internet, satellite, cable, fiber optics, telephone line), an amount of bandwidth (e.g., 15 Mbps), protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements associated with a communication path, one or more communication links along a communication path, and\/or other identification information of the network resources. The request for allocating network resource may further include an identification field to help associate the request with corresponding responses.","The input\/output (I\/O) module  may preprocess the resource allocation request received from the plurality of user devices (-N) (e.g., filter, sort, format, and aggregate). In an exemplary embodiment, the preprocessing of the resource allocation request received by the input\/output (I\/O) module  may include filtering the resource allocation requests and eliminating erroneous or defective resource allocation requests, sorting the resource allocation requests, formatting the resource allocation requests into desired format (e.g., identify various portions of the resource allocation requests), and aggregating the resource allocation requests received from plurality of user devices (-N).","The resource allocation request may be transferred from the input\/output (I\/O) module  to the processing module  for processing. The processing module  may process the resource allocation request to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request. The processing module  may include at least one computer processor or a plurality of sub-analytical modules having a computer processor to perform various operations. For example, the processing module  may identify an amount of network resource requested associated with the resource allocation request transmitted by the plurality of user devices (-N). The processing module  may identify a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on the resource allocation request. For example, the processing module  may identify one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider .","The processing module  may identify a classification of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . For example, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified into a plurality of categories based at least in part on a utilization rate. In an exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified as a priority category when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  reach a predetermined utilization rate (e.g., 75%). In another exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified as a standard category when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  remain below a predetermined utilization rate (e.g., 60%).","The processing module  may dynamically apply a corresponding set of network policies to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request. For example, the processing module  may access the network policy module  to identify a corresponding set of network policies based at least in part on the current network status such as current utilization of one or more network element or link. The processing module  may identify a corresponding set of network policies based at least in part on a classification of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the resource allocation request. In an exemplary embodiment, the processing module  may only identify a set of network policies corresponding to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the priority category. The network policies associated with the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the standard category may not be identified because the utilization rate is below the predetermined utilization rate. Accordingly, a number of network policies used to process the resource allocation request may be changed based on the condition of the communication network  at a point in time. Also, the number of network policies used to process the resource allocation request may be reduced because the processing module  may only utilize the network policies associated with the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the priority category and thus reducing the response time and improve the efficiency of the resource management system .","The processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the classification and current utilization of the network elements  and\/or the communication links . In an exemplary embodiment, the processing module  may automatically accept the resource allocation request when the network elements  and\/or the communication links  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  are classified as a standard category. For example, the processing module  may provide an acceptance response to the plurality of user devices (-N) without inspecting the policy rules and without waiting for updating network topology model stored in the database module . In another exemplary embodiment, the processing module  may apply a corresponding set of network policy to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request when the network elements  and\/or the communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  are classified as a priority category. For example, the processing module  may determine to accept the resource allocation request, the processing module  may provide an acceptance response to the plurality of user devices (-N) after updating the network topology model stored in the database module . For example, the immediate updating of the network topology model stored in the database module  may be required for elements classified as priority category in order to ensure the accuracy of the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  when processing subsequent resource allocation requests. A delay (e.g., after providing acceptance response) in updating the network topology model stored in the database module  may be tolerable for the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the standard category because the utilization rate is below the predetermined utilization rate and thus may not impact the accuracy of subsequent resource allocation requests. For example, new allocation requests may be processed immediately after updating the current allocated resources for the priority category. There is no need to wait for updating the current allocated resources for the standard category.","The database module  may store and manage network topology model of the communication network  and utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the resource allocation request may be received from the plurality of user devices (-N) by the input\/output (I\/O) module  and may be stored in the database module . The database module  may also receive a network topology model and updates of the network topology model from the processing module . The database module  may further receive updated utilization rate of network elements  and\/or communication links  from the processing module .","Various modules of the resource management system  may access the database module  to obtain network topology model and\/or the utilization rate of network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the processing module  may access the database module  to obtain the utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . The network policy module  may also access the database module  to obtain the classification of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the communication network .","The database module  may be network accessible storage and may be local, remote, or a combination thereof to modules , , , and\/or . The database module  may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID), tape, disk, a storage area network (SAN), an internet small computer systems interface (iSCSI) SAN, a Fibre Channel SAN, a common Internet File System (CIFS), network attached storage (NAS), a network file system (NFS), or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments, database module  may be a database, such as an Oracle\u00ae database, a Microsoft\u00ae SQL Server database, a DB2 database, a MySQL\u00ae database, a Sybase\u00ae database, an object oriented database, a hierarchical database, or other database. The database module  may utilize flat file structures for storage of data.","The network policy module  may comprise at least one computer processor and\/or a database to process and store the network policies of the communication network . The network policies may allow the resource management system  to determine whether to accept or deny resource allocation requests received from the plurality of user devices (-N). The network policy module  may comprise network policies for the plurality of categories of network elements  and\/or the communication links . The network policies of the communication network  may be sets of conditions, constraints, and settings that may be applied to determine whether resource allocation requests may be accepted or denied.","For example, the network policy module  may comprise network policies for the standard category of network elements  and\/or the communication links . Also, the network policy module  may comprise network policies for the priority category of the network elements  and\/or the communication links . The network policy module  may receive updated network policies of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the communication network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["110","110","306","308","310","312","314","306","308","310","312","314","306","308","310","312","314","110","102","1","110","102","1","306","308","310","312","314","110","100","104","106","108","112"]},"The agent communication module  may comprise at least one computer processor for providing an interface between the network resource management agents  and the resource management system . The agent communication module  may include a user interface, e.g., a graphical user interface, to receive one or more queries\/requests and\/or provisioning requests from the resource management system  to minimize an amount of overhead within the communication network . The agent communication module  may provide a separate or a unified graphical user interface. The agent communication module  may include an Application Programming Interface (API) to interact with the resource management system . In an exemplary embodiment, the agent communication module  may provide one or more requests or queries to the resource management system  for permission to process resource allocation requests from the plurality of user devices (-N). In an exemplary embodiment, the resource management system  may provision the network resource management agent  through the agent communication module . In another exemplary embodiment, the agent communication module  may periodically transmit one or more requests or queries to the resource management system  for permission to process resource allocation requests from the plurality of user devices (-N). The agent communication module  may also receive one or more responses from the resource management system  to accept or deny the request to process resource allocation requests. The agent communication module  may receive a request to from the resource management system  to turn the network resource management agents (-N) to an \u201cON\u201d state or an \u201cOFF\u201d state. Further, the resource management system  may authorize the agent communication module  to take a local decision, based on current network status, regarding the agent turning itself to an \u201cON\u201d state or an \u201cOFF\u201d state.","In response to receiving responses from the resource management system , the agent communication module  may provide the response to the agent input\/output (I\/O) module , the agent processing module , the agent database module , and the agent network monitoring and policy module . For example, the agent communication module  may provide the response to the agent processing module  to process the resource allocation requests to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation requests. The agent communication module  may also provide the response to the agent database module  and store the response. The agent communication module  may communicate with the agent network monitoring and policy module  to determine utilization rates of one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links .","The agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may include network ports, routers, repeater, antennas, USB ports, or other transceiver device for transmitting data to and receiving data from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may receive requests or queries for allocating network resources from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may establish a communication path with the plurality of user devices (-N) and receive request for allocating network resources. The request for allocating network resources may include type of services requested (e.g., Video on Demand (VOD), IPTV, Audio\/Video Conferencing, content distribution, webcast and distant learning applications). The request for allocating network resources may also include identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), for example, IP address, media access control (MAC) address, uniform resource locator (URL), uniform resource identifiers (URI), telephone number, set-top box number, and\/or other identification number associated with the plurality of user devices (-N). The request for allocating network resource may further identify network resources requested, for example, a type of communication services (e.g., Internet, satellite, cable, fiber optics, telephone line), an amount of bandwidth (e.g., 15 Mbps), protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements associated with a communication path, one or more communication links along a communication path, and\/or other identification information of the requested content and\/or network resources. The request for allocating network resource may further include an identification field to help with associating the request with corresponding responses.","The agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may preprocess the resource allocation request received from the plurality of user devices (-N) (e.g., filter, sort, format, aggregate, etc.). In an exemplary embodiment, the preprocessing of the resource allocation request received by the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may include filtering the resource allocation requests and eliminating erroneous or defective resource allocation requests, sorting the resource allocation requests, formatting the resource allocation requests into desired format (e.g., identify various portions of the resource allocation requests), and aggregating the resource allocation requests received from plurality of user devices (-N).","The resource allocation request may be transferred from the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  to the agent processing module  for processing. The agent processing module  may process the resource allocation request to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request. The agent processing module  may include at least one computer processor or a plurality of sub-analytical modules having a computer processor to perform various operations. For example, the agent processing module  may identify an amount of network resource requested associated with the resource allocation request transmitted by the plurality of user devices (-N). The agent processing module  may identify a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on the resource allocation request. For example, the agent processing module  may identify one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider .","The agent processing module  may identify a utilization rate of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may identify a utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path directly coupled to the network resource management agent . For example, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified into a plurality of categories based at least in part on a utilization rate. In an exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified as priority category when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  reach a predetermined utilization rate (e.g., 75%). In another exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be classified as standard category when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  remain below a predetermined utilization rate (e.g., 60%).","The agent processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the agent processing module  may determine the action taken regarding the request (e.g., whether to accept, deny or forward the resource allocation request) based at least in part on the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent . The agent processing module  may access the agent network monitoring and policy module  to identify the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the resource network management agent . The agent processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent .","In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may determine to accept the resource allocation request when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent  are classified as standard category. In another exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may determine to deny the resource allocation request when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent  are classified as priority category. The agent processing module  may allow early determination of the resource allocation request before the resource allocation request propagates to the resource management system . Thus, the agent processing module  may prevent further propagation of the resource allocation request and reduce the signaling and processing overhead at subsequent network elements  or at resource management system .","The agent processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent . In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may accept the resource allocation request when the resource allocation request does not exceed the maximum utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . In another exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may deny the resource allocation request when the resource allocation request exceeds the maximum utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider .","The agent database module  may store and manage the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the resource allocation request may be received from the plurality of user devices (-N) by the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may be stored in the agent database module . The agent database module  may also receive a network topology model and updates of the network topology model. The agent database module  may further receive updated utilization rate of network elements  and\/or communication links  from the agent processing module .","Various modules of the network resource management agent  may access the agent database module  to obtain network topology model and\/or the utilization rate of network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the agent processing module  may access the agent database module  to obtain the utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . The agent network monitoring and policy module  may also access the agent database module  to obtain the network topology of the communication network .","The agent database module  may be network accessible storage and may be local, remote, or a combination thereof to modules , , , and\/or . The agent database module  may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID), tape, disk, a storage area network (SAN), an internet small computer systems interface (iSCSI) SAN, a Fibre Channel SAN, a common Internet File System (CIFS), network attached storage (NAS), a network file system (NFS), or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments, agent database module  may be a database, such as an Oracle\u00ae database, a Microsoft\u00ae SQL Server database, a DB2 database, a MySQL\u00ae database, a Sybase\u00ae database, an object oriented database, a hierarchical database, or other database. The agent database module  may utilize flat file structures for storage of data.","The agent network monitoring and policy module  may comprise at least one computer processor and\/or a database to monitor utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links . The agent network monitoring and policy module  may transmit a status request message to one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  in order to determine a utilization rate of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the agent network monitoring and policy module  may periodically (e.g., every second, minute, hour) transmit a status request message to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent . The agent network monitoring and policy module  may transmit a status request message to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  based at least in part on a reception of the resource allocation requests. For example, the agent network monitoring and policy module  may transit a status request message to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  along a communication path of the resource allocation request. The agent network monitoring and policy module  may provide the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  to the agent database module  and stored. The network monitoring module also is capable of evaluating policy rules to support taking decisions within its scope.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["106","400","400","400","106","104","400","400","402"]},"At block , the method  for determining whether to accept or deny resource allocation requests may begin.","At block , the input\/output module (I\/O) module  may receive resource allocation requests from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the input\/output (I\/O) module  may establish a communication path with the plurality of user devices (-N) and receive requests for allocating network resources. The request for allocating network resources may include type of services requested (e.g., Video on Demand (VOD), IPTV, Audio\/Video Conferencing, content distribution, webcast and distant learning applications). The request for allocating network resources may also include identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), for example, IP address, media access control (MAC) address, uniform resource locator (URL), uniform resource identifiers (URI), telephone number, set-top box number, and\/or other identification number associated with the plurality of user devices (-N). The request for allocating network resource may further identify network resources requested, for example, a type of communication services (e.g., Internet, satellite, cable, fiber optics, telephone line), an amount of bandwidth (e.g., 15 Mbps), protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements associated with a communication path, one or more communication links along a communication path, and\/or other identification information of the network resources. The request for allocating network resource may further include an identification field to help with associating the request with the corresponding responses. After receiving the resource allocation request at the input\/output (I\/O) module , the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the request for allocating network resource. The resource allocation request may be transferred from the input\/output (I\/O) module  to the processing module  for processing. The processing module  may process the resource allocation request to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request. For example, the processing module  may identify an amount of network resource requested associated with the resource allocation request transmitted by the plurality of user devices (-N). The processing module  may identify a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on the resource allocation request. For example, the processing module  may identify one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider .","The processing module  may identify a classification of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on an utilization rate. The processing module  may apply a corresponding dynamic set of network policies to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the classification of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links . For example, the processing module  may access the network policy module  to identify a corresponding set of network policies based at least in part on the classification of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  identified by the resource allocation request.","In an exemplary embodiment, the processing module  may identify a limited set of network policies. For example, the processing module  may only identify a set of network policies corresponding to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the priority category. The network policies associated with the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the standard category may not be identified because the utilization rate is below the predetermined utilization rate. Accordingly, a number of network policies used to process the resource allocation request may be changed based on the condition of the communication network  at a point in time. Also, the number of network policies used to process the resource allocation request may be reduced because the processing module  may be limited to only utilize the network policies associated with the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the priority category and thus reducing the response time and improve the efficiency of the resource management system . In another exemplary embodiment, the processing module  may only identify a set of network policies corresponding to the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the standard category. In the event that the processing module  determines to deny the resource allocation request, the method  may proceed to block  where it can process new resource allocation request. Method  may also proceed to block . In the event that the processing module  determines to accept the resource allocation request, the processing module  may provide an acceptance response to the plurality of user devices (-N), and the method  may proceed to blocks  or .","At block , the processing module  may provide a denial response to the plurality of user device (-N) via the input\/output (I\/O) module  when the processing module  determines to deny the request for allocating network resources.","At block , the processing module  may provide a acceptance response to the plurality of user device (-N) via the input\/output (I\/O) module  when the processing module  determines to accept the request for allocating network resources.","At block , the processing module  may determine to accept the resource allocation request, the processing module  may update the utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  identified by the resource allocation request. For example, the processing module  may update the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  identified by the resource allocation request in the network topology model stored in the database module . The immediate updating of the elements and links in the priority category within the network topology model stored in the database module  may be required in order to ensure the accuracy of the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  for subsequent resource allocation requests.","At block , the processing module  may accept the resource allocation request and update utilization rate for network elements  and\/or communication links  that are classified as standard category. The processing module  may provide an acceptance message to the plurality of user devices (-N) before updating utilization rate of network elements  and\/or communication links  of the network topology model, in the standard category, stored in the database module . A delay (e.g., after providing acceptance response) in updating the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the network topology model stored in the database module  may be tolerable for the network elements  and\/or the communication links  classified as the standard category because the utilization rate is below the predetermined utilization rate and thus may not impact the accuracy of subsequent resource allocation requests. After transmitting an acceptance message and updating utilization rate of network elements  and communication links  that are classified as standard category in the network topology model, the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the processing module  may determine updated utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links . For example, the processing module  may access the database module  to obtain utilization rate of network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the network topology model. The processing module  may access the database module  after updating the utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  of the network topology model. After, determining updated utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links , the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the processing module  may determine whether to reclassify the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  based at least in part on the updated utilization rate. The one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may be reclassified into a plurality of categories based at least in part on a utilization rate. In an exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may have a utilization rate of 50%. After accepting the resource allocation request, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may have an updated utilization rate of 90% (e.g., above a threshold utilization rate of 70%). The processing module  may reclassify the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  as priority category. In another exemplary embodiment, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may have a utilization rate of 50%. After accepting the resource allocation request, the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  may have an updated utilization rate of 55% (e.g., below a threshold utilization rate of 70%). The one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  may remain as standard category and the processing module  may not reclassify the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links . In the event that the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  are not reclassify, the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the processing module  may not change network policies associated with the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  when the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  are not reclassified.","At block , the processing module  may change network policies associated with the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  when the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  are reclassified into a different category. For example, the processing module  may associate network policies corresponding to the priority category to the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  when the one or more network elements  and\/or communications links  are reclassified as priority category. The processing module  may associate network policies corresponding to the standard category to the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  when the one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  are reclassified as standard category. To reduce processing time, the policy set applied to the resource allocation request may not include rules associated with network elements  and\/or communication links  classified as standard category.","At block , the method for determining whether to accept or deny request for allocating network resource may end.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 1 and 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["110","500","500","500","110","104","500","500","502"]},"At block , the method  for determining whether to accept, deny or forward resource allocation requests may begin.","At block , the agent input\/output module (I\/O) module  may receive resource allocation requests from the plurality of user devices (-N). For example, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may be implemented or integrated with the plurality of user devices (-N). The agent input\/output module  may receive the requests for allocating network resources received by the plurality of user devices (-N). In another exemplary embodiment, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may be implemented as separate element communicatively coupled to the plurality of user devices (-N). The agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may intercept the requests for allocating network resourced transmitted by the plurality of user devices (-N). The request for allocating network resources may include type of services requested (e.g., Video on Demand (VOD), IPTV, Audio\/Video Conferencing, content distribution, webcast and distant learning applications). The request for allocating network resources may also include identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), for example, IP address, media access control (MAC) address, uniform resource locator (URL), uniform resource identifiers (URI), telephone number, set-top box number, and\/or other identification number associated with the plurality of user devices (-N). The request for allocating network resource may further identify network resources requested, for example, a type of communication services (e.g., Internet, satellite, cable, fiber optics, telephone line), an amount of bandwidth (e.g., 15 Mbps), protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements associated with a communication path, one or more communication links along a communication path, and\/or other identification information of the network resources. The request for allocating network resource may further include an identification field to help associate the request with corresponding responses. After receiving the requests for allocating network resources at the agent input\/output (I\/O) module , the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent communication module  may determine whether the network resource management agent  is activated to determine whether to accept or deny the request for allocating network resources. For example, the agent communication module  may receive an activation signal from the resource management system . The agent communication module  may activate the network resource management agent  based at least in part on the activation signal provided by the resource management system . In another example, the agent communication module  may receive a deactivation signal from the resource management system . The agent communication module  may deactivate the network resource management agent  based at least in part on the deactivation signal provided by the resource management system . In the event that the network resource management  is activated, the method  may proceed to block . In the event that the network resource management agent  is deactivated, the method  may proceed to block . Also, the network resource management agent  may deactivate itself based on network conditions (e.g., in the case when it decides that it can not contribute positively to the performance).","At block , the network resource management agent  may forward the resource allocation request. For example, the network resource management agent  may be deactivated, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  of the network resource management agent () may forward the resource allocation request to another network resource management agent (-N) implemented at one or more network elements  of the communication network . In another exemplary embodiment, the network resource management agent  may forward the resource allocation request to the resource management system  via one or more network elements  and\/or communications links . After forwarding the resource allocation request, the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent network monitoring and policy module  may intercept the response associated with the forwarded resource allocation requests. For example, the agent network monitoring and policy module  may intercept a response to the resource allocation requests provided by other network resource management agents (-N) or the resource management system . In an exemplary embodiment, the agent network monitoring and policy module  may match identifier information of the response with identifier information of the resource allocation requests. The agent network monitoring and policy module  may determine whether the resource allocation request has been accepted or denied from the response message. Also, the resource management system  may provide an explicit resource allocation update to the network resource management agent .","At block , the agent processing module  may process the requests for allocating network resources. In the event that the network resource management agent  is activated, the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  may provide the resource allocation requests to the agent processing module . The agent processing module  may extract information associated with the resource allocation requests. For example, the information extracted by the agent processing module  may include type of services requested, identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), network resources requested, protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements  associated with a communication path, one or more communication links  along a communication path. The agent processing module  may filter, sort, format and\/or aggregate the resource allocation requests received from the plurality of user devices (-N). In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may include filtering the resource allocation requests and eliminating erroneous or defective resource allocation requests, sorting the resource allocation requests, formatting the resource allocation requests into desired format (e.g., identify various portions of the resource allocation requests), and aggregating the resource allocation requests received from plurality of user devices (-N). After processing the requests for allocating network resource, the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the request for allocating network resource. The resource allocation request may be transferred from the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  to the agent processing module  for processing. The agent processing module  may process the resource allocation request to determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request. For example, the agent processing module  may identify an amount of network resource requested associated with the resource allocation request transmitted by the plurality of user devices (-N). The agent processing module  may identify a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on the resource allocation request. For example, the agent processing module  may identify one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider .","The agent processing module  may identify a classification of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within a threshold proximity (e.g., within 5 hops of the network resource management agent ) of the network resource management agent  along the communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider  based at least in part on an utilization rate. In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may identify network elements  and\/or communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent . The agent processing module  may identify a utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  along the communication path directly coupled to the network resource management agent . The agent processing module  may access the agent network monitoring and policy module  to identify the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the resource network management agent . The agent processing module  may determine whether to accept or deny the resource allocation request based at least in part on the categorization of the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent .","In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may determine to accept the resource allocation request when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent  are classified as standard category. In another exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may determine to deny the resource allocation request when the one or more network elements  and\/or the communication links  within the scope of the network resource management agent  are classified as priority category. The agent processing module  may allow early determination of the resource allocation request before the resource allocation request propagates to the resource management system . Thus, the agent processing module  may prevent further propagation of the resource allocation request and reduce the signaling and processing overhead at subsequent network elements . In the event that the agent processing module  determines to accept the resource allocation request, the method  may proceed to block . In the event that the agent processing module  determines to deny the resource allocation request, the method  may proceed to block . The method  may also proceed to receive new resource allocation request block .","At block , the agent processing module  may forward a denial response to the plurality of user device (-N) via the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  when the agent processing module  determines to deny the request for allocating network resources. In another exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may deny the resource allocation request when the resource allocation request exceeds the maximum utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . The early denial of the resource allocation request before the resource allocation request propagates to the resource management system  may prevent further propagation of the resource allocation request and reduce the signaling and processing overhead at subsequent network elements .","At block , the agent processing module  may forward an acceptance response to the plurality of user device (-N) via the agent input\/output (I\/O) module  when the agent processing module  determines to accept the request for allocating network resources. In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may accept the resource allocation request when the resource allocation request does not exceed the maximum utilization rate of the network elements  and\/or the communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent  along a communication path between the plurality of user devices (-N) and the service provider . After forwarding an acceptance response, the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent communication module  may report the acceptance of the resource allocation requests to the resource management system . For example, the agent communication module  may provide a record of actions performed by the network resource management agent . The record may include time stamp of actions performed by the network resource management agent . The record may also list the actions in chronological order or classify actions by categories. The record may also include type of services requested, identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), network resources requested, protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements  associated with a communication path, one or more communication links  along a communication path. After reporting the acceptance of resource allocation request to the resource management system , the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent processing module  may update a database of network topology model stored at the network resource management agent . For example, the agent processing module  may update a utilization rate of network elements  and\/or communication links  of the network topology model stored at the agent database module . In an exemplary embodiment, the agent processing module  may update utilization rate of network elements  and\/or communication links  directly coupled to the network resource management agent  of the network topology model stored at the agent database module . The method  may proceed to receive new resource allocation request block .","The agent database module  may also store resource allocation requests forwarded to other network resource management agent  or resource management system . For example, the agent processing module  may update the agent database module  of one or more resource allocation requests that are forwarded by the agent input\/output () module  to other network resource management agents (-N) and the resource management system . The agent network monitoring and policy module  may update response messages associated with the resource allocation request. The agent database module  may update the utilization rate of one or more network elements  and\/or communication links  of network topology model stored at the agent database module . After updating the agent database module , the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the agent communication module  may report the acceptance of the resource allocation requests to other network resource management agents (-N). For example, the agent communication module  may provide a record of actions performed by a first network resource management agent () to other network resource management agents (-N). The record may include time stamp of actions performed by the network resource management agent . The record may also list the actions in chronological order or classify actions by categories. The record may also include type of services requested, identification information associated with plurality of user devices (-N), network resources requested, protocols of the network resource, one or more network elements  associated with a communication path, one or more communication links  along a communication path. After reporting the acceptance of resource allocation request to other network resource management agents (-N), the method  may proceed to block .","At block , the method for determining whether to accept or deny request for allocating network resource may end.","Typically, a resource allocation request may be sent to a specific destination (e.g., the resource management system) and a response from the same element may be expected back to the requester. In the case when network resource management agents are involved, the response to the resource allocation request may be sent from a network resource management agent, rather than the original destination. Since the identification of the responding network resource management agent may not be known in advance to the element or application that generated the resource allocation request, there is a need for the resource allocation process to accommodate this situation. A consideration is that the element or application which issued the resource allocation request may be able to accommodate a response from an element (e.g. an IP address) which is different from the one that the request was sent to. This may be accomplished using several different approaches. As an example, the element or application which issued the request may run a process that listens to a response from an unknown (or a set of known) IP addresses on a particular communication port (e.g., TCP or UDP port). Because the response may include an identifier, this allows the response receiver to associate the response to the appropriate request.","In the preceding specification, various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto, and additional embodiments may be implemented, without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention, together with further objects and advantages, may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in the several figures of which like reference numerals identify like elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
