---
title: Dynamic digital montage
abstract: A dynamic digital montage system assists a user in creating and publishing a montage about one or more specified topics. The system receives an identification of one or more topics of interest from the user, and based on the subject information, collects data from dynamic and static data sources for display in dedicated sections of a montage. The data is presented in one of a number of predefined but editable layouts for presentation to a user. In one implementation, at least one of the montage components is associated with a dynamic data source and is updated when new data is provided by the dynamic data source. In another implementation, the data sources attached to the montage components are analyzed on a periodic basis, and based on the analysis, data source assignments and/or the montage layout is revised.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195757&OS=09195757&RS=09195757
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09195757
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110502
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The development of the World Wide Web (the \u201cWeb\u201d), web search engines, and social networking services has resulted in the generation and collection of vast quantities of information. Such information is often presented to Web users through a number of websites that display the information on substantially static or slowly evolving Web pages and update those Web pages at various intervals (e.g., weekly, daily, hourly). Examples of such static data sources include numerous newspaper websites, news network websites, magazine publisher websites, industry press websites, etc. However, while some Web pages are updated by their publishers more frequently than others, the sources and frequency of such updates are typically limited (e.g., an editor posts a new article on the Web page one or twice a day).","On the other hand, a vast amount of online information is also generated and presented through dynamic data sources, including without limitation various RSS feeds, blogs, micro-blogs, forums, chat rooms, etc., which tend to provide information of a more current, asynchronous, and rapidly changing nature. For example, a blogger may post an article on his or her blog at the beginning of the day and then, throughout the day and into the future, others are posting comments to the article in the article's comments section. In addition, dynamic data sources often provide such information automatically or semi-automatically as the information is published by various authors, commenters, and information services, rather than merely being posted manually to a static Web page by an editor on a periodic basis. For example, online comments and discussions about a snowstorm, uploaded images and videos of the snowstorm, etc. are automatically aggregated and re-published frequently through various social media channels in the hours before, during and after the snowstorm. In contrast, static Web pages, such as pages on a website for the city experiencing the snowstorm, tend not to capture in near-real-time the surge of interest about the snow storm that is captured by the dynamic data sources.","Furthermore, the relevancy of information to users may diminish quickly as the subject matter becomes less current. For example, user interest about the snowstorm information wanes after the snowstorm has ended, and as such, if such information were captured on static Web pages, the relevance of the information from static data sources to users will also diminish over time. In contrast, the temporally-less-relevant information from dynamic data sources typically gives way to new information about more relevant topics as time progresses. Accordingly, information generated by such dynamic, or \u201ctrending,\u201d data sources tends to appear and then recede into the background very quickly so that the most relevant information is more prominent and readily accessible. Thus, dynamic data sources provide a relevancy advantage over substantially unchanging and stale static data sources.","Implementations described and claimed herein address the foregoing problems by providing a dynamic digital montage system. The dynamic digital montage system disclosed herein assists a user in creating and publishing a montage about one or more specified topics. The system receives an identification of one or more topics of interest from the user, and based on the subject information, collects data from dynamic and static data sources for display in dedicated sections of a montage. The data is presented in one of a number of predefined but editable layouts for presentation to a user. Each predefined layout includes multiple montage components, wherein an editor engine allows the user to select the montage components to be included in and\/or omitted from the montage, to identify one or more data sources that provide information related to topics of user interest, to assign the one or data sources to the one or more montage components, and to display data received from the data source through the assigned montage component. In one implementation, at least one of the montage components is associated with a dynamic data source and is updated when new data is provided by the dynamic data source. In another implementation, the data sources attached to the montage components are analyzed on a periodic basis and, based on the analysis, data source assignments and\/or the montage layout are revised.","In some implementations, articles of manufacture are provided as computer program products. One implementation of a computer program product provides a tangible computer program storage medium readable by a computing system and encoding a processor-executable program. Other implementations are also described and recited herein.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","In one or more implementations, a dynamic digital montage system enables users to curate information from one or more dynamic data sources into customized layouts on one or more specified topics. In addition to including data from static data sources (e.g., substantially or slowly changing Web pages), a dynamic digital montage also incorporates near-real-time updated data from dynamic data sources, such as blogs, micro-blogs, social networking websites, search results, etc. In one implementation, a dynamic digital montage also includes rich media, such as photographs, online videos, etc., from both static and dynamic data sources. Such dynamic digital montages can be created by a single user or by a community of users, wherein the members of the community add comments, tags, rankings, etc. Community curation also allows the community members to redesign the layout, to re-mix the sources, etc. Users can also use a dynamic digital montage created by other users as a template and redesign it to generate their own dynamic digital montages. Attribution to the original author can be provided by the deriving user within the deriving user's montage, thereby providing historical continuity as dynamic digital montages evolve.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","100"]},"The montage shown in  presents an assembly of four distinct montage components: a Twitter\u00ae montage component , a video montage component , a map montage component , and a news montage component . The video montage component  and the map montage component  present video and maps (pertaining to the topic \u201cIran Protests), respectively, as collected from substantially static data sources, such as Bing\u00ae Videos and Bing\u00ae Maps. In contrast, the Twitter\u00ae montage component  and the news montage component  present tweets and news articles (pertaining to the topic \u201cIran Protests), respectively, from dynamic data sources, such as a Twitter\u00ae feed and an MSN\u00ae RSS feed. Dynamic data sources provide a data stream that changes frequently, often because the data is collected asynchronously from multiple sources and provided into the data stream when received. The Twitter\u00ae montage component  includes avatars representing the authors of the tweets (see e.g., avatar ). The video montage component includes a frame capture image of each associated video (such as image ). The map montage component  includes a map  with markers indicating locations relevant to the specified topic. The news montage component  includes images (such as image ) associated with the news article presented in the list.","The data displayed in the video montage component  and the map montage component  remains relatively static, because the underlying data sources are unchanging or slowly changing. In contrast, the data displayed in the Twitter\u00ae montage component  and the news montage component  refreshes frequently because the underlying dynamic data sources provide frequently changing data streams (e.g., the data stream provide a flow of new data as new data is available from the dynamic data source). Accordingly, the Twitter\u00ae montage component  and the news montage component  appears to scroll down the page as new content is added to the top of their respective lists during each refresh, such that the most current tweets and news articles are presented more prominently than the older items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","200","202"]},"The search engine  can be executed on a variety of different devices. For example, a user can execute the search engine  as a local application or via a web browser on a workstation, a mobile device, set-top box, etc. In one implementation, a website that publishes montages for users may present a user interface that presents a search field to receive a user-provided topic of interest and a search control to trigger the associated search. Alternatively, the search engine  may be linked to one or more popular search engines. In one such implementation, the list of search results returned from an external search engine may present an option that allows the user to create a montage for that topic based on the search results.","In one implementation, the dynamic digital montage environment  selects from a number of predefined montages , , , etc., (collectively referred to as the \u201cmontages \u201d) based on a specified search topic. In one implementation, in addition to the search topic, the selection of the montages  can also depend on a number of parameters related to the user, which the dynamic digital montage environment  determines from a user profile, historical search data, social network data, a user's location, etc. Furthermore, such information may be used to determine the relevance of certain data sources to the user and the specified search topic. For example, if there is a member of the user's social network who publishes a blog about micro-brewed beers in Seattle, one of the montages in the selection of montages  may use the blog as a dynamic data source.","In another implementation, the selection of montages  is based on one or more rankings of various predefined montage layouts or of fully authored montages. In such an implementation, the dynamic digital montage environment  keeps track of the usage, ratings, and\/or popularity of various predefined montage layouts and montages. For example, the dynamic digital montage environment  can provide a feedback option to users\/visitors of various montages to collect the popularity information, using such popularity information to rank the predefined montage layouts and montages. Alternatively, the dynamic digital montage environment  tracks other parameters related to montage layouts and montages, such as the number of authors choosing a particular montage layout, the number of visitors to an authored montage during a time period, the time spent by the visitors in viewing an authored montage, the number of links to an authored montage, etc., and uses the collected parameters to influence a ranking for the corresponding montage layout and\/or authored montage. It should be understood, however, that a user may alternatively create and curate a dynamic digital montage from scratch, by adding montage components to a montage and assigning sections\/locations of the montage, component types (e.g., video, blog, etc.), search topics and visual styles (e.g., scrolling, slideshow to the right, etc.) to the added montage components and then saving the montage.","In one implementation, the publisher of a derived montage may present an attribution to one or more authors from which the published montage is derived. For example, if Bob authors and publishes a montage that he derived from Jim's montage, Bob can include a field in his montage that identifies that his montage was derived from a montage authored by Jim. Such attribution may be stored as metadata in association with Bob's montage data and presented in the user interface displaying Bob's montage.","Each of the montages  includes one or more montage components. In one implementation, a montage component can be implemented as a section of a web page, a widget for a web page, a mark-up language element, one or more user interface controls, etc. Such montage components are presented to a user within the montage  in a graphical user interface (GUI) on a computing device. The displayable region of the montage  is termed \u201cthe montage view.\u201d Montage components in a montage  are attached to one or more data sources and present data received from such data sources. In one implementation, a montage component collects data from the data source using a \u201cpull\u201d mechanism, where the montage component requests data from the data source on a periodic basis. Alternatively, the data source \u201cpushes\u201d data to the montage component, such as when new data is published to the data source. In both scenarios, the new data is received by the montage component where the new data is refreshed in the display of the montage component. Furthermore, the montage component can present the data as received or analyzes and\/or formats the data before the data is presented.","As illustrated in , a montage includes montage components -, each montage component allocated to a distinct section of the montage. A static information montage component  presents data from a static data source (i.e., a data source with unchanging or slowly changing data) about the topic indicated by the user, such as via a search field. For example, for the topic of \u201cmicro-brewed beer in Seattle,\u201d the static information montage component  collects one or more reports about various Seattle micro-breweries from static data sources (e.g., newspaper Web pages) and presents them on the montage within the GUI of the static information montage component . In various implementations, the static data sources used by the static information montage component  include websites of local newspapers and periodicals, websites of local breweries, national newspapers, etc. The static information montage component  includes a scroll bar to allow a user to navigate within the GUI of the static information montage component .","In one implementation, the data presented by the static information montage component  is cached on a server supporting (e.g., serving) the dynamic digital montage environment . In such a case, even if a data source changes the information, the information presented by the static information montage component  remains the same until refreshed by the montage component . In an alternative implementation, the information presented by the static information montage component  is updated at pre-determined time intervals, which may be customized by the user.","The montage also includes a blog feed montage component  that collects and presents blog data, RSS data, and\/or micro-blog data, such as from a Twitter\u00ae feed, etc. Whereas the data presented by the static information montage component  is substantially static in nature, the data presented by the blog feed montage component  is relatively more dynamic. In other words, a substantial amount of the data presented by the blog feed montage component  is generated and displayed in real-time or near real-time. As a result, the blog feed montage component  presents the data in a dynamic format, such as a scrolling format, etc.","Furthermore, the blog feed montage component  can also analyze the presented blog data in real-time. For example, if the blog feed montage component  finds that a new micro-brewery has opened in Seattle, and due to that fact, a lot of users are blogging about this new brewery, the blog feed montage component  selects and collects data about the new brewery to display in the montage . In an alternative implementation, if the blog feed montage component  finds that one or more of the acquaintances of the user of the montage are currently blogging about a particular micro-brew, the blog feed montage component  selects and collects those blog entries to be displayed in the blog feed montage component . The blog feed montage component  also allows the user of the montage to specify which blog sources are to be selected, which data sources are to be blocked, how often to update the data sources, etc. However, default settings for such parameters may also be set on a per-montage basis and applied by the montage when it is presented to the user in response to the search using the search engine . Moreover, such default settings may be based on some heuristic data about past use of the blog feed montage component  by various users.","Another example montage component included in the montage is a comments montage component . The comments montage component  allows users to add\/collect comments to the montage . A user can provide comments about the topic, layout, creator, publisher of the montage , or any general comment. In one implementation, only the creator and publisher of the montage are allowed to add comments using the comments montage component . However, in an alternative implementation, any visitor to the montage is\\may be granted access to add a comment through the comments montage component . Additionally, the comments montage component  also provides a filter option so that the types of comments for the montage may be filtered. The creator or publisher of the montage is able to restrict the identities, types, and number of users who can add comments. For example, the creator may allow only those users who are \u201cfriended\u201d by the creator or publisher in a particular social network to be able to provide a comment.","Another montage component presented on the montage is a photographs montage component  that presents various images related to the topic of the montage . The images displayed by the photographs montage component  are collected from a number of data sources, such as local storage, server-attached storage, cloud storage, etc. A user can change, edit, and\/or filter the photographs presented by the photographs montage component . Furthermore, just as with the comments montage component , the photographs montage component  also provides ability for the creator or publisher of the montage , the creator's social network friends, the publisher's social network friends, other specifically authorized users, etc., to add photographs. Attribution to the authors of the added photographs may also be provided by the curator of the montage that includes the photographs montage component .","Other types of montage components include an online video montage component (not shown) that presents one or more online videos. The online music montage component may be configured to automatically start playing audio files as soon as the user activates the montage. Yet another example of a montage component is a scrolling display (not shown) at the top or bottom of the montage. For example, if a user has created a montage about a public company, a scrolling display at the bottom can provide scrolling stock price information.","In another implementation, an advertising montage component (not shown) is also provided. For example, a user can select the advertisement montage component and select the type of advertisements that can be provided through that montage component. Alternatively, the user, creator, or publisher of a montage is provided an option for revenue sharing for any such advertisement placement. An example advertising montage component is clickable (e.g., selectable, actionable via a mouse click, etc.), transformable, and navigates a user to another website in response to selection by the user. Revenue from such navigations can be directed to the montage owner in a similar manner as a banner ad on a webpage. Furthermore, such revenue may be shared among the authors in an attribution tree. For example, if a montage is derived from one or more original montages authored by others and the montage includes attributions to these authors, the attribution information may include instructions on where to direct a portion of the revenue resulting from a navigation through an advertising montage component in the montage. As such, both the curator and the original authors of derived content and layout of the montage can be compensated for their efforts.","In one implementation, the layout of the montage components - on the montage is predetermined by the dynamic digital montage environment  based on heuristics relating to a number of montages that are created and managed by the dynamic digital montage environment . However, a user is allowed to change the layout of the montage once the user selects to work with a specific layout. Alternatively, the layout of the montages  is changed dynamically, based on updated user behavior, etc.","When a user is presented with the montages  (such as in a gallery of predefined montages), the user can browse through the montages and select one of interest to the user. The browsing support facilitates the selection process for the user. In one implementation, as the user browses each of the various montages -, the user can tag one or more montage components that the user is interested in using. Thus, for example, the user can select the static information montage component  from montage , and a comments montage component (not shown) from the montage . Alternatively, one or more parameters related to one montage component from one montage can be used with another montage component from another montage. Thus, the user can select the layout of the static information montage component  from montage and the data source from a static information montage component (not shown) from the montage ","In one implementation, as the user browses through the selection of montages , and as the user tags various montage components and parameters for the tagged montage components, such montage authoring information is saved by an authoring engine. The montage authoring information is presented to the user in a separate window. In one implementation, the user can save such montage authoring information for later use. Alternatively, the user can share the authoring information with other people and give them rights to edit the authoring information. The authoring information generated by a user can be converted into source code and published for wider set of users. However, in one implementation, the creator of such authoring information is allowed to restrict such public dissemination of authoring information.","Once a user has selected one or more of the montage components for inclusion in a custom montage, the user can resize the boundaries of each of such montage components using an editor engine. For example, a user can input edit commands through the GUI to drag and drop a montage component to move it around a montage, to drag and resize the boundaries of a montage component, to delete a montage component from a montage, to split a montage component into two montage components, etc. In one implementation, edit commands are entered via an in-browser editor GUI that is displayed when a user hovers over a montage component. For example, by hovering over a montage component, a user is presented with a translucent editing panel, offering vertical and horizontal splits of the montage region occupied by the montage component, deletion of the montage component, etc.","Once a user determines that he or she has completed editing a montage, the user can select an identification control  to provide information identifying the user. In response to the user's selection of the identification control , the dynamic digital montage environment  provides a pop-up menu for collecting user identifying information such as name, e-mail, etc. In one implementation, such a pop-up menu also provides the user with a selection of privacy choices.","Once the user is ready to publish a montage, the user selects a publish control  to publish the montage. Alternatively, if the user is merely interested in sharing the montage with a selected group of people (a type of limited publication), the user selects a share control  to share the montage. In such a case a pop-up menu is provided so that the user can specify the list of people who have access to the montage. In an alternative implementation, a predefined group of users, such as members of the user's social network, are automatically given access to the montage. In one implementation, each of the identification control , the publish control , and the share control  are accessible only to the creator of a montage and only during the editing mode. That is, once a montage is shared on published, these controls - will not be visible to the visitors of that montage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","302","302","302"]},"In one implementation, a link to access the gallery engine  is placed on results generated by a search engine. For example, when a user is searching for \u201cSeattle beer,\u201d the results of the search include a link that invites the user to view various montages related to Seattle beers. The gallery engine  is communicatively connected to the Internet and to the Web . In an alternative implementation, the gallery engine  is communicatively connected to one or more e-mail services  that provide the gallery engine  access to e-mail data, to one or more blogging services , to one or more social network services , local storage (not shown), etc. Depending on the access rights provided to the gallery engine  by users, the gallery engine  accesses information from the various data sources - to update the information on the montages.","The gallery engine  is communicatively connected to an editor engine . In one implementation, the editor engine  is hosted and implemented on the same server that also hosts and implements the gallery engine . However, in an alternative implementation, it is implemented on a separate server, on a cloud computing system, etc. The editor engine  stores the structural information about one or more montages on the gallery engine . For example, the editor engine  may include the source code required to publish the montages, the source code required to edit the montages, etc.","In one implementation, the editor engine  stores a number of predefined montage templates that can be used by a user to author his or her montage. Each montage template defines an editable layout of a montage. The editor engine  is adapted to update the montage templates on a periodic basis. In one implementation, the editor engine  updates the montage templates based on a ranking of the various montages from the gallery engine . The editor engine  also includes code for various montage editing service programs, which a user can employ by inputting edit command (e.g., delete, move, split section, change_topic, change_visual_style, change_component_type, etc.) through the GUI. For example, a user can select a montage or a combination of montages from the gallery engine  and use the editing service programs from the editor engine . An example of an editing service program provided by the editor engine  is a program that allows a user to change a data source attached to a montage component on a montage. Another example of an editing service program is a program that allows a user to change filter settings for an individual montage component on a montage or on an entire montage.","In one implementation, the editor engine  is communicatively coupled via a communications network to the Web , to e-mail services , to blogging services , to social network services , etc. The editor engine  also allows users to add additional programs that can be shared among other users to edit montages. For example, the editor engine  publishes information about one more application programming interfaces (APIs) for editing montages so that a user can add a new montage component or additional service that can be used by other montages. An example, of such a user provided API is a quiz montage component that can be added by the users on their montages, wherein the quiz montage component uses the data sources attached to a montage to generate dynamic quizzes for visitors to the montage.","The editor engine  is communicatively connected to a publisher engine . One or more service programs from the publisher engine  allow users to publish or share montages. A user accesses one or more of the service programs provided by the publisher engine  by selecting a Publish control or a Share control on a montage when creating the montage. The publisher engine  collects information about where the user wants to publish the montage and\/or information about who is allowed to view the montage, etc. The publisher engine  is communicatively coupled via a communications network to the Web , to the e-mail services , to the blogging services , to the social network services , etc., and it receives information from one or more of these data sources - to refresh the montage display as the data is updated and received by the montage.","Once the publisher engine  publishes a montage created by a user, such montage becomes available through the gallery engine . The montage components of a montage published on the gallery engine  communicate via the Internet or other communication network with the Web , the e-mail services , the blogging services , the social network services , etc. In one implementation, one or more of the montage components in a montage include a pull engine that pulls data. Alternatively, each of the Web , the e-mail services , the blogging services , the social network services , etc., can push data to the appropriate montage components. Alternatively, the gallery engine  gathers requests from one or more of the montage components from various montages on the gallery engine  and communicates with appropriate data sources as necessary. Because some of the data sources attached to the gallery engine  are more dynamic than others, the frequency at which data is requested from such sources varies depending on the type of the data source.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400"]},"An identification operation  identifies the topic of the montage to be created. In one implementation, the topic of the montage is received from a user via a search request. A user provides such a search request via a popular search engine, via a smart phone, etc. Alternatively, a user visits a dedicated website that hosts montages and provides the topic information via an input box. The identification operation  identifies a specific topic for a montage based on the topic received from the user. In one implementation, the topic identified by the identification operation  is not the same as that provided by the user. For example, if a user inputs the phrase \u201cJapan Earthquake,\u201d as a search request, the identification operation  analyzes the phrase based on user information, context, etc. to identify the topic as \u201cJapan Earthquake 2011.\u201d Alternatively, the identification operation  uses the exact search term as provided by the user. For example, the identification operation  will identify the topic \u201cJapan Earthquake\u201d as all earthquakes in Japan. In yet another alternative, the identification operation  suggests one or more alternative topics based on the search term.","Subsequently, an identification operation  identifies one or more layouts for creating a montage. The identification operation  uses information about the user requesting the montage, layouts of existing popular montages, layouts used by the members of the user's social network, etc. in identifying one or more layouts for creating a montage. In one implementation, the identification operation  analyzes the layouts stored on a single server engine and their rankings. However, in an alternative implementation, the identification operation  undertakes a search over a communication network to identify the up-to-date ranking of various montage layouts. In yet another implementation, the identification operation  asks the user to provide information about one or more user preferences before identifying montage layouts. For example, the identification operation  asks the user whether the user is interested in making a montage that uses a lot of rich media, whether the user is interested in making a montage that is compliant with the wireless application protocol (WAP), etc. before identifying the montage layouts.","A selecting operation  selects one of the one or more layouts identified by the identification operation . The selection operation  receives input from the user in selecting the layout. In one implementation, it is the user creating a montage that selects the montage layout and provides such selection to the selecting operation . In an alternative implementation, the selecting operation  automatically selects a montage layout based on one or more preferences identified by the user creating a montage. The selecting operation  also identifies other montage parameters, such as the background image of the selected montage, any logo to be used as a background of the montage, etc.","Subsequently, an identification operation  identifies one or more data sources related to the one or more montage components in the selected montage layout. For example, if a selected layout includes a montage component for photographs, the identification operation  identifies the sources to be used for populating such a montage component. In one implementation, the identification operation  recommends a list of possible data sources for one or more of the montage components and allows the user to select from among the recommended sources. Alternatively, a user ranks the recommended data sources to be used with one or more of the montage components.","A modifying operation  edits the selected montage by modifying one or more of the layout of the selected montage, the montage components included in the selected montage, one or more data sources, and other parameters, such as background, resolution, etc., of the selected montage. For example, once a montage is selected, the modifying operation  modifies a size and\/or placement of a montage component based on an input from the user, where size and placement define a section of the montage occupied by the montage component's display.","Subsequently, an executing operation  executes the montage. In one implementation, the executing operation  executes one or more of the montage components or any other executable code attached to the modified montage. Thus, for example, if the modified montage has a montage component that shows static pages about the montage topic from a newspaper website, the executing operation refreshes the static montage component to be populated with information from the newspaper website. As a result, the user creating the montage is able to view the actual montage as it would look like when it is published.","A publishing operation  publishes the montage. In one implementation, the publishing operation  records a particular montage to a tangible computer readable storage medium (e.g., as a self-contained blob (binary large object of HTML, JavaScript, etc.) and publishes the recorded montage after the user creating that particular montage has given the publishing operation  permission to do so. The publishing operation  publishes the montage on a dedicated website where a number of other montages are published. In an alternative implementation, publishing operation  also publishes the montage on one or more websites as identified by the user creating the montage. Publication may copy the recorded montage to another location or may transmit a reference to the recorded montage, allowing in both cases another user to access the montage.","However, in an alternative implementation, the user creating the montage only selects sharing the montage (a type of limited publication). In such implementation, a sharing operation  records a particular montage to a tangible computer readable storage medium (e.g., as a self-contained blob (binary large object of HTML, JavaScript, etc.) and shares the recorded montage to recipients specified by the user. For example, the user specifies that the montage is shared with his group of professional contacts only, in which case, a link to the montage is e-mailed to the identified group. In such an implementation, even if the montage is published on a dedicated website for montages, only members of the identified group have access to the montage and only through the link provided in the e-mail. Alternatively, the user creating the montage allows the sharing operation  to share the montage with the user's friends on a particular social network, in which case a link is added to the home page of the user on that particular social network. Sharing is a type of limited publication and may employ copying of the recorded montage to another location or transmission of a reference to the recorded montage, allowing in both cases a designated user to access the montage.","It should be understood that publication operation  and the sharing operation  may be executed in parallel, in reverse order to that shown in , or in the alternative (e.g., publishing without sharing or vice versa).","Furthermore, montages may be integrated into a search engine. For example, a user may create a montage on a trending topic and save it (or a reference thereto) to a search engine for indexing. As a result of this indexed saving operation, the search engine may return the montage (or a reference thereto) as part of its search results. In one perspective, such facility provides a search result that is itself dynamic, self-contained, and continually updating based on refreshed data received from one or more dynamic data sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","502","502"]},"For example, the analysis operation  analyzes the updated popularity ranking of the montage layout based on updated traffic data, updated visitor input, etc. Thus, the analysis operation  may determine that montages related to politics having a blue background color are more popular than those having red background color. Alternatively, analysis of the layout of various montages may show that montages having a comments montage component on the right side of the montage get more user participation than those with comment montage component on the left side of the montage.","The analysis operation  may also analyze the data sources on a periodic basis. For example, the analysis of the data sources attached to various montage components in a montage identifies that a particular data source is generating more up-to-date information than the other. Similarly, for a montage related to conflict in the Middle East, the analysis operation  identifies that using one news network as the data source results in more updates compared to using another news network as the data source. Alternatively, the analysis may find that for a particular montage component the terms of search need to be changed to keep the results presented in that montage component more current. Thus, for example, a static news montage component that was designed to give information about Academy awards may not generate enough results a few months after latest Academy awards pageant, and therefore, the search term for such as montage component should be changed to get information about new Hollywood movies, thereby improving the currency of the information presented by the montage.","Based on the results of the analysis engine, an alert operation  generates an alert to the user that created the montage. In one implementation, such an alert does not have any recommendation and just notifies the user of the result of the analysis. For example, an alert generated by the alert operation  notifies the user that there has been no visitor to the montage for the last week, or that the comment montage component has not been used by any visitor for the last month, etc.","Alternatively, a recommendation operation  generates a recommendation using the results of the analysis operation . Thus, for example, based on an analysis of a data source for a montage related to \u201cnatural disasters,\u201d the recommendation operation  generates a recommendation to change the topic of the montage to \u201ctsunami.\u201d","In response to the alert operation  or the recommendation operation , an update operation  updates the montage. Updating the montage includes without limitation updating the layout of the montage, updating or removing one or more montage components, updating data sources attached to the montage, etc. For example, in response to an alert regarding lack of visitors to a montage, a user decides to change the layout by removing the comments montage component, change the montage topic, republish the montage, etc. In such a case, the user provides appropriate instructions and\/or approvals for such changes.","Alternatively, the update operation  automatically updates the montage directly in response to the analysis operation . Thus, for example, if the analysis operation  determines that the amount of advertising revenue generated by a montage is declining, then in response to such analysis, the update operation  automatically changes one or more parameters and\/or the layout of the montage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","602","604","602","604","604"]},"A server  hosts a dynamic digital montage system. In an alternative implementation, the server  also hosts a website that users visit to view one or more montages. Alternatively, a cloud system  hosts one or more of the montages, the dynamic digital montage system, the montage modification system, etc. The user devices , the server , the cloud system , as well as other resources connected to the Internet  access servers , , and  for getting access to various websites, user e-mails, blogs, micro-blogs, social networks, etc. In one implementation, the server  hosts a search engine that is accessed by a user using one of the user devices . In response to such a search request, the search engine generates a Web page including, among other things, a link to the dynamic digital montage system hosted on server . A user can access the dynamic digital montage system by selecting such a link.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["20","20","21","22","23","21","21","20","20"]},"The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, a switched fabric, point-to-point connections, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as simply the memory, and includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) , containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in ROM . The computer  further includes a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk  such as a CD ROM, DVD, or other optical media.","The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface , and an optical disk drive interface , respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program engines and other data for the computer . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any type of computer-readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs), and the like, may be used in the example operating environment.","A number of program engines may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM , or RAM , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program engines , and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device . Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a serial port interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port, or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as speakers and printers.","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as remote computer . These logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of the computer ; the invention is not limited to a particular type of communications device. The remote computer  may be another computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a local-area network (LAN)  and a wide-area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in office networks, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet, which are all types of networks.","When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer  is connected to the local network  through a network interface or adapter , which is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem , a network adapter, a type of communications device, or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the wide area network . The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to the system bus  via the serial port interface . In a networked environment, program engines depicted relative to the personal computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It is appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","In an example implementation, a dynamic digital montage environment or system, a gallery engine, an editor engine, a publishing engine, and other engines and services may be embodied by instructions stored in memory  and\/or storage devices  or  and processed by the processing unit . A data from dynamic and static data sources, predefined montage templates, predefined montages, images, videos, tweets, and other data may be stored in memory  and\/or storage devices  or  as persistent datastores. Further, a forwarding service and an ad service represent hardware and\/or software configured to provide service functionality for network-connected systems. Such services may be implemented using a general purpose computer and specialized software (such as a server executing service software), a special purpose computing system and specialized software (such as a mobile device or network appliance executing service software), or other computing configurations.","The embodiments of the invention described herein are implemented as logical steps in one or more computer systems. The logical operations of the present invention are implemented (1) as a sequence of processor-implemented steps executing in one or more computer systems and (2) as interconnected machine or circuit engines within one or more computer systems. The implementation is a matter of choice, dependent on the performance requirements of the computer system implementing the invention. Accordingly, the logical operations making up the embodiments of the invention described herein are referred to variously as operations, steps, objects, or engines. Furthermore, it should be understood that logical operations may be performed in any order, unless explicitly claimed otherwise or a specific order is inherently necessitated by the claim language.","The above specification, examples, and data provide a complete description of the structure and use of exemplary embodiments of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended. Furthermore, structural features of the different embodiments may be combined in yet another embodiment without departing from the recited claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
