---
title: Determine video to play with audio
abstract: Example embodiments disclosed herein relate to determining video to play based on audio. Videos associated with the audio are determined. One of the videos to play with the audio is determined based on analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219900&OS=09219900&RS=09219900
owner: HEWLETT PACKARD DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, L.P.
number: 09219900
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111027
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7371 of PCT\/US2011\/058136, filed Oct. 27, 2011.","Service providers are challenged to deliver quality and value to consumers, for example by providing audio services. Music and other audible content are presented on various devices today such as media players, phones, and other computing devices. These devices may play audible content stored on the device or stored at another location, for example, via streaming.","Users of devices today continually consume media. For example, users utilize their mobile phones, tablets, computers, set top boxes, etc. to listen to audio and\/or to view visual content. In certain examples, users may stream audio and\/or visual content onto their devices or play the audio and\/or visual content from downloaded files. Some websites, such as YouTube\u2122 and HULU cater to streaming video, which may be associated with a concurrent audio stream.","Some users, however, may choose to listen to audio files on a user's device or streaming onto the device. These files may be associated with a playlist. In certain embodiments, a playlist is a list of content. Further, an audio playlist can be a list of audio content. The audio content can be, for example, audio files, streaming audio from a source such as a cloud, or the like. Further, in one example, the playlist can be made and\/or customized by a user. In another example, the playlist can be associated with a radio station such as an Internet radio station. Moreover, the audio content can be streamed over the Internet or played off of a file stored on a memory of the user's device.","While listening to such audio content, a user may wish to be visually entertained. Standard players may display album art, audio information (e.g., title, artist, etc.), or the like while playing audio. However, the user may desire something more visually compelling and related to the music to be displayed during playback of the audio content.","Accordingly, various embodiments disclosed herein relate to correlating video files, such as streaming video media, with the audio content. The audio content can be played on the user's device while the associated video content is also played on the device. The correlating video files can also be customized for the user. This customization can be based on feedback of playing video media by the user and\/or other users. Feedback from other users can include feedback of what videos are most popular. Further, the feedback can be used to determine whether tags or other information associated with the videos are reliable. Moreover, feedback from the user can include whether the user likes a particular video that has been selected to play with audio the user is listening to. When the feedback is received, attributes associated with the video can be reviewed and used for future scoring of videos. Scores determined for videos can be used to determine a video file to associate with particular audio content.","With these approaches, a user may be able to listen to an audio track of a playlist and simultaneously view an associated music video and\/or other content that can be associated with the audio track. As noted, the selection of the video can be customized for the user. As such, user feedback can be used to train the system to provide video that the user wishes to see. Further, different playlists can be associated with different customizations. For example, playlists associated with music may be geared more towards music videos and\/or live shows while playlists associated with podcasts can be associated with related media such as sports, gardening, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","104","106","104","102","108","106","102","104","104","108","102","104","108"],"i":["a","n ","a","n"]},"The music platform  can provide access to music content or other audible content to devices  of users. The users can use respective media players -on respective devices -to present the audible content, for example, via a speaker or earphone. The audible content can be encoded via a digital rights management (DRM) scheme. In certain examples, the music platform  can include audio  that can be downloaded to or streamed to the devices . As such, the music platform  can provide an interface, such as a web interface or an Application Programming Interface (API) to the device  to provide the audio . The device  can execute an application, such as a media player  to download and play and\/or stream the audio .","In certain scenarios, the audio  can be played based on a playlist . In one example, the playlist  is located on the music platform . In another example, the playlist  can be stored at the device . In certain embodiments, a playlist is a list of audio content. As such, the playlist  may point to the audio  on the music platform  and\/or stored on the device . Multiple playlists  can be stored and shared by the music platform . Further, playlists  can be created and stored for individual users. Moreover, playlists  can include lists of audio  represented as radio stations. As such, a disk jockey can generate a playlist  or multiple playlists  for the radio station and the user can use that playlist  on the user's device . Further, the playlist  can be generated based on criteria, such as one or multiple artists, genres, songs, etc. Similarities between audio content can be used in the selection of the playlist .","A user can use the media player  to playa playlist  on the user's device . In certain scenarios, the device can include a display. The display can allow for the device to present video content to the user. The music platform  can have knowledge of one or more songs or other audio content in the queue for the user. The knowledge can be because the playlist  is on the music platform , if the device  transmits the information to the music platform , or the like.","The music platform  can search for video content associated with the audio content in the queue. As such, the music platform  can use a web crawler  to search internet content platforms  for video content  that may be associated with the audio content. In certain examples, a web crawler  is a set of instructions that cause a computing device to browse the World Wide Web in a methodical, automated approach. The web crawler  can search known media sites, such as YouTube\u2122, HULU, etc. for video content  such as streaming video or other video files. Further, the media sites can be parts of one or more internet content platforms .","In certain examples, the search can be used to generate a database of information. The information can include attributes associated with the video content . The attributes can be associated with the web pages the video content  was found on. In certain examples, an attribute is information describing the video content . As such, an attribute may include an artist name, genre associated with the video content , identifiers such as names, tags, uploader information, reviews, other words on an associated web page, etc. When the playlist  is being played, the next audio content and\/or multiple audio content on the playlist  can be associated with video content. In one example, the association can be based on a comparison of descriptive information of the audio , such as an artist name, a genre, a track title, an album name, tags, etc. with the attributes. In another example, the association can be based on an analysis of audio associated with the video contents. For example, a hash table  can be generated to determine associations of audible information between the audio  on the playlist  and audible content associated with the video content . As such, in certain scenarios, the video content  can be associated if the audible content associated with the video content  includes at least a portion of the audio . Further, multiple video files or other video content  can be found during the search that matches with the audio . As such, an analysis can be used to determine which video file to play with the audio  on the user's device .","In certain examples, an analysis of the linguistic content can be used to score how good and\/or how related the video content  is to the audio . More closely related video content  can score better. Further, the scoring can be based, at least in part, on user feedback.","When searching, the web pages associated with the video content  can be processed for information such as linguistic content. In certain embodiments, linguistic content includes words that can be processed for useful information. The words can be processed using a linguistic analysis. In certain examples, a linguistic analysis is a study of human language. The analysis can use language structure to decipher meaning from the words and syntax. For example, a sentence on a web page associated with particular video content  saying \u201cthis music video is a fake\u201d can be associated with a negative score or a diminishing score. Further, video content  may be screened for appropriateness for the user based on user preferences, user demographics, the number of views of the video content, feedback by the user, feedback by other users, or the like.","Other information, such as the attributes can also be used in scoring. A description of the audio  can be compared with attributes during the scoring. Matches between the description and the attributes can be used to determine a better score. Additionally, multiple views of the video content  can help the score and reflect on the worthiness of the video content  to be played. Moreover, good feedback to the video content  can improve scores.","In certain examples, an analysis of the linguistic content can be used to adjust how attributes are treated. For example, when video content  is chosen to be presented to a user and is presented to a user during audio playback, the user can determine a rating for the video, for example, bad, good, medium, a numerical value, etc.","If the associated video is negatively rated, in the future, ratings associated with one or more of the attributes and\/or linguistic content can be scored differently and\/or weighted differently. For example, if a particular user is the uploader of the video content chosen and the video content is rated negatively, future video content associated with the uploader can be scored poorly. Further, if the uploader is negatively reviewed multiple times, the uploader's videos may be filtered and\/or an attribute associated with the uploader may be associated with a negative score that may be amplified. Similarly, good reviews can be used to associate the uploader with better scores. The example of an uploader is used in this scenario, however, other types of attributes can be used for such scoring.","Once each of the video media that may be related to the audio  is scored, the music platform  can select one of the video media for playback with the audio . The selection can be based on which of the video media has the best score. The best score may, for example, be the greatest score, the lowest score, the closest score to a range, or the like.","The access to the video media can then be facilitated by the music platform . In one example, the music platform  may buffer the video media from the internet content platform  and provide the video media to the device . In another example, the music platform  can provide a link to the video media to the device . The media player  on the device  can then retrieve (e.g., via a download or streaming data) the content from the Internet content platform . The media player  can thus playback the audio  with the video media. In certain examples, the video media is muted during playback so that the video media provides visual information displayed on the device  and the audio  provides audible information presented by the device .","During playback, the user can provide feedback about the audio, the video media, or a combination thereof. In certain examples, feedback to the video can be used to change scoring of the video playing and\/or the scoring of future visual media. In other examples, a separate scoring and analysis system can be associated with feedback that may be directed towards the audio. For example, if the user is using a custom playlist, the user may already like the audio content and feedback can be associated with how the user likes the video that is played with the audio. Separate feedback inputs may be provided to the user for the audio, the video, the combination, etc. Further, when a video is targeted with negative playback, another video can be provided (e.g., the next best scoring video). Moreover, the audio  can continue to be played back during the change in video media. Additionally, the new video media played can be synchronized to start near the location in playback that the audio  is at. Such an action may be customized based on a user preference.","Moreover, analysis for the next track on the playlist  can be performed while playback of the current audio track occurs. Further, in certain examples, the music platform  may compile lists of possible video media that may be associated with each of the audio tracks known to the music platform . Scoring can be performed during playback of the playlist, when the playlist is created, or the like. Further, the rescoring can be performed based on new feedback by the user.","The communication network  can use wired communications, wireless communications, or combinations thereof. Further, the communication network  can include multiple sub communication networks such as data networks, wireless networks, telephony networks, etc. Such networks can include, for example, a public data network such as the Internet, local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), metropolitan area networks (MANS), cable networks, fiber optic networks, combinations thereof, or the like. In certain examples, wireless networks may include cellular networks, satellite communications, wireless LANs, etc. Further, the communication network  can be in the form of a direct network link between devices. Various communications structures and infrastructure can be utilized to implement the communication network(s).","By way of example, the music platform , the devices , and the internet content platform  communicate with each other and other components with access to the communication network  via a communication protocol or multiple protocols. A protocol can be a set of rules that defines how nodes of the communication network  interact with other nodes. Further, communications between network nodes can be implemented by exchanging discrete packets of data or sending messages. Packets can include header information associated with a protocol (e.g., information on the location of the network node(s) to contact) as well as payload information. A program or application executing on the devices , the music platform , or the internet content platform  can utilize one or more layers of communication to utilize the messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B","b":["200","200","200","200","200","200","210","212","214","216","200","218","230","232","234"],"i":["a","b ","a","b ","a ","b "]},"A user can use a device to playback audio. The audio can be associated with a music platform that can be implemented using a computing system . The computing system can store information as to what audio is playing on the device, what audio is going to be played on the device, or the like. In the case of a local playlist stored at the device, the device can transmit the information to the computing system . In certain scenarios, the computing system  and the device can synchronize using a user account. As such, the computing system  can have user profiles, user histories, user feedback, and the like in a database.","Audio selector  can select audio associated with the user or the user's device. The selected audio can be used for playback to the user. In certain scenarios, the selection can occur by receiving information from the user's device (e.g., playlist information). In other scenarios, the playlist or a radio station associated with the audio can be selected at the computing device . In these scenarios, the selected audio can be based on a queue of audio tracks to be presented to the user via the user's device. The audio tracks can be streamed to the user's device, can be previously downloaded to the user's device, can be downloaded before playback, or the like. In some scenarios, audio tracks can be associated with unique identifiers (e.g., a serial number) or other identifiers such as artist, album, album track number, publishing date, etc. that can be used to identify the audio track. When the selected audio is being played back to the user, the user may wish to view an associated video. The video can be downloaded and\/or streaming.","The computing system  can use the web crawler  to search for video media on the Internet, for example, via the World Wide Web. In one example, the web crawler  can search through streaming media sites to catalog available streaming video. Certain embodiments described herein may be focused on streaming video; however, it is contemplated that other types of visual content and video transfer capabilities can be used. As noted above, the web crawler  can browse the World Wide Web in a methodical manner. Further, the web crawler  can generate a database that is stored in memory . The database can include a link to the streaming media or other video content. Moreover, the database can include a list of attributes, in this scenario, an attribute can be information describing the streaming video. Information on a web page associated with the streaming video can be used as attributes or to determine attributes. As such, an attribute may include an artist name, genre associated with the streaming video, identifiers such as names, tags, uploader information, reviews, user ratings, other user feedback, artist influences, other words on an associated web page, combinations of words, etc.","In certain examples, combinations of words can be analyzed using a linguistic analysis to make up an attribute. For example, a review section of a streaming video web page may include comments such as \u201cAwesome Video,\u201d \u201cHorrible Band,\u201d or \u201cHorrible Lighting.\u201d These combinations can be considered attributes. In certain scenarios, certain keywords, such as modifiers (e.g., awesome, horrible, good, great, bad, etc.) can be used to determine the attribute. For example, when the word \u201cgood\u201d is found, an analysis of the linguistics may be used to determine what is \u201cgood.\u201d This can be used in scoring and determining which streaming video to present to the user.","The database of locations of streaming videos and associated attributes can be updated via the web crawler . Further, the database can be split into smaller databases. In one example, the database may include a collection of databases each associated with particular audio content. In another example, one database can include pointers from each audio track to possibly associated streaming videos. Further, another database may include the attributes associated with each streaming video. Various ways can be used to implement the database(s). Moreover, the updating of the attributes and\/or locations of streaming video can be performed by the web crawler  in a methodical manner. In certain scenarios, associations between streaming videos and audio content can occur based on analysis and comparisons between the attributes and information describing the audio tracks. As such, the web crawler  can be used to search for multiple options of streaming video associated with audio, including the selected audio.","Once audio is selected, the scoring module  can be used to score each of the associated streaming videos. This can be done to determine how appropriate the streaming video is for the user. As such, the scoring module  can perform a statistical analysis on the attributes to score each of the streaming videos based, at least in part, on feedback of the user.","Various ways can be used to score the streaming videos. In one example, the attributes can be individually scored by assigning a value to attributes. In this example, scoring can be composed around a rule that the higher the value, the more likely the user will like to view the streaming video. As such, the streaming video with the highest score may be used. In certain embodiments, some attributes can be associated with negative numbers. For example, if the user repeatedly provides feedback that the user does not like streaming video associated with a particular attribute (e.g., an uploader, a website, a type of streaming video such as music video, television show, etc., linguistic content associating the video with poor lighting, etc.), then negative partial scores can be associated with the attribute. Additionally or alternatively, a weighting (e.g., a multiplier on the attribute partial scores) can be used. In a similar manner, partial scores associated with favorable reviews can be raised and\/or weighted more. Additionally, in certain scenarios, some weighting and\/or alterations to scoring of the attributes can be associated with the particular playlist, while others can be associated with the user. This can be useful, for example, if the user likes watching particular types of streaming videos when listening to one playlist and other types of streaming videos when listening to another playlist.","The analysis module  then determines one of the streaming videos to play with the selected audio based on the respective scores of the streaming videos. The streaming video with the most favorable score can selected for playback. Partial scores associated with each of the attributes can be added together to generate a total score for each of the streaming videos. Further, attributes may be filtered during the scoring process.","In certain examples, the computing system  can use input\/output interfaces  to transmit the streaming video and\/or transmit a link to the streaming video. In certain scenarios, a media player on the user's device can receive the link and play the video along with the audio. In one scenario, the link can be sent along with an instruction to cause playback of the video with the audio. In this manner, the user need not see the link, but is able to view the streaming video content.","Once playback of the selected audio and the associated streaming video occurs on the user's device, the user can be allowed to provide additional feedback on the streaming video, the audio, combinations thereof, etc. When feedback is provided, the feedback can be transmitted from the user's device to the computing system . When feedback is received by the feedback module , scoring of attributes can be reevaluated and changed if necessary. In certain examples, when a negative feedback is received about the streaming video, the streaming video can be stopped and the next video associated with the audio can be played. Further, in certain scenarios, feedback can be based on questions posed to the user about what the user like and\/or dislikes. This feedback can be used as a training set to score attributes.","As such, feedback received by the feedback module  can be used to customize future streaming video for the user and\/or the user's playlist. The audio selector  can select a second audio track (e.g., via the playlist or a radio station). The web crawler  can search the Internet for a second set of streaming videos associated with the second audio track. The search may have occurred previously and a database may be used to determine the associated streaming videos. The each of the streaming videos of the second set of streaming videos is also respectively associated with one or more attributes. As such, the scoring module  can associate a score with each of the attributes based on the user's history as well as the user's recent feedback. Scores can be determined for each of the streaming videos of the second set. The scores can be based on partial scores for each of the attributes. The analysis module  can further determine one of the streaming videos of the second set to play with the selected second audio track based on the associated scores. The computing system  can then facilitate access to the determined streaming video for the user's device.","A processor , such as a central processing unit (CPU) or a microprocessor suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions and\/or electronic circuits can be configured to perform the functionality of any of the modules , , , ,  described herein. In certain scenarios, instructions and\/or other information, such as streaming video information, attribute information, etc. can be included in memory  or other memory. Input\/output interfaces  may additionally be provided by the computing system . For example, input devices , such as a keyboard, a touch interface, a mouse, a microphone, etc. can be utilized to receive input from an environment surrounding the computing system . Further, an output device , such as a display or speaker, can be utilized to present information to users. Examples of output devices include speakers, display devices, amplifiers, etc. Moreover, in certain embodiments, some components can be utilized to implement functionality of other components described herein.","Each of the modules - may include, for example, hardware devices including electronic circuitry for implementing the functionality described herein. In addition or as an alternative, each module - may be implemented as a series of instructions encoded on a machine-readable storage medium of computing system  and executable by processor . It should be noted that, in some embodiments, some modules are implemented as hardware devices, while other modules are implemented as executable instructions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","200","300","102","500","300","300","300"]},"Method  may start at , where a user uses a device to playback audio. The audio can be associated with a playlist on the device and\/or a playlist on the computing system . If the audio is based on a playlist on the device, the playlist and\/or a subset of the playlist can be transmitted to the computing system. The method can then proceed to , where an audio selector  of computing system  may select audio for playback to a user. The selection can occur in preparation for the playback to the user. If the device controls the playlist, the selection can be based on information received from the device. If the computing system  controls the playlist, the audio is determined based on playlist information stored at the computing system .","Then, at , the computing system  determines multiple streaming video media that is associated with the selected audio based on a site crawler. In certain embodiments, a site crawler searches the Internet in a methodical way for the streaming video media. The site crawler can determine link information to allow a user device with Internet access to retrieve the streaming video content. Further, the site crawler can determine linguistic content in web pages associated with the streaming video content. The linguistic content can be used to determine attributes. Moreover, attributes can be determined from other information accessible to the site crawler, such as tags, author information, etc. Linguistic content can include words that are associated with web pages associated with the streaming video media. As such, linguistic content can include a tag, a comment, author information, a number of views of the streaming video media, viewer demographics, an artist, an album, a genre, feedback and reviews of other users, combinations thereof, etc.","The determination of the streaming video media can be based on comparisons of attributes and description information of the audio with the linguistic content, the attributes associated with the streaming video media, or the like. In some embodiments, the determination of the streaming video media can also be based, at least in part, on a comparison of audible content associated with the selected audio and audible content included in the streaming video media. For example, an analysis of words in the audible content of the audio and the streaming video media can be compared, an audio fingerprint of the two can be compared, or other technologies can be used to determine how close audio is between the streaming video media and one or more audio tracks. As such, the determination can be based on a determination that the streaming video media includes audible content (e.g., words, a rhythm, etc.) associated with or within the selected audio.","The determination of the streaming video media associated with the audio can occur before the audio is selected. For example, a database can be kept and updated that determines the list of associated streaming video media. As noted, the updating can be based on the site crawler.","Then, at , an analysis module  can determine one of the streaming video media to play with the selected audio based on a linguistic analysis of the linguistic content and a user history. In this scenario, the linguistic content can be processed to determine attributes. As detailed above, the attributes can be scored. The scoring can further be based on a user history. In certain embodiments, a user history includes feedback of the user of the device or an account associated with the user of the device. As such, the determination of the one streaming video medium can be customized for the user.","The determined access to the streaming video media can then be provided to the user's device, for example, during playback of the audio. In certain scenarios, the providing can occur by sending a link associated with the streaming video medium to the user's device. The link can be packaged using an API to automatically play when the user's device plays the selected audio. Further, the link can be sent before the selected audio is played back so it can be cached. In one scenario, the computing system  can provide an instruction to mute the video and allow the selected audio to be audible in a media player of the device. In another scenario, the computing system can receive the video stream and combine the video stream and the audio stream of the selected audio to provide to the user's device. In other scenarios, the media player can control the audible streams. The method  stops at . The computing system  can continue to perform other processes, such as monitoring playlists, crawling the web for updates to video content, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","200","400","102","500","400","400","400"]},"Method  may start at , where the computing system  is in a state where a user has initiated use of a program on the user's device to listen to audio of a playlist while receiving video media. The computing system  determines audio for playback to the user. Then, at , the computing system  determines video media associated with selected audio, for example, as implemented in .","At , a scoring module  scores each of the video media (e.g., streaming video media) based on a linguistic analysis and feedback as detailed above. The feedback can be associated with the user and can be part of a user history. In certain scenarios, at least some of the feedback can be specific to the playlist. In other scenarios, at least some of the feedback can be specific to a user. The analysis module  can then determine or select one of the video media based on the scoring as described above.","At , the computing system  can provide access to the video media during playback of the selected audio. In one example, providing access to streaming video media can be implemented by sending a link to the user's device. The link can be sent as part of an API to automatically start the video when the selected audio is played. In another example, the user can open access to the computing system  using a web browser. The web page shown to the user can have embedded the selected audio and the video media for simultaneous playback. In certain examples, simultaneous playback can include playback of both the selected audio and at least part of the video media at the same time. In yet another example, the user can receive the actual video files from the computing system  or a link to another platform where the user's device can download the files. As such, the user's device can play the determined audio and the video together.","Options can be provided to the user for feedback about the audio, the video, or a combination thereof. The user can input the feedback (e.g., a good response, a bad response, a numerical or selectable rating, etc.). The feedback is then sent to the computing system . At , the computing system  receives the additional feedback about the video media.","Then, at , the scoring module  can perform future scoring based at least in part of the additional feedback. Further, the additional feedback can be used to train the linguistic analysis to score the linguistic content respectively associated with the video media. This can occur by determining the attributes associated with the video media and either altering or weighting the attributes' values based on the feedback. At , the method  stops. Other processes of the computing system  can continue. For example, the computing system  can continue to crawl the web for additional video media, continue to monitor playlists, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","520","522","524","526","528","500"]},"Processor  may be, at least one central processing unit (CPU), at least one semiconductor-based microprocessor, at least one graphics processing unit (CPU), other hardware devices suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions stored in machine-readable storage medium , or combinations thereof. For example, the processor  may include multiple cores on a chip, include multiple cores across multiple chips, multiple cores across multiple devices (e.g., if the computing device  includes multiple node devices), or combinations thereof. Processor  may fetch, decode, and execute instructions , , ,  to implement methods , . As an alternative or in addition to retrieving and executing instructions, processor  may include at least one integrated circuit (IC), other control logic, other electronic circuits, or combinations thereof that include a number of electronic components for performing the functionality of instructions -.","Machine-readable storage medium  may be any electronic, magnetic, optical, or other physical storage device that contains or stores executable instructions. Thus, machine-readable storage medium may be, for example, Random Access Memory (RAM), an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), a storage drive, a Compact Disc Read Only Memory (CD-ROM), and the like. As such, the machine-readable storage medium can be non-transitory. As described in detail herein, machine-readable storage medium  may be encoded with a series of executable instructions for providing access to a video file for simultaneous playback with audio.","Audio instructions  can be executed by the processor  to determine audio to playback to a user based on a playlist of a user account. The user account can be used to associate a user, a user history, user feedback, user playlists, user radio stations, etc. with the user. The user can use a personal device to access content services from the computing device . The audio can be determined from a queue of the playlist. For example, the audio can be the next audio track queued on the playlist.","The processor  can execute search instruction  to search the Internet for video files associated with the audio. In some examples, the video files can be streaming video files. In other examples the video files can be downloadable or other types of video files. In certain scenarios, the search can be implemented via a web crawler and a database can be generated associating the video files and associated attributes\/linguistic content with the audio track and\/or other audio tracks. When the audio track is determined, a set of the video files can be determined that the user may wish to view in conjunction with the audio track. As detailed above, the video files can each be associated with one or more attributes. Further, the attributes can include one or more words included on respective web pages from which the respective video files are found.","Analysis instructions  can be used to score the video files of the set based on their respective attributes. As detailed above, the scoring can be based, at least in part, on historical feedback associated with the user account. The feedback can be used to score respective attributes associated with each of the video files. In certain scenarios, the scores of the attributes can be added together or otherwise processed (e.g., averaging, weighting, normalizing, etc.) to generate a score for each of the respective video files. The computing device  can then determine one of the video files to play with the audio track during playback of the audio track based on the scores. The best score amongst the video files can be selected.","Provisioning instructions  can be executed by the processor  to provide access to the video file. In one example, the access can be provided by sending the user's device the video file. In another example, the access can be facilitated by providing a link to the video file or a location to stream the video content associated with the video file. The link can be provided via an embedded web page or via an API interacting with an application of the user's device to trigger viewing of the video file in conjunction with the determined audio track.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","602","604","606","602","608","1","610"]},"As noted above, when the user device  is playing a playlist , the audio tracks, such as songs, podcasts, etc., on the playlist  can be known by a computing system, such as an audio platform or music platform. The audio tracks can be streamed and\/or downloaded before being played. Video files associated with one or more of the audio tracks can be determined by the platform. The platform can then facilitate access to a video file or multiple video files that the platform determines is associated with the audio track as described above. In certain scenarios, the access can be in the form of a file location for the user device  to download and\/or stream from. Further, the user device  can include a programming interface to communicate with the platform to allow for video to be displayed automatically based on the received location information of the video file.","In this example, song  can be selected and access to a video can be provided in the video area . The video area  may also provide the user with feedback options . Other options, such as a full screen video option , can also be available to the user. In one scenario, if a feedback option  selected is good, description information  and\/or other attributes associated with the video can be processed as being good attributes. Further, if the feedback option  selected is bad, the description information  and\/or other attributes associated with the video can be processed as being bad or unwanted attributes. A running tally of wanted and\/or unwanted attributes can be used in scoring. Additionally, certain attributes, such as uploader, title, website associated with the video file, etc. can be weighted more. Future selection of the video to display on the video area  can be based on the received feedback."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following detailed description references the drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
