---
title: Rotational variable pyrotechnic delay selector for munitions
abstract: A rotational variable pyrotechnic delay selector for munitions which permits the selection of various ignition delays. Advantageously, the variable delay selector is configurable for a variety of field conditions and targets and is adaptable to a number of munitions systems and pyrotechnic ignition mixtures and delays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08381651&OS=08381651&RS=08381651
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08381651
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110901
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","This disclosure relates generally to the field of munitions. More particularly, it pertains to an apparatus and method for providing a variable delay to the detonation of munitions such that it exhibits a user-selectable range.","Contemporary munitions utilize a pyrotechnic delay that exhibits only a single engagement range. Consequently, different munitions exhibiting a different delay are required to engage targets at different downfield range(s). As a result, the transportation and logistics of range specific munitions is required.","An advance in the art is made according to an aspect of the present disclosure directed to a rotational variable pyrotechnic delay selector for munitions.","Viewed from a first aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a rotational variable delay selector comprising a body which houses multiple pyrotechnic delay column mixtures and a rotating selector which rotates about the body thereby selecting a particular delay characteristic. An exemplary embodiment of the rotational variable selector comprises the body containing a number of different delay column mixtures, and a rotational selector rotatable around the body such that upon rotating the selector around the body an igniter mixture is aligned with one of the delay column mixtures thereby imparting the particular delay characteristic.","The following merely illustrates the principles of the disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which, although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.","Furthermore, all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor(s) to furthering the art, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.","Moreover, all statements herein reciting principles, aspects, and embodiments of the disclosure, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such equivalents include both currently-known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of structure.","Thus, for example, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative structures embodying the principles of the disclosure.","With reference now to , there is shown a schematic diagram of an exemplary rotational variable pyrotechnic delay selector  according to an aspect of the present disclosure. As shown, an exemplary delay selector  according to the present disclosure generally includes a body  which contains the pyrotechnic delay compositions\/mixtures\u2014as well as other components to be shown later\u2014and a rotating selector  which is rotatable around the body . As may be appreciated, and according to an aspect of the present disclosure, by rotating the selector  a variable amount of delay may be imparted to the particular munition to which the selector is integrated. Range label(s)  and an indicator arrow  provide visual feedback to an operator indicative of the amount of delay selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["1","4","3","3","3"]},"Rotating selector  includes an igniter mixture  which rotates along with the selector . When the rotating selector  is rotated relative to the body , the igniter mixture  is aligned with a different one of the delay column mixtures  such that the aligned mixture becomes part of the ignition train (the igniter mixture and delay column mixture). Consequently, different delay characteristics of the munition are selectable by rotating the selector.","As may be further observed by inspection of , various mechanical components i.e., the ball and spring plunger  and the body clip  are used to secure the selector  in a rotated position and to the body  respectively. Various seals , ,  and  serve to seal the energetic mixtures and isolate them from the environment. Those skilled in the art will immediately appreciate that a variety of mechanical rotatable mechanisms are contemplated by this disclosure and it should not be limited to the particular exemplary embodiment shown in this  or the others. In particular, any of a variety of known sealing mechanisms, locking mechanisms, and\/or retaining mechanisms are contemplated for the body and the rotating selector and the components contained therein. Such variations are merely a matter of design choice and\/or manufacturing convenience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["2","12","13","2","13","2","13","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["1","14","4","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["2","1","16","25","2","1","8","2","2"]},"With these components now described, an operational discussion may proceed with simultaneous reference to . As may be appreciated, a munition including an exemplary rotational variable delay selector according to the present disclosure may be understood.","Prior to the munition being chambered into a weapon system, a user will index the rotating selector  so that a desired range label  is aligned with an indicator arrow  on the body  of the delay system. Once aligned, a ball and spring plunger  will engage a mating groove  formed on an inner surface of the rotating selector .","As a result of this rotational alignment of the selector  with the body , an igniter mixture  will be aligned with a particular corresponding delay column mixture  specific to the engagement range chosen by the user. Upon ignition of the overall munition, all of the delay column mixtures  will be ignited and burn the specific rate they were designed for. The igniter mixture  is ignited when the delay column mixture  that is lined up with the igniter mixture  completes its designed burn time. As may be appreciated\u2014the resulting ignition train is a combination of the igniter mixture  and the particular column mixture  in alignment with that mixture.","To prevent any of the unselected delay column mixtures  from igniting the igniter mixture , delay column seals  are inserted between the body  and the rotating selector . To prevent contamination by outside particles or moisture, a body seal  is assembled over the body , as well as seal disks  and igniter seal disks , which are placed over the end of the delay column holder  and igniter sleeve  respectively.","The delay column holder  and igniter sleeve  are preferably made of a material exhibiting sufficient structural integrity and thermal insulating characteristics so as to control burn rates by minimizing any heat loss through the outer walls. As may be appreciated by those skilled in the art, any of a variety of metallic, composite, plastic or other materials may provide such characteristics.","Fixed start and stop points for the rotational selector  are provided by a rotational stop block  which is positioned on the inner surface of the rotating selector  and rides along the rotating stop groove  that is formed into the top of the body . In order to secure the body  to the rotating selector , the rotating selector  is pressed over the body  in axial alignment until a body clip  on the body  is sufficiently inserted into a clip groove  on the rotating selector .","At this point, while we have discussed and described exemplary embodiments and configurations of the rotational variable pyrotechnic delay selector for munitions, those skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of variations to those described are possible and contemplated. For example, the delay selector is variable in size and therefore is adaptable to any of a number of different caliber sized munitions while providing the same functionality. Additionally, any of a variety of sufficient igniter and\/or delay column pyrotechnic mixtures are contemplated and are all within a matter of design choice. Similarly, material construction is variable as well and any of a number of known materials and\/or techniques may be employed in constructing variable delay selectors for munitions. Accordingly, the disclosure should be viewed as limited only by the scope of the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["A more complete understanding of the present disclosure may be realized by reference to the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
