---
title: Test framework extension for testing logic on a modeled user interface
abstract: A testing framework extension may be provided. An application comprising a form may be created within a modeling framework. A variable associated with the form may be defined and an application programming interface (API) may be created according to the form. A test case may be efficiently executed without rendering a physical UI using the variable by making at least one call to the API thus exercising (at least one part of) the form logic and a result of executing the test case may be reported to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563543&OS=09563543&RS=09563543
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09563543
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["A test framework extension may be provided. User interface (UI) development, like most software development, often requires rigorous testing prior to release. In conventional systems, testing application logic associated with a user interface requires a great deal of automation overhead in order to simulate a user's actions within the user interface. For example, some situations may involve a separate testing framework designed to interact with the actual UI elements. Such a testing framework exposes an Application Programming Interface (API) to the actual UI elements, and the test code needs to assume the existence of each element, which is often realized by transforming the form definition to get a strongly typed programming model for the test code. Further, logic is often coupled to UI elements, complicating attempts to separately test the UI functionality and the back end business logic. Thus, conventional testing is often slow and error prone, with test cases written against a physically rendered UI rather than the critical logic.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Nor is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter's scope.","A testing framework extension may be provided. An application comprising a form may be created within a modeling framework. A variable associated with the form may be defined and an application programming interface (API) may be surfaced according to the form. A test case may use the variable by making at least one call to the API and a result of executing the test case may be reported to a user.","Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description provide examples and are explanatory only. Accordingly, the foregoing general description and the following detailed description should not be considered to be restrictive. Further, features or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example, embodiments may be directed to various feature combinations and sub-combinations described in the detailed description.","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described, modifications, adaptations, and other implementations are possible. For example, substitutions, additions, or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings, and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting, reordering, or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly, the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead, the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.","A development environment, such as the Microsoft\u00ae Dynamics NAV Client\/Server Integrated Development Environment (C\/SIDE), may allow tests to be written against a model of a form. A test form may be declared based on a modeled form that may access controls, actions, elements, etc. on the real form. The test form may also perform data-navigation (e.g., moving to a next row, apply search filters, etc.). The tests written in this framework may be validated (i.e., compile-checked) against the model when compiled. A runtime component (e.g., on a Microsoft\u00ae Dynamics NAV server) may utilize a logical client to create a non-visual, in-process form runtime that the test can be executed against.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","110","120","130","110","130","120","135","140","145","120","150","160","120","190","140","110","135","110","120","155","155","140","145","150","140","145","170","110","115","140","145","135","180","135","190","120","140","155","160","140","120","130","170","115","170","115","115","170","145","190","140","120","110","135","170","180","170","180","180","170","145"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","200","300","200","200","205","210","300","300","120","145","110","135","200","220","300","160","120","160","155","140","135","110","120","120"]},"If a dependency relationship is derived between at least one first logical representation and at least one second logical representation, then application server process  may define a variable and\/or data accessor method associated with the logical model of the user interface. For example, one form element may comprise a country selector. Another form element, such as a sub-region (e.g., state\/province) may comprise a dependency relationship on the country selector such that only certain entries in the dependent form element may be considered valid according to the selection in the first form element. Upon receiving a data input to the country selector via test display target  and\/or user client , sub-region data may be populated into the second form element from database .","Method  may then advance to stage  where computing device  may receive a test case associated with the user interface. For example, the test case may comprise a sequence of command statements such as text inputs and function calls associated with the form. Consistent with embodiments of the invention, the test case may further comprise validation commands, such as correct data to be compared to results of the execution of one and\/or more of the command statements.","Method  may then advance to stage  where computing device  may execute the test case. For example, test display target  may execute each of the command statements in sequence and evaluate whether each of the sequence of command statements executed successfully. A command statement may comprise an input of login data for a sample user of the form. Test display target  may be operative to determine if the logical functions receive the data correctly and return appropriate information without necessitating actual input of the data into a visual representation of the form. Consistent with embodiments of the invention, computing device  may define an application programming interface (API) according to the form. Executing the command statements may comprise making calls to functions associated with the API.","Consistent with embodiments of the invention, the API exposed by Test Form Variable  may be said to be in accordance with form definition  if it matches the abstraction level of form definition . For example, a control on the form bound to a \u201cdate\u201d type field may appear within the API as a single member with relevant high-level methods for date manipulation in the UI. This may differ from testing against physical form UI , where the individual low-level controls that make up the date field (e.g., three seemingly independent controls such a label, a textbox and a button) may be exposed. Test scripts against the physical UI may need to be written with the knowledge that these three controls may logically represent various parts of the same piece of data and that the textbox contains the date formatted as text while the button will open a date-picker. This knowledge, which may be required by testing approaches that go against the physical UI, compensates for the lack of a strong tie to the original level of abstraction of the form definition.","Method  may then advance to stage  where computing device  may provide a result of applying the test case to a user. For example, application server process , responsible for hosting the execution of the test code, may report success or failure based on the evaluation of the test case at stage  to one and\/or more of plurality of user clients . Method  may then end at stage .","An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a testing environment extension. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to create an application within a modeling framework, wherein the application comprises at least one form, define at least one variable associated with the at least one form, create an application programming interface (API) according to the at least one form, apply a test case to the at least one variable, wherein applying the test case comprises making at least one call to the API, and report a result of applying the test case to a user.","Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a testing environment extension. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to identify a plurality of control elements associated with a form, create a logical representation associated with each of the plurality of control elements, derive a relationship between at least one first logical representation and at least one second logical representation from the form, define a variable associated with the form, create an application programming interface (API) associated with the variable, apply a test case using the variable via the API, and provide a result of executing the test case to a user.","Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a testing environment extension. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to create an application comprising a plurality of control elements associated with a form and a plurality of logic functions, store a definition associated with the form, translate at least one of the plurality of control elements into a logical representation comprising an accessor method and at least one metadata element, define an application programming interface (API) according to the logical representation, execute a test case associated with the user interface against the form definition, evaluate whether each of the sequence of command statements executed successfully, and provide a result of applying the test case to a user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","300","318","300","300","100","300"]},"With reference to , a system consistent with an embodiment of the invention may include a computing device, such as computing device . In a basic configuration, computing device  may include at least one processing unit  and a system memory . Depending on the configuration and type of computing device, system memory  may comprise, but is not limited to, volatile (e.g. random access memory (RAM)), non-volatile (e.g., read-only memory (ROM)), flash memory, or any combination. System memory  may include operating system , one or more programming modules , and may include application server process . Operating system , for example, may be suitable for controlling computing device 's operation. In one embodiment, programming modules  may include application server process . Furthermore, embodiments of the invention may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library, other operating systems, or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. This basic configuration is illustrated in  by those components within a dashed line .","Computing device  may have additional features or functionality. For example, computing device  may also include additional data storage devices (removable and\/or non-removable) such as, for example, magnetic disks, optical disks, or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by a removable storage  and a non-removable storage . Computing device  may also contain a communication connection  that may allow device  to communicate with other computing devices , such as over a network in a distributed computing environment, for example, an intranet or the Internet. Communication connection  is one example of communication media.","The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. System memory , removable storage , and non-removable storage  are all computer storage media examples (i.e., memory storage.) Computer storage media may include, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, electrically erasable read-only memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device  may also have input device(s)  such as a keyboard, a mouse, a pen, a sound input device, a touch input device, etc. Output device(s)  such as a display, speakers, a printer, etc. may also be included. The aforementioned devices are examples and others may be used.","The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared, and other wireless media.","As stated above, a number of program modules and data files may be stored in system memory , including operating system . While executing on processing unit , programming modules  (e.g., application server process ) may perform processes including, for example, one or more of method 's stages as described above. The aforementioned process is an example, and processing unit  may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may include electronic mail and contacts applications, word processing applications, spreadsheet applications, database applications, slide presentation applications, drawing or computer-aided application programs, etc.","Generally, consistent with embodiments of the invention, program modules may include routines, programs, components, data structures, and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, embodiments of the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","Furthermore, embodiments of the invention may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements, packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates, a circuit utilizing a microprocessor, or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as, for example, AND, OR, and NOT, including but not limited to mechanical, optical, fluidic, and quantum technologies. In addition, embodiments of the invention may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.","Embodiments of the invention, for example, may be implemented as a computer process (method), a computing system, or as an article of manufacture, such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly, the present invention may be embodied in hardware and\/or in software (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.). In other words, embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer-usable or computer-readable storage medium having computer-usable or computer-readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be any medium that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","The computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be, for example but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific computer-readable medium examples (a non-exhaustive list), the computer-readable medium may include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, and a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM). Note that the computer-usable or computer-readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed, as the program can be electronically captured, via, for instance, optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted, or otherwise processed in a suitable manner, if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory.","Embodiments of the present invention, for example, are described above with reference to block diagrams and\/or operational illustrations of methods, systems, and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions\/acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example, two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality\/acts involved.","While certain embodiments of the invention have been described, other embodiments may exist. Furthermore, although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums, data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer-readable media, such as secondary storage devices, like hard disks, floppy disks, or a CD-ROM, a carrier wave from the Internet, or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further, the disclosed methods' stages may be modified in any manner, including by reordering stages and\/or inserting or deleting stages, without departing from the invention.","All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Applicant. The Applicant retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein, and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.","While the specification includes examples, the invention's scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore, while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this disclosure, illustrate various embodiments of the present invention. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
