---
title: Alignment and focus of mirrored facets of a heliostat
abstract: Various technologies pertaining to aligning and focusing mirrored facets of a heliostat are described herein. Updating alignment and/or focus of mirrored facets is undertaken through generation of a theoretical image, wherein the theoretical image is indicative of a reflection of the target via the mirrored facets when the mirrored facets are properly aligned. This theoretical image includes reference points that are overlaid on an image of the target as reflected by the mirrored facets of the heliostat. A technician adjusts alignment/focus of a mirrored facet by causing reflected reference markings to become aligned with the reference points in the theoretical image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08582092&OS=08582092&RS=08582092
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08582092
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110412
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/689,798, filed on Jan. 19, 2010, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/241,047, filed on Jun. 12, 2007, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/689,798 is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/761,396, filed on Jun. 12, 2007. Which is now U.S. Pat. No. 7,667,833, issued on Feb. 23, 2010, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/817,160, filed on Jun. 28, 2006. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was developed under contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.","Solar power towers are utilized to receive concentrated solar radiation to produce high-temperature thermal energy to generate utility-scale electricity or perform solar chemistry. To generate high thermal energy, solar power towers are located in fields that include numerous heliostats that collect and concentrate solar energy onto a central collector (receiver). A heliostat includes, for example, a plurality of mirrored facets on a common frame that has two axis drives, such that the heliostat can track the sun over the course of a day. Current solar power tower fields include hundreds to thousands of heliostats.","To obtain substantially optimal concentrated solar flux on the central collector from a heliostat, the individual mirrored facets are desirably canted as well as focused. With more specificity, heliostats are considered point-focus concentrators. These types of concentrators are typically tested and evaluated at the 2f position, which is at a distance that is twice the focal length away from the concentrator vertex. For heliostats that have very long slant ranges or focal lengths (hundreds of meters), however, the 2f location is not easily accessible. This makes it difficult to measure and evaluate the alignment of the heliostat facets at 2f. Accordingly, other alignment approaches have been considered.","An exemplary approach for aligning mirrored facets in a heliostat is to place the heliostat on sun while covering other heliostats in the field, and then judge the concentration of light at the solar power tower manually with the human eye. Utilizing this approach, alignment and focus of each mirrored facet in the heliostat is \u201ctweaked\u201d until a technician judges (qualitatively) whether a sufficient focus of flux has been achieved at the solar power tower. For solar power tower fields that include hundreds or thousands of heliostats, this approach is suboptimal due to the time required to manually align mirrored facets in all heliostats; the changing sun position affects the flux distribution, which makes it difficult to accurately judge a \u201cgood\u201d flux distribution at the collector. Other approaches have also been considered (and implemented and\/or demonstrated), but such approaches are generally relatively expensive, inaccurate, difficult to use, or too time consuming to practically implement.","The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.","Described herein are various technologies pertaining to aligning (canting) and focusing mirrored facets in heliostats that are utilized in connection with concentrating solar radiation at a collector on a solar power. A target and a camera (e.g., a video camera or still camera) are positioned relative to a heliostat that comprises a plurality of mirrored facets, such that the camera can capture a reflected image of the target by way of the plurality of mirrored facets. The target may have known dimensions and is positioned at a measured or known distance from the heliostat. Additionally, orientation of the target with respect to the heliostat can be known, measured, or estimated. In other words, the camera is orientated towards the mirrored facets of the heliostat such that images of the mirrored facets of the heliostat are captured, and the target is placed such that from the images captured by the camera include the target as reflected by the mirrored facets of the heliostat.","In an exemplary embodiment, the camera can be positioned near the top of a solar power tower and directed toward a particular heliostat from amongst a plurality of heliostats. A target may be placed relatively proximate to the heliostat in between the tower and the heliostat. For instance, the target may be placed upon a frame of another heliostat in the field of heliostats. In this exemplary embodiment, the camera can capture images that include an entirety of a heliostat or several heliostats, such that all mirrored facets on one or more heliostats can be aligned substantially simultaneously. The target includes a plurality of reference markings. Therefore, for example, the target may be in the form of a grid that includes numerous lines: e.g., a first set of lines that run substantially vertically in parallel with one another and a second set of lines that run substantially horizontally in parallel with one another. Intersection points of the sets of lines in the target, size of lines in the target, and orientation of the lines in the target can be utilized to align the mirrored facets in a heliostat. One or more images of the target reflected by the mirrored facets of the heliostat as captured by the camera may then be provided to a computing apparatus. For example, the camera may be configured with an antenna that facilitates wireless communication of the image to the computing apparatus. Alternatively, the video camera may be coupled to the computing apparatus by way of a suitable wireline connection.","A theoretical image of the target as reflected by the heliostat can be generated at the computing apparatus based at least in part upon known dimensions of the target and mirrored facets of the heliostat, distance between the mirrored facets and the target, and orientation of the mirrored facets with respect to the target. The theoretical image is indicative of, for example, position, size, and orientation of gridlines of the target as reflected in the plurality of mirrored facets of the heliostat when such mirrored facets are properly aligned and focused. For example, the theoretical image can include computed points where gridlines of the target theoretically should intersect with one another in mirrored facets of the heliostat, positions on the mirrored facet where gridlines should intersect the boundaries of the mirrored facet, width of gridlines in the mirrored facet, and the like. The theoretical image can be compared with the actual image captured by the camera at the computing apparatus, and an instruction pertaining to aligning at least one mirrored facet in the heliostat can be output based at least in part upon the comparison between the theoretical image and the image captured by the camera. This instruction may be, for example, a visual instruction to a technician pertaining to an alteration in alignment or focus of at least one mirrored facet in the heliostat. In another example, the output instruction may be a textual instruction to a technician that instructs a technician as to a change in position of a bolt that causes an alteration in alignment or focus of at least one mirrored facet on the heliostat. In yet another embodiment, the instruction output by the computing apparatus may be transmitted to an actuator on the heliostat that causes the actuator to automatically change alignment and\/or focus of at least one mirrored facet on the heliostat.","The above exemplary embodiment has described the utilization of a reflected image of a target when a heliostat is in the field. It is to be understood that reflected images may be captured in other manners. Pursuant to an example, the target itself (near the heliostat) may have one or more cameras attached thereto, and may be or directed towards the mirrored facets of a heliostat. This approach can employ several cameras, wherein a number of cameras may be dependent upon a distance between the target and mirrored facets of the heliostat of interest, a size of the heliostat (a number of mirrored facets in the heliostat), etc. The one or more cameras coupled to the target are configured to capture reflected images of the target via the mirrored facets of the heliostat. If a plurality of cameras are utilized in this approach, resulting images in an exemplary embodiment can be stitched together to create an overall image of the target as reflected via the mirrored facets of the heliostat. Alternatively, different mirrored facets on the heliostat can be analyzed separately through utilization of captured images of respective portions of the target reflected via the mirrored facets of the heliostat. Based at least in part upon a known distance between the mirrored facets of the heliostat and the target and known dimensions corresponding to the target, a theoretical image can be generated that is indicative of a reflected image of the target via the mirrored facets of the heliostat if the mirrored facets are properly aligned. This theoretical image can be compared with one or more images captured by the cameras that are coupled to the target and, as described above, a computing apparatus can be configured to output an instruction based at least in part upon the comparison.","Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.","Various technologies pertaining to aligning mirrored facets of heliostats utilized in connection with solar power towers will now be described with reference to the drawings, where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally, as used herein, the term \u201cexemplary\u201d is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something, and is not intended to indicate a preference.","With reference now to , an exemplary system  that facilitates aligning mirrored facets of a heliostat is illustrated. The system  comprises a heliostat  that includes a plurality of mirrored facets. For example, in operation, the heliostat  comprises a frame that holds the plurality of mirrored facets, and the frame may be configured with two axis drives such that the heliostat  can track the movement of the sun over the course of a day. The heliostat , in operation, is configured to reflect solar radiation received at the mirrored facets towards a central collector on a solar power tower. Generally, hundreds or thousands of heliostats are positioned proximate to a solar power tower such that a significant amount of solar radiation is concentrated at the collector on the solar power tower. The solar radiation captured by the concentrator utilizes heat energy, for instance, to heat a liquid to transform the state of the liquid to a gas and drive a turbine. This in turn can be utilized to generate utility-grade electrical power.","To substantially optimize the concentration of solar flux at the concentrator of the solar power tower, the plurality of mirrored facets in the heliostat  are desirably aligned and\/or focused. More specifically, when the plurality of mirrored facets and heliostats become misaligned with one another or out of focus, the solar radiation reflected by the plurality of mirrored facets is less concentrated at the collector of the solar power tower, thereby resulting in loss of heat, which results in less efficiency in connection with generating electric power.","To facilitate aligning the plurality of mirrored facets, the system  comprises a target  that is positioned to face the plurality of mirrored facets of the heliostat . For instance, as shown, the target  can include a reference grid that comprises a first plurality of lines that are arranged substantially vertically and a second plurality of lines that are arranged substantially horizontally. While the target  is shown as including the reference grid, it is to be understood that the target  may include other reference markings, such as diagonal lines, \u201cX\u201d markings, circles, or the like. Regardless of the type of reference markings that are included in the target , dimensions corresponding to size of the target  and reference markings in the target  can be known or measured. Further, a distance between the target  and the heliostat  can be measured or known a priori. Additionally, orientation of the heliostat  with respect to the target  can be known or measured. In more detail, azimuth angles with respect to a reference point can be measured or known for both the heliostat  and the target . Additionally, elevation (tilt) angles can be measured or known for both the heliostat  and the target .","A camera  can be positioned to capture a reflected image of the target  by way of the mirrored facets of the heliostat . In other words, the camera  is positioned to capture an image of the heliostat , and thereby capturing a reflected image of the target  in the plurality of mirrored facets of the heliostat . Pursuant to an example, the camera  may be a video camera that is configured to output or capture video images of the heliostat . In another exemplary embodiment, the camera  may be configured to capture still images of the target  as reflected from the mirrored facets of the heliostat . Additionally, the orientation of the camera  with respect to the heliostat  can be known or measured.","A computing apparatus  is in communication with the camera  and can receive an image of the reflected target  by way of the heliostat . For example, the camera  may be configured with wireless communication functionality that causes an image captured by the camera  to be transmitted by way of a wireless communications channel to the computing apparatus . In another exemplary embodiment, the camera  may be in communication with the computing apparatus  by way of a wirelined connection. In yet another exemplary embodiment, the camera  and the computing apparatus  may be integrated in a single computing device. The computing apparatus  is configured to generate a theoretical image of the target  as reflected by the mirrored facets of the heliostat  based at least in part upon the distance between the heliostat  and the target , the orientation of the heliostat  with respect to the target , the orientation of the camera  with respect to the target, and\/or an ideal shape (focus) of the heliostat  (and mirrored facets therein), which is based upon a specified\/assumed sun position and a theoretical aim point on a solar power tower. In an example, the computing apparatus  can receive a reflected image of the target  from the camera , and can include image processing functionality that is configured to identify boundaries of mirrored facets in the heliostat . This can be undertaken, for example, by analyzing intensity gradients in pixels of an image captured by the camera , where large gradient values may be indicative of a boundary of a mirrored facet.","Once the mirrored facets in the image captured by the camera  have been located, the computing apparatus  can be configured to generate a theoretical image of the reflected target  in the mirrored facets of the heliostat . The theoretical image of the reflected target  in the mirrored facets of the heliostat  can include reference points that are indicative of positions of the target as reflected by the mirrored facets of the heliostat  if such mirrored facets are substantially optimally aligned and\/or focused. These reference points may include, for example, a position of intersection of gridlines of the target  as reflected in a particular mirrored facet, a position where at least one gridline in the reflected image of the target  ideally intersects a boundary of the particular mirrored facet, a width of at least one gridline as reflected by the particular mirrored facet as it crosses the mirrored facet, amongst other reference points. These reference points themselves may be interpreted to be the theoretical image. In an alternative embodiment, the computing apparatus  can generate the theoretical image of the reflected target  in the mirrored facets of the heliostat  prior to the camera  capturing the image, and the reference points of the theoretical image can be mapped to appropriate positions in the image captured by the camera  after such image is captured.","The computing apparatus  is also configured with computer-executable code that causes the image captured by the camera  to be compared with the theoretical image generated by the computing apparatus . An alignment and\/or focus instruction pertaining to at least one facet can be output by the computing apparatus  based at least in part upon such comparison. In an exemplary embodiment, the computing apparatus  may have a display screen corresponding thereto, wherein the display screen depicts visual or textual instructions to a technician that is aligning or focusing a heliostat. Thus, the computing apparatus  may be a desktop computer that is employed in a factor setting where the heliostat  is manufactured. In another example, the computing apparatus  may be a portable computing device, such as a laptop computer, portable telephone, or the like, and can be utilized by a technician in the field in connection with aligning\/focusing mirrored facets of the heliostat. In this case, the portable computing device is in wireless communication with the camera , and has sufficient computing resources to generate the above-described theoretical image. The instruction output by the computing apparatus  to the technician may be an overlay image that visually guides the technician when adjusting\/focusing mirrored facets in the heliostat . Additionally or alternatively, the instruction output by the computing apparatus  to the technician may be textual instructions that describe actions to be undertaken by the technician to properly align\/focus on or more mirrored facets of the heliostat .","In another exemplary embodiment, the computing device  can be in communication with another computing apparatus (not shown) that is utilized by a technician that is manually adjusting the alignment and\/or focus of the plurality of mirrored facets in the heliostat . In such an example, the alignment\/focus instruction is transmitted from the computing apparatus  to the other computing apparatus utilized by the technician. Again, the output instruction may be textual instructions informing the technician of particular alterations in alignment\/focus to be undertaken with respect to at least one mirrored facet in the heliostat . In another exemplary embodiment, the computing apparatus  can be configured to transmit the image captured by the camera  to the computing technician together with visual overlays that pertain to the reference points in the theoretical image, wherein the visual overlays indicate substantially optimal positions of reference points in the target  as reflected by the at least one mirrored facet.","In still yet another exemplary embodiment, alignment\/focus of mirrored facets in a heliostat can be automatically undertaken without a technician. In such an embodiment, actuators may be coupled to each of the mirrored facets, wherein the actuators can be in communication with a microprocessor on the heliostat . For instance, the microprocessor on the heliostat can be the computing apparatus  or be in wireless communication with the computing apparatus , and the output instruction can be transmitted (e.g., wirelessly) to the microprocessor. The microprocessor may then send commands to an appropriate actuator to cause, for instance, a fastening mechanism to be adjusted and thereby update alignment and\/or focus of the at least one mirrored facet.","In an example, each mirrored facet may be coupled to the frame of the heliostat  by way of a plurality of fastening mechanisms, wherein such fastening mechanisms are adjustable, and adjustments to the fastening mechanisms cause alignment or focus of the respective mirrored facet to be altered. Therefore, for instance, adjusting a fastening mechanism on an upper portion or lower portion of a mirrored facet can cause the elevation angle of the mirrored facet to be changed, while adjusting a fastening mechanism on one of the sides of the mirrored facet can cause the azimuth angle of the mirrored facet to be altered. Additionally, adjusting a particular fastening mechanism proximate to a center of the mirrored facet can cause a focus of the mirrored facet to change.","With respect to the exemplary target  shown in , when captured as a reflected image by the camera  via the heliostat , the intersections of lines in the reference grid desirably correspond to each of the mirrored facets in the heliostat . Accordingly, for any row of mirrored facets in the heliostat , a reflected image of the target  will desirably include a horizontal grid line that passes horizontally through each mirrored facet in the row. Similarly, for any column of mirrored facets in the heliostat , the reflected image of the target  will desirably include a vertical grid line that passes vertically through each mirrored facet in the column. Misalignment in the reflected image of a grid line in the vertical direction between two mirrored facets in a column indicates a misalignment of at least one of the mirrored facets in the column with respect to the azimuth angle, while misalignment in the reflected image of a grid line in the horizontal direction between two mirrored facets in a row indicates a misalignment of at least one of the mirrored facets in the column with respect to the elevation angle. By comparing the reflected image of the target  captured by the camera  with the theoretical reflected image of the target , such misalignments in the elevation and azimuth angles can be located. Moreover, a width of either a vertical or horizontal grid line of the target  as reflected by a mirrored facet of the heliostat  is indicative of focus corresponding to the mirrored facet. The comparison between the image captured by the camera  and the theoretical image can result in identification of improper focus of the mirrored facet.","With reference now to , an exemplary target  that can be utilized in connection with aligning mirrored facets in a heliostat as described above is illustrated. In this example, the target  may be a frame that is utilized to support another mirrored facet, which for instance, may be in a solar power tower field together with the heliostat . Therefore, in an example, the target  shown in  may be utilized as the target  described above. The frame of the heliostat includes a plurality of vertically arranged support beams and a plurality of horizontally arranged support beams that are utilized to support mirrored facets of the heliostat. Pursuant to an example, to increase visibility, one or more of the vertically arranged or horizontally arranged support beams may be painted or taped with a reflective paint or tape to cause the support beams to be readily identifiable in images. Utilization of a frame of a heliostat as the target  may be beneficial, as dimensions of the frame are already known and a position between the frame and another heliostat in the solar power tower field are likewise known. Additionally, orientation of both the heliostat being aligned and the heliostat that is acting as a target can be known a priori.","Since both of such heliostats can be configured to generally be directed towards the central collector on the solar power tower, it is to be understood that the frame of the heliostat can be utilized as a target while both are in the field. In an exemplary embodiment, the frames of the heliostats can be pulled off sun and placed in substantial alignment with the camera  to enable alignment of mirrored facets of one of the heliostats. In another exemplary embodiment, the target  can be constructed separately, placed on a mobile cart, and positioned relative to heliostats in the field to perform alignment. In still yet another exemplary embodiment, a heliostat frame or separately constructed target can be utilized as the target  to perform alignment of mirrored facets in a factory setting, such that the target  can be positioned relative to a heliostat that has recently been manufactured (or is in a factory for maintenance purposes), and alignment of mirrored facets of the heliostat can be undertaken through utilization of the theoretical image as described above. While the target  has been described as possibly being a frame of a heliostat, it is to be understood that any suitable mechanism that can be utilized as a target is contemplated by the inventors and intended to fall under the scope of the hereto-appended claims.","Turning now to , an exemplary system  that facilitates aligning mirrored facets of a heliostat is illustrated. The system  comprises a plurality of heliostats -, wherein each of the heliostats comprises an array of mirrored facets. The system  further comprises a solar power tower  that includes a central collector . The mirrored facets on the heliostats - are configured to direct concentrated light to the central collector  on the solar power tower  when the heliostats are \u201con sun\u201d. The system  further comprises the camera  that is placed near the top of the solar power tower . In this exemplary system , the frame of the heliostat  acts as the target , and the mirrored facets on the heliostat  are desirably aligned and\/or focused. The camera  captures a reflected image of the target by way of the mirrored facets of the heliostat  as described above. This captured image of the reflected target (the frame of the heliostat ) is then compared with a theoretical reflected image of the target when the mirrored facets of the heliostat are substantially optimally aligned\/focused.","The system  facilitates efficient in situ alignment of mirrored facets in heliostats in a solar power tower field. As mentioned above, solar power tower fields may include hundreds or thousands of heliostats. To align mirrored facets in heliostats, the camera  can be directed towards a particular heliostat that includes mirrored facets that are desirably aligned. Pursuant to an example, the camera  includes a zoom lens that is configured to capture the heliostat  in its field of view. Additionally, prior to the camera  capturing a reflected image of the frame of the heliostat  by way of the mirrored facets of the heliostat , both of the heliostats  and  can be rotated such that they are in line with the camera . Subsequent to the heliostats  and  being in line with the camera , the camera  can capture a reflected image of the target (the frame of the heliostat ) by way of the mirrored facets of the heliostat , and can transmit this captured image to the computing apparatus . Since the distance between the heliostat  and the heliostat  are known, and orientation of the heliostats - are known with respect to one another, and the orientation of the camera  with respect to the heliostat  is readily computable (or measured via a encoders on the heliostat drives), a theoretical image of the frame of the heliostat  as reflected in the mirrored facets of the heliostat  can be generated. As mentioned above, this theoretical image can be generated prior to the camera  capturing the reflected image of the target in the mirrored facets of the heliostat  or after the camera  has captured the reflected image of the target in the mirrored facets of the heliostat . If the orientation of the heliostat  is unknown with respect to the heliostat , photogrammetry can be employed to calculate the orientation of the target (the frame of the heliostat ) relative to the mirrored facets of the heliostat , and a sun position can be assumed to calculate correction factors to fix the aligning of the mirrored facets as well as focus, such that when the heliostat  is put on sun, the radiation beams reflected by the heliostat  are well focused. Again, subsequent to the computing apparatus  comparing the received image from the camera  with the theoretical image, one or more instructions can be output that indicate desired alterations in alignment and\/or focus of at least one mirrored facet in the heliostat .","It can be observed that a heliostat in a front row or at outer edges of a solar power tower field do not have heliostats directly in front thereof. Accordingly, for these heliostats, a portable target can be utilized and placed in between such heliostats and the solar power tower  (and the camera ). Such a portable target may include a reference grid as described above. A distance between the portable target and the desirably aligned heliostat can be measured and photogrammetry can be employed to calculate the difference in orientation between the portable target and the desirably aligned heliostat. Thereafter, the process of computing the theoretical image and capturing the reflected image of the target through the desirably aligned heliostat will be undertaken as described above.","In another exemplary embodiment, rather than the target being placed proximate to a desirably aligned heliostat, a target may be placed relatively high on the tower but beneath the camera . In such an exemplary embodiment, the desirably aligned heliostats can be configured such that the camera  can capture a reflected image of the target on the solar power tower  in numerous heliostats in a single image. It is to be understood, however, that the target for desirably aligned heliostat can be positioned at any suitable location in between the camera  and the desirably align heliostats, so long as the camera  can capture a reflected image of the target by way of mirrored facets of the desirably aligned heliostats.","With reference now to , another exemplary system  that facilitates aligning mirrored facets on a heliostat is illustrated. The system  may be particularly beneficial during manufacture of a heliostat, prior to such heliostat being placed in a field of a solar power tower. The system  comprises a heliostat  that includes a plurality of mirrored facets -. The system  further comprises a (mobile) target  which can include reference markings (e.g., a reference grid) as described above. Additionally, a plurality of cameras - can be mounted to the target  and directed at the mirrored facets - of the heliostat . A number and position of cameras can depend upon, for instance, size of mirrored facets - and number of mirrored facets in the heliostat . Pursuant to a particular example, the plurality of cameras - can be positioned at corners of the target  with a single camera placed at a center of the target . Reference markings on the target  are captured by the cameras - as reflected in the mirrored facets - of the heliostat . A single camera may cover several adjacent mirrored facets, such that an image from one of these cameras can be utilized to align and focus several mirrored facets. The orientation of the target  relative to that of the heliostat , the desired slant angle of the mirrored facets -, distance between the cameras - and\/or the target structure  and the mirrored facets - of the heliostat , and orientations of the cameras - relative to a reference camera (e.g., a boresight camera which may be a center camera) are used to calculate theoretical images that indicate ideal alignment and\/or focus of the mirrored facets -. Pursuant to an example, theoretical images can be overlaid on photographic images captured by the cameras -.","In the approach exemplified in the system , a subset of the mirrored facets - in heliostat  can be aligned based upon images captured by a particular camera. In another exemplary embodiment, images captured by the cameras - can be stitched together through conventional image stitching techniques, such that a stitched image of reflections of the target by way of the mirrored facets - can be created and compared with a theoretical image. Thereafter, reference markings can be overlaid on top of the captured image to guide a technician in connection with adjusting alignment\/focus of the mirrored facets - of the heliostat .","With reference now to , an exemplary graphical user interface  that can be provided to a technician in connection with adjusting alignment and focus of mirrored facets in heliostats is illustrated. The graphical user interface  can be displayed on a display monitor that is viewable to a technician, wherein the display monitor can be a display monitor on a portable computing device, a conventional display monitor, or the like. The graphical user interface  includes an image captured by the camera  of the target by way of the mirrored facets of a heliostat. In the exemplary graphical user interface , images corresponding to sixteen separate mirrored facets on a heliostat are shown. It is to be understood that this number of mirrored facets is exemplary, and more or fewer mirrored facets can be shown in the graphical user interface . In the exemplary graphical user interface , the reflected target image in the mirrored facets includes a reference grid that comprises a plurality of vertically arranged reference lines and a plurality of horizontally arranged reference lines. It is to be understood that a reflected vertically arranged reference line is desirably in alignment through mirrored facets in a column while a reflected horizontally arranged reference line is desirably in alignment through mirrored facets in a row. In the example shown in , it can be ascertained that the imaged mirrored facets are out of alignment.","As described above, a theoretical image that includes theoretical reference points can be generated and such reference points can be overlaid on the captured image of the mirrored facets that display a reflected image of the target reference grid. For instance, the theoretical reference point may indicate a desired position in the reflected image of the target on a particular mirrored facet where grid lines intersect. Accordingly, with respect to a first mirrored facet  shown in the graphical user interface , a marker  can be or overlaid on the image of the target as reflected from the first mirrored facet  to indicate to a technician a desired alteration in alignment of the first mirrored facet. While just a single marker has been shown for the purposes of explanation, it is to be understood that markers similar to the one shown as marker  can be placed on all of the mirrored facets shown in the graphical user interface . Moreover, additional reference markings may be included in the image of the first facet , such as markings to indicate where the grid lines desirably intersect the boundary of the mirrored facet , a desired width of grid lines as they pass through the mirrored facet , etc. Again, a technician can view the reference marker  in connection with the reflected target grid lines in the graphical user interface , and can make modifications to alignment and\/or focus of the mirrored facet  to cause the reflected grid lines to correspond to the reference marker . This can be undertaken for each of the mirrored facets shown in the graphical user interface  until all such mirrored facets are desirably aligned.","Additionally or alternatively, the graphical user interface  may include a field  that presents textual instructions to a technician that is aligning and\/or focusing one or more mirrored facets in a heliostat. These textual instructions can be provided together with or independent of the images shown in the graphical user interface . For instance, the textual instructions shown in the field  can inform a technician of an identity of a fastening mechanism that can be adjusted to alter alignment of a particular mirrored facet as well as a manner in which to adjust the fastening mechanism to update alignment. An exemplary textual instruction may be \u201cturn alignment bolt #3 clockwise three rotations.\u201d","Now referring to , another exemplary graphical user interface  is shown. The graphical user interface  illustrates reflected images of the target grid lines captured through mirrored facets of the heliostat after the mirrored facets have been properly aligned. It can be ascertained that vertically arranged grid lines are substantially aligned across mirrored facets in a column, while horizontally arranged grid lines are substantially aligned across mirrored facets in a row. For instance, once the technician ascertains that the mirrored facets are in substantial alignment through analysis of the graphical user interface , the technician can proceed to align a different heliostat.","With reference now to , various exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence, it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance, some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition, an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore, in some instances, not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.","Moreover, one or more of the acts described herein may be computer-executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and\/or stored on a computer-readable medium or media. The computer-executable instructions may include a routine, a sub-routine, programs, a thread of execution, and\/or the like. Still further, results of acts of the methodologies may be stored in a computer-readable medium, displayed on a display device, and\/or the like. The computer-readable medium may be a data storage medium, such as memory, hard drive, CD, DVD, flash drive, or the like. As used herein, the term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d is not intended to encompass a propagated signal.","With reference now to , an exemplary methodology  that facilitates aligning mirrored facets based at least in part upon captured images of a target as reflected through the mirrored facets is illustrated. The methodology  starts at , and at  a shape of a heliostat that is desirably aligned\/focused is determined, wherein the shape of the heliostat refers to positions (in both elevation and azimuth angles) of mirrored facets in the heliostat as well as slant angle (focus) of the mirrored facets in the heliostat when the mirrored facets are aligned to substantially optimize concentrate solar radiation at a collector of a solar power tower. The shape of the heliostat is determined based at least in part upon an assumed sun position (e.g., noon on the solar equinox) a position of the collector on the solar power tower, and a distance between the heliostat and the solar power tower. It is to be understood that any suitable sun position can be assumed, and that the sun need not be in the assumed position relative to the heliostat.","At , a camera, a heliostat, and a target are positioned to allow the camera to capture a reflected image of the target via a mirrored facet of the heliostat. At , a reflected image of the target is captured via at least one mirrored facet of the heliostat.","At , a theoretical reflected image of the target is generated, wherein the theoretical image may be computed reference points that indicate a desired position of reference lines in the theoretical image when the mirrored facet is properly aligned. The theoretical reflected image is based at least in part upon the shape of the heliostat determined at , the relative orientation of the heliostat to the target, the distance between the heliostat and the target, and the relative orientation of the camera to the target (or other camera).","At , the image captured by the camera is compared with the theoretical image, and at  data is output that is indicative of a desired change in position of the mirrored facet based at least in part upon the comparison. The desired change in position may cause alignment and\/or focus of the mirrored facet to be altered. Pursuant to an example, this data may be an overlay of a reference marker on the image captured by the camera, may be a textual instruction to a technician, may be a command received by an actuator to alter alignment or focus of the mirrored facet, etc. The methodology  completes at .","Now referring to , an exemplary methodology  that facilitates aligning at least one mirrored facet of the heliostat is illustrated. The methodology  starts at , and at  a substantially optimal shape of a heliostat that is desirably aligned\/focused is determined. The determining of shape of the heliostat has been described above. At  an estimated distance between a target and a heliostat is received. This estimated distance may be an actual measured distance. At , dimensions of the target are received. Additionally, orientation of the target with respect to a desirably aligned heliostat is computed or received.","At , a theoretical image of the target as reflected via the heliostat when mirrored facets of the heliostat are properly aligned is generated. At , an image captured by a camera of the target as reflected via the heliostat is received and at , an image captured by the camera is compared to the theoretical image. At , instructions are output to a technician as to a change in alignment or focus of the mirrored facet based at least in part upon the comparison undertaken at . The methodology completes at .","Now referring to , a high-level illustration of an exemplary computing device  that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance, the computing device  may be used in a system that supports aligning\/focusing mirrored facets of heliostats. In another example, at least a portion of the computing device  may be used in a system that supports generating a theoretical image of a reflected target via mirrored facets of a heliostat. The computing device  includes at least one processor  that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory  may be or include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, Flash memory, or other suitable memory. The instructions may be, for instance, instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor  may access the memory  by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions, the memory  may also store images, data indicative of orientation of heliostats and\/or targets, data indicative of distance between heliostats and targets, etc.","The computing device  additionally includes a data store  that is accessible by the processor  by way of the system bus . The data store  may be or include any suitable computer-readable storage, including a hard disk, memory, etc. The data store  may include executable instructions, data indicative of distances between heliostats and targets, etc. The computing device  also includes an input interface  that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance, the input interface  may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device in a wireless manner, etc. The computing device  also includes an output interface  that interfaces the computing device  with one or more external devices. For example, the computing device  may display text, images, etc. by way of the output interface . Additionally, the computing device  may transmit signals wirelessly by way of the output interface .","Additionally, while illustrated as a single system, it is to be understood that the computing device  may be a distributed system. Thus, for instance, several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .","It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto-appended claims. Additionally, it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
