---
title: Methods and apparatus for enabling a hybrid web and native application
abstract: Systems and methodologies are described that enable hybrid web and native applications. A communications device may be equipped to process one or more links where each link may be associated with a workflow directive. Further, the communications device may be equipped to process a workflow directive associated with a link to pre-render a template while a content request including the link is being transmitted. Still further, the communications device may be equipped to apply content received in response to the content request to the pre-rendered template.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645491&OS=08645491&RS=08645491
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08645491
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110911
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61\/424,622 entitled \u201cMETHODS AND APPARATUS FOR ENABLING A HYBRID WEB AND NATIVE APPLICATION\u201d filed Dec. 18, 2010, and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.","The disclosed aspects relate generally to communications between devices and specifically to methods and systems for enabling hybrid web and native applications.","Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example, there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices, including wireless computing devices, such as portable wireless telephones, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and paging devices that are each small, lightweight, and can be easily carried by users. More specifically, the portable wireless telephones, for example, further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further, many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities, and as such, are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand-held PDAs.","Further, applications resident on a device may fall into categories, such as light (e.g., dumb), heavy (e.g., smart), etc. A light application, such as a web browser, may have limited ability to manipulate and manage data on the device, as light applications basically follow instructions provided to them with received content. As such, light applications allow a great degree of control from the network-side (e.g., web-side) while providing limited local flexibility. Further, when a device receives web-based content (e.g., such as a browser receiving a web page), the received content may include presentation information (e.g., formatting information, layout information, etc.) and data, where the presentation information defines how the data should be rendered. For example, the presentation information may include cascading style sheets (CSS) and other HTML data that a browser may parse into a document object model (DOM) for rendering the page. As such, the device has little local control over presentation options of web-based content.","On the other hand, heavy applications include substantial programming that allows them to provide for local control and management over received content. As such, heavy applications allow a great deal of local (e.g., native) control while having limited network-side control. For example, to change functionality of a heavy application updates may be used from the network-side.","Thus, improved apparatus and methods for enabling a hybrid web and native application may be desired.","The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects, and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","According to related aspects, a method for enabling hybrid web and native applications is provided. The method can include obtaining a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links. In such aspect, each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The method can also include transmitting a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. The method can also include processing the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. The method can also include receiving a content message including content in response to the content request. Moreover, the method may include applying at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured to provide hybrid web and native functionality. The at least one processor may be configured to obtain a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links. In such aspect, each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The at least one processor may also be configured to transmit a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. The at least one processor may also be configured to process the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. The at least one processor may also be configured to receive a content message including content in response to the content request. Moreover, the at least one processor may be configured to apply at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that provides hybrid web and native functionality. The wireless communications apparatus can include means for obtaining a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links. In such aspect, each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for transmitting a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for processing the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for receiving a content message including content in response to the content request. Moreover, the wireless communications apparatus can include means for applying at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include a hybrid web and native module operable to obtain a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links. In such aspect, each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The wireless communications apparatus can include a transmitter operable to transmit a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. Further, the wireless communications apparatus hybrid web and native module may be operable to process the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. The wireless communications apparatus can include a receiver operable to receive a content message including content in response to the content request. Moreover, the wireless communications apparatus hybrid web and native module may be operable to apply at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","Still another aspect relates to a computer program product, which can include a computer-readable medium. The computer-readable medium can include at least one instruction for causing a computer to obtain a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links. In such aspect, each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The computer-readable medium can also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to transmit a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. The computer-readable medium can also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to process the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. The computer-readable medium can also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive a content message including content in response to the content request. Moreover, the computer-readable medium can include at least one instruction for causing the computer to apply at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed, and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.","Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a detailed understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident, however, that such aspect(s) may be practiced without these specific details.","In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof, various aspects are described in connection with enabling hybrid web and native applications. In one example, a communications device may be equipped to process one or more links where each link may be associated with a workflow directive. Further, the communications device may be equipped to process a workflow directive associated with a link to pre-render a template while a content request including the link is being transmitted. Still further, the communications device may be equipped to apply content received in response to the content request to the pre-rendered template.","Generally, a communications device having a hybrid web and native module may provide efficient exchange of information with a content server through a network. This exchange of information may allow for content server (e.g., network-side) updates that provide a dynamically changeable user experience on the communications device. Additionally, the hybrid web and native module may provide integrated stateful functionality to allow for local operation on and\/or control of content received from the network side. As used herein, stateful functionality may reference to settings\/configurations associated with content and\/or settings\/configurations associated an application acting upon the content. As such, integrated stateful functionality may reference to sharing and\/or knowledge of the stateful settings and\/or configurations across multiple modules\/platforms within the communications device. As used in this disclosure, the term \u201ccontent\u201d or \u201ccontent item\u201d includes, at least, one or more of any type of application, multimedia file, image file, executable, program, web page, script, document, presentation, message, a website, music, a movie, data, meta-data, or any other type of media or information that may be rendered, processed, or executed on a device, or an electronic identification of any of the foregoing. Still further, each content item may be associated with a workflow directive. In one aspect, a workflow directive may include fields indicating, links, data, objects, etc., and additional processing information associated with each of the fields. In one aspect, local operations and\/or controls may be implemented through use of templates that may be pre-rendered in anticipation of expected content. As used herein, templates may include, but are not limited to, formatting and presentation information with stateful functionality to process received content and workflow directives. Thus, hybrid web and native module provides aspects of both a light application and a heavy application through interfacing of the web client portion with the stateful client portion. In one aspect, a communications device may be a wireless communications device (WCD), and\/or multiple devices, both wireline and wireless. For example, multiple devices may work in tandem, as a network, etc.","With reference to , a block diagram of a communication network  according to an aspect is illustrated. Communication network  may include communications devices  connected to an access network and\/or core network  (e.g., a CDMA network, a GPRS network, a UMTS network, and other types of wireline and wireless communication networks). Communication network  may further include one or more of servers, such as content server , connected to network .","In one aspect, communications device  may further include hybrid web and native module , which may be operable to provide integrated stateful functionality to allow for local operation on and\/or control of data. In one aspect, hybrid web and native module  may work in conjunction with a web browser on the communications device . In another aspect, hybrid web and native module  may be operable in place of a web browser on the communications device . For example, hybrid web and native module  may use a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request to obtain information, such as but not limited to a Representational State Transfer (REST)-based mechanism, from content server  but without using JavaScript, a hypertext markup language (HTML) Document Object Model (DOM) tree, etc., such as used by a web browser. Further, hybrid web and native module  may be operable to store (e.g., cache) recently requested and\/or commonly requested content on communications device  for efficient subsequent access.","Additionally, hybrid web and native module  may include user interface module  that may allow a user to select one or more link selections . In one aspect, each link has an associated workflow directive  which may provide hybrid web and native module  additional processing information related to the link selection . In one aspect, workflow directive  may include fields indicating, links, data, objects, etc., and additional processing information associated with each of the fields.","Further, hybrid web and native module  may include workflow module  that may be operable to allow local operations on obtained data. In one aspect, workflow module may include pre-rendering module  which may be operable to process an obtained workflow directive  and pre-render a template available through layout module . Additionally, workflow module  may be configured to perform operations such as, but not limited to, content downloads (e.g., network interactions) and installations, local content licensing checks, network checks for content updates and possible subsequent downloads and installs, content purchases (e.g., calling in to content server  (e.g., a network-based purchase system), making a payment, obtaining a license, etc.).","In one aspect, workflow module  may include dynamic layout coding within layout module . Such dynamic layout coding may have presentation coding that is operable on data obtained from content server , and may control the presentation of said data. In one aspect, layout module  may include an updateable scripting code, such as LUA code, that may be updated (via a network update) to thereby allow efficient changes to the user experience associated with a native application.","Further, in one aspect, layout module  may further include a priority identifier corresponding to each piece of data of received content. For example, the content may include one or more objects, such as banners, etc., such as may be associated with a promotional set of content. Each object may have a corresponding priority identifier. As such, for example, layout module  may generate a view of a \u201clanding page\u201d user interface, and may lay out the objects on the page according to the respective priority identifier. For instance, the one or more of objects may be presented in an ordered list, and the priority identifiers may comprise a plurality of different values that define a relative placement of the respective objects in the ordered list. In another aspect, layout module  may include a device-specific UI template that may define layout of data. In such aspect, data from received content may be presented in different manners on different communications devices . Furthermore, in one aspect, each piece of data corresponding to received content may have an original data layout characteristic (e.g., defined in a workflow directive ), such as an aspect ratio. In such an aspect, workflow module  may be operable to use the workflow directive  information to generate additional versions of the data with different layout characteristics, such as different versions with different aspect ratios. For example, in an aspect, workflow module  can include a device database having a plurality of identified devices each with a device profile. Each device profile may include a display parameter that defines one or more device-specific layout parameters. Accordingly, workflow module  may generate one or more additional versions of the data having different layout characteristics to match each of the device-specific layout parameters in the device database.","In one aspect, content server  may include workflow module . As noted above, user interface module  may receive a user input selecting a link . Thereafter the link selection  may be transmitted to content server  to obtain the requested content. Workflow module  may be operable to process requests by providing one or more additional links , data , and\/or one or more objects . As noted above, each link , data set , and object  may be associated with a workflow directive . The workflow directive may be operable to provide a communications device  with additional information related to the associated item (link , data , object , etc.). For example, a workflow directive  associated with a link  may indicate a structure associated with content accessible through the link (e.g., list, parent directory, sub-directory, etc.). In another example, a work directive  associated with data  may indicate data set size, formatting, headers, etc. In still another example, as noted above, a workflow directive  associated with an object may indicate object priority, listing structure, presentation formatting, etc.","As such, communication network  provides an environment in which communications device  may enable a hybrid web and native module  that provides aspects of both a light application and a heavy application through interfacing of the web client portion with the stateful client portion. In other words, the light application functionality of a web client may be provided through user interface module  and the heavy application stateful client functionality may be provided through workflow module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 2","b":["3","4"]},"With reference now to , an example flowchart describing a system  which enables hybrid web and native functionality is illustrated. At reference numeral , a message may be received by a communications device. In one aspect, the message may include one or more links, data, objects, etc. Further, each of the one or more links, data, objects, etc. may be associated with a workflow directive. At reference numeral , a selection of a link is obtained. In one aspect, the link selection may be received from a user through a user interface. At reference numeral , a content request may be transmitted including the link selection. Contemporaneously, at reference , a workflow directive associated with the link selection may be processed by the communications device to pre-render a template. In one aspect, the template includes content formatting options, display\/layout options, etc. In one aspect, the workflow directive may provide priority to defined sets, types, etc., of data, objects, links, etc. At reference numeral , a content message is received in response to the content request. In one aspect, the content may include content associated with the content request and additional content provided by a content server. At reference numeral , at least a portion of the received content is applied to the pre-rendered template. In one aspect, if the received content does not match the template within a threshold value, the communication device may either determine a sub-portion of the received content to display, or request a new template. In an aspect, in which a sub-portion of the content is displayed, the device may determine the displayed portion through a priority list, may rotate through the content to display, etc.","With reference now to , a call flow diagram flowchart describing a system  for enabling hybrid web and native functionality is illustrated, according to one aspect. System  includes a communications device , such as communications device , and server , such as content server . At , communications device  may transmit a content request to server . In one aspect, the content request may be formatted as an HTTP request. At , the server  may transmit content in response to the request to the communications device. In one aspect, the content may include one or more links (URLs), objects (e.g., promotions), data, etc. In one aspect, the returned content may include content provided by the server  that is different from and in addition to the requested content. At , a link selection may be made on the communications device . In one aspect, the selection may be made by a user and received through a user interface. At , the selected link may be transmitted to the server . In one aspect, the link may include a request for one or more additional links, data, one or more additional objects, etc. At , communications device may process the workflow directive associated with the selected link to pre-render a template. In one aspect, the template may be selected to allow formatting, display layout, application activity, etc., to be initiated prior to receiving a response to the link selection. In one aspect,  may be performed contemporaneously with . At , content is transmitted by the server  in response to the link selection. At , at least a portion of the received content is applied to the template and displayed accordingly. In one aspect, if the received content does not match the template within a threshold value, the communications device  may either determine to display a sub-portion of the received content, or request a new template from server . In an aspect, in which a sub-portion of the content is displayed, the device may determine the displayed portion through a priority list, may rotate through the content to display, etc.","Referring to , a call flow diagram flowchart describing another system  for enabling hybrid web and native functionality is illustrated, according to one aspect. System  includes components associated with a communications device, such as user interface , pre-renderer  and template module , and server , such as content server .","At , a user selection may select a link through user interface , and the selected link, along with an associated workflow directive may be communicated to a pre-renderer . In one aspect, the workflow directive may provide formatting, layout, etc., parameters. At , the pre-renderer  may process the received workflow directive and communicate with template module  to obtain one or more applicable templates. Further, at , the pre-renderer  may transmit the link to a server  to obtain the requested content associated with the selected link. At , pre-renderer  may process the obtained one or more templates to prepare for the requested content. At act , the requested content may be received by pre-renderer . In one aspect, the received content may include requested items such as links, data, objects, etc., and workflow directives associated with each of the items. At , the received content is applied to the templates and displayed with the user interface . Optionally, where the received content includes additional workflow directives, pre-renderer  may process the received workflow directives in anticipation of one or more subsequent user selections.","While still referencing , but turning also now to , an example architecture of communications device  is illustrated. As depicted in , device  comprises receiver  that receives a signal from, for instance, a receive antenna (not shown), performs typical actions on (e.g., filters, amplifies, downconverts, etc.) the received signal, and digitizes the conditioned signal to obtain samples. Receiver  can comprise a demodulator  that can demodulate received symbols and provide them to processor  for channel estimation. Processor  can be a processor dedicated to analyzing information received by receiver  and\/or generating information for transmission by transmitter , a processor that controls one or more components of device , and\/or a processor that both analyzes information received by receiver , generates information for transmission by transmitter , and controls one or more components of device .","Device  can additionally comprise memory  that is operatively coupled to processor  and that can store data to be transmitted, received data, information related to available channels, data associated with analyzed signal and\/or interference strength, information related to an assigned channel, power, rate, or the like, and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. In one aspect, memory  can include one or more templates . In one aspect, templates  may be used to pre-render content, such as formatting, layout, etc., associated with a selected link, as defined through a workflow directive.","Further, processor  can provide means for obtaining a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links, wherein each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive. The processor  can further provide means for transmitting a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links. Further, the processor  can provide means for processing the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission. Additionally, the processor  can provide means for receiving a content message including content in response to the content request, and means for applying at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template.","It will be appreciated that data store (e.g., memory ) described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory, or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), Synchlink DRAM (SLDRAM), and direct Rambus RAM (DRRAM). Memory  of the subject systems and methods may comprise, without being limited to, these and any other suitable types of memory.","Device  can further include hybrid web and native module  which may be operable to provide integrated stateful functionality to allow for local operation on and\/or control of data. In one aspect, hybrid web and native module  may include workflow module  that may be operable to allow local operations on obtained data. In one aspect, workflow module  may include pre-rendering module  which may be operable to process an obtained workflow directive and pre-render a template available through layout module . Additionally, pre-rendering module  may be configured to perform operations such as, but not limited to, content downloads (e.g. network interactions) and installations, local content licensing checks, network checks for content updates and possible subsequent downloads and installs, or content purchases (e.g. calling in to a network-based purchase system, making a payment, obtaining a license, etc.).","In one aspect, workflow module  may include dynamic layout coding within layout module . Such dynamic layout coding may have presentation coding that is operable on data obtained from content server, and may control the presentation of said data. In one aspect, layout module  may include an updateable scripting code, such as LUA code, that may be updated (via a network update) to thereby allow efficient changes to the user experience associated with a native application.","Further, in one aspect, layout module  may further include a priority identifier corresponding to each piece of data of received content. For example, the content may include one or more objects, such as banners, etc., such as may be associated with a promotional set of content. Each object may have a corresponding priority identifier. As such, for example, layout module  may generate a view of a \u201clanding page\u201d user interface, and may lay out the objects on the page according to the respective priority identifier. For instance, the one or more objects may be presented in an ordered list, and the priority identifiers may comprise a plurality of different values that define a relative placement of the respective objects in the ordered list. In another aspect, layout module  may include a device-specific UI template that may define layout of data. In this manner, data from received content may be presented in different manners on different devices . Furthermore, in one aspect, each piece of data corresponding to received content may have an original data layout characteristic (e.g., defined in a workflow directive), such as an aspect ratio. In such an aspect, workflow module  may be operable to use the workflow directive information to generate additional versions of the data with different layout characteristics, such as different versions with different aspect ratios. For example, in an aspect, workflow module  can include a device database having a plurality of identified devices each with a device profile. In such aspect, each device profile may include a display parameter that defines one or more device-specific layout parameters. Accordingly, workflow module  may generate one or more additional versions of the data having different layout characteristics to match each of the device-specific layout parameters in the device database.","Additionally, communications device  may include user interface . User interface  may include input mechanisms  for generating inputs into communications device , and output mechanism  for generating information for consumption by the user of the communications device . For example, input mechanism  may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard, a mouse, a touch-screen display, a microphone, etc. Further, for example, output mechanism  may include a display, an audio speaker, a haptic feedback mechanism, a Personal Area Network (PAN) transceiver etc. In the illustrated aspects, the output mechanism  may include a display operable to present media content that is in image or video format or an audio speaker to present media content that is in an audio format. Further, user interface  may allow a user to select one or more links. In one aspect, each link has an associated workflow directive which may provide hybrid web and native module  additional processing information related to the link selection.","It will be appreciated that user identity module  described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory, or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), Synchlink DRAM (SLDRAM), and direct Rambus RAM (DRRAM).","With reference to , illustrated is a detailed block diagram of content system , such as content server  depicted in . Content system  may comprise at least one of any type of hardware, server, personal computer, mini computer, mainframe computer, or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further, the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by content system  may be executed entirely on a single network device, as shown in , or alternatively, in other aspects, separate servers, databases or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties, and\/or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between devices, such as communications device , and the modules and applications executed by content system .","Content system  includes computer platform  that can transmit and receive data across wired and wireless networks, and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform  includes memory , which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read-only and\/or random-access memory (ROM and RAM), EPROM, EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. Further, memory  may include one or more flash memory cells, or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device, such as magnetic media, optical media, tape, or soft or hard disk. Further, computer platform  also includes processor , which may be an application-specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d), or other chipset, logic circuit, or other data processing device. Processor  may include various processing subsystems  embodied in hardware, firmware, software, and combinations thereof, that enable the functionality of media content distribution system  and the operability of the network device on a wired or wireless network.","Computer platform  further includes communications module  embodied in hardware, firmware, software, and combinations thereof, that enables communications among the various components of content system , as well as between content system , and communications device . Communications module  may include the requisite hardware, firmware, software, and\/or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. According to described aspects, communications module  may include the necessary hardware, firmware, and\/or software to facilitate wireless and\/or wireline communication between content server  and communications device .","Memory  of content system  includes a workflow module  which may be operable to process requests by providing one or more links , data sets , and\/or one or more objects . As noted earlier, each link , data set , and object  may be associated with a workflow directive . The workflow directive may be operable to provide a communications device  with additional information related to the associated item (link , data , object , etc.). For example, a workflow directive  associated with a link  may indicate a structure associated with content accessible through the link (e.g., list, parent directory, sub-directory, etc.). In another example, a work directive  associated with data  may indicate data set size, formatting, headers, etc. In still another example, as noted above, a workflow directive  associated with an object may indicate object priority, listing structure, presentation formatting, etc.","Referring to , an apparatus  that enables a hybrid web and native application to reside at least partially within a mobile device is described, according to one aspect. It is to be appreciated that apparatus  is represented as including functional blocks, which can represent functions implemented by a processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). As such, apparatus  includes a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance, logical grouping  can include means for obtaining a selection of one link from a first set of one or more links, wherein each link of the first set of one or more links is associated with a workflow directive (Block ). For example, in an aspect, the means  can include hybrid and native module  and\/or processor . In one aspect, the content may include a second set of one or more links, one or more objects, a template format update, etc. In one such aspect, where the content includes a template format update, apparatus  may provide means for updating the pre-rendered template based on the received template format update. In another aspect, the content may include data that includes a first set of data associated with the content request, and a second set of data provided by a content server. In such an aspect, the second set of data may include objects, promotions, one or more links, etc. In one aspect, the workflow directive may include priority indications associated with displaying the received content using the template. In such an aspect, the priority indications may include an ordered list for displaying at least one of: the data, or the one or more objects.","Further, logical grouping  can include means for transmitting a content request including the obtained selection of the one link from the one or more links (Block ). For example, in an aspect, the means  can include transmitter  and\/or processor . Further, logical grouping  can include means for processing the workflow directive associated with the one link from the first set of one or more links to pre-render a template contemporaneously with the content request transmission (Block ). For example, in an aspect, the means  can include hybrid and native module  and\/or processor . Further, logical grouping  can include means for receiving a content message including content in response to the content request (Block ). For example, in an aspect, the means  can include receiver  and\/or processor . Further, logical grouping  can include means for applying at least a portion of the received content from the content message to the pre-rendered template (Block ). For example, in an aspect, the means  can include hybrid and native module  and\/or processor .","Additionally, apparatus  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components , , , , and . While shown as being external to memory , it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components , , ,  and  can exist within memory . In an aspect, for example, memory  may be the same as or similar to memory  ().","In one aspect, apparatus  can provide means for receiving a first message including the first set of one or more links and data, one or more objects, etc. In such an aspect, each of the data, and one or more objects may be associated with a workflow directive. In another aspect, apparatus  can provide means for determining content formatting, display layout, etc., for the template from the workflow directive. In another aspect, apparatus  can provide means for mapping a portion of the received content to the template. In another aspect, apparatus  can provide means for determining that the at least a portion of the content does not match the pre-rendered template, means for determining a sub-portion of the content to apply to the template, and means for applying the sub-portion to the template. In another aspect, apparatus  can provide means for determining the at least a portion of the content does not match the pre-rendered template, means for transmitting a template format update request to match the received content, means for receiving a second template format update in response to the template format update request, and means for applying the at least a portion of the received content to a second template generated using the second template format update.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d and the like are intended to include a computer-related entity, such as but not limited to hardware, firmware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers. In addition, these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and\/or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets, such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system, distributed system, and\/or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.","Furthermore, various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal, which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal A terminal can also be called a system, device, subscriber unit, subscriber station, mobile station, mobile, mobile device, remote station, remote terminal, access terminal, user terminal, terminal, communication device, user agent, user device, or user equipment (UE). A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone, a satellite phone, a cordless telephone, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) phone, a wireless local loop (WLL) station, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a handheld device having wireless connection capability, a computing device, or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover, various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal(s) and may also be referred to as an access point, a Node B, or some other terminology.","Moreover, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor.\u201d That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from the context, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied by any of the following instances: X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.","The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA, TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, SC-FDMA and other systems. The terms \u201csystem\u201d and \u201cnetwork\u201d are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA), cdma2000, etc. UTRA includes Wideband-CDMA (W-CDMA) and other variants of CDMA. Further, cdma2000 covers IS-2000, IS-95, and IS-856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), Ultra Mobile Broadband (UMB), IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi), IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX), IEEE 802.20, Flash-OFDM, etc. UTRA and E-UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS). 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a release of UMTS that uses E-UTRA, which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC-FDMA on the uplink. UTRA, E-UTRA, UMTS, LTE, and GSM are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP). Additionally, cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2). Further, such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer-to-peer (e.g., mobile-to-mobile) ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums, 802.xx wireless LAN, BLUETOOTH and any other short- or long-range, wireless communication techniques.","Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices, components, modules, and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices, components, modules, etc. and\/or may not include all of the devices, components, modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.","The various illustrative logics, logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but, in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. Additionally, at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and\/or actions described above.","Further, the steps and\/or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, a hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An example storage medium may be coupled to the processor, such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further, in some aspects, the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally, the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally, in some aspects, the steps and\/or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and\/or instructions on a machine readable medium and\/or computer readable medium, which may be incorporated into a computer program product.","In one or more aspects, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection may be termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and\/or implementations, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and\/or implementations as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore, although elements of the described aspects and\/or implementations may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally, all or a portion of any aspect and\/or implementation may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and\/or implementation, unless stated otherwise."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The disclosed aspects will hereinafter be described in conjunction with the appended drawings, provided to illustrate and not to limit the disclosed aspects, wherein like designations denote like elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
