---
title: Cargo locking mechanisms and structures
abstract: Locking mechanisms and assemblies for securing cargo to a transportation platform without requiring the use of strapping or equivalent. Advantageously, the locking mechanism may be integrated into a container such that each container may be interlocked with an underlying and/or overlying container. Autolocking variations to the locking mechanism provide a more automated, secure and less labor intensive way to secure cargo.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08459911&OS=08459911&RS=08459911
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08459911
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110909
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","This disclosure relates generally to the field of cargo and\/or material transport. More particularly, it pertains to an apparatus and structures for securing cargo and\/or materials to transportation systems.","The transportation of cargo and\/or material is a ubiquitous function in contemporary society. Associated with this transportation is the necessary function of securing the cargo and\/or material to the transportation system\/platform. Unfortunately, this securing of cargo and\/or material oftentimes involves strapping or other systems which are labor intensive and frequently present significant safety concerns.","An advance in the art is made according to an aspect of the present disclosure directed to a locking mechanism and structures for securing cargo and\/or materials to a transportation system\/platform.","Viewed from a first aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a locking mechanism for securing cargo to a transportation platform without requiring the use of strapping or equivalent. Advantageously, the locking mechanism may be integrated into a container such that each container may be interlocked with an underlying and\/or overlying container.","Viewed from another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to an autolocking mechanism which allows the safe loading\/unloading\/securing of cargo to transportation systems and\/or platforms using only forklift-type machinery. As a result, loading and unloading of cargo may be performed by only a single driver of the forklift without significant risk of injury. When configured having a form factor like that of a contemporary fork lift pallet or skid, the autolocking mechanism provides a pallet structure upon which cargo or other goods may be loaded and then conveniently loaded\/unloaded. Advantageously, the autolocking mechanism according to the present disclosure secures all four corners of the pallet\/container in which it is integrated, and permits the secure stacking of such palletized cargo.","The following merely illustrates the principles of the disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which, although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.","Furthermore, all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor(s) to furthering the art, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.","Moreover, all statements herein reciting principles, aspects, and embodiments of the disclosure, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such equivalents include both currently-known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of structure.","Thus, for example, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative structures embodying the principles of the disclosure.","With reference now to , there is shown a schematic diagram of a representative palletized cargo container  having an integrated locking pallet  base according to an aspect of the present disclosure. As is known, a pallet\u2014or oftentimes a skid\u2014is a flat transport structure that supports goods in a stable manner while being lifted by a forklift, pallet jack, front loader or other jacking device. When goods are secured directly to a pallet, they are oftentimes secured with strapping, chains or even shrinkwrap. Advantageously, with the integrated container\/pallet shown in , no strapping is required.","As is known and appreciated by those skilled in the art, a contemporary pallet (or fork lift pallet) is constructed from a number of wooden planks positioned upon stringers to create an integrated assembly. Such contemporary (wooden) pallets typically have two stringer sides and two lift sides\u2014meaning that only two sides may receive the forks of the lift. With reference to the integrated container\/pallet shown in , the structure is able to receive the forks of a lift on all four sides as fork pockets  are included on all four.","Notably, locking pins  are located in the center of the side portion of the pallet base  generally in the center of the two fork pockets . In this exemplary embodiment, the locking pins are normally withdrawn within the sides of the pallet until manually activated at which time they become extended from the sides of the pallet such that they may engage locking pin receivers (locking loops)\u2014such as those shown as  on the top of the container.","As may be appreciated, when a modular container\/pallet with integrated locking is positioned upon a transport surface having mating sets of locking pin receivers, the modular container\/pallet may be secured to that transport surface by manually activating the locking pins  until they engage the mated locking pin receivers which are part of that transport surface.","Similarly, a modular container\/pallet with integrated locking may be stacked\u2014one on another\u2014wherein the lower modular container\/pallet provides the locking pin receivers into which the locking pins of the top modular container\/pallet are inserted.  shows such a stacked configuration wherein a top container  is stacked upon a lower container  and the locking pins of the upper container engage the locking pin receivers on the top of that lower container .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["310","325","315","320"]},"Operationally, a locking pin  is located at each corner of the autolocking mechanism which in a preferred embodiment may be configured and exhibit the same form factor as a conventional fork lift pallet. Each of the locking pins  is connected to a flap . As may be understood and appreciated from this , when the forks of a lift are inserted into fork pockets and engage the fork tine flaps\u2014by pushing them inward toward the center in preparation to lift the pallet\u2014the lock pins  are withdrawn and unlock. The connecting rod  provides the rotational and translational forces necessary to withdraw the lock pins on the opposite side of the pallet. In this inventive manner, when the fork tines engage the flaps on a particular side and unlock the pins the autolocking mechanism and its load will be freed for lifting.","Similarly, when a load positioned upon a pallet (with an autolocking mechanism according to the present disclosure) is placed at a desired location and the fork tines are removed from the fork pockets, the fork tine flaps  re-orient under urging by the spring  such that the locking pins  are extended and therefore capable of engaging locking pin receivers such as those shown in  with respect to the modular container\/pallet. Not specifically shown in these figures are a manual override mechanism which permits an operator to engage the flaps and secure them into position such that the locking pins are withdrawn.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["310","310"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4B","FIGS. 4A-4B","FIGS. 4A-4B","FIGS. 4A-4B"],"b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","520","525","530","540","520","520","510","530"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["510","520","525","530","520","540","510"]},"Turning now to , there shown a cargo platform suitable for use with pallet base autolocking assemblies such as those shown and described. As shown in the , the cargo platform includes a series of locking pin receivers (locking loops)  which are spaced to receive the locking pins of the autolocking assemblies previously described. As such, when cargo\u2014positioned upon a pallet base autolocking assembly , \u2014is aligned with and positioned upon the locking pin receivers the locking pins  of the assembly engage the receivers and secure the assembly and the cargo to the platform. Advantageously, and as can be readily appreciated, such a configuration assures uniform loading and facilitates balancing of the load upon the platform while positively securing the load to the platform.","In a preferred embodiment, the present disclosure is implemented as a Container Roll in\/out Platform (CROP). As is known, conventional CROP structures are approximately a 20\u2032 by 8\u2032 platform that is primarily used in conjunction with the Army Load Handling System (LHS). The LHS is typically mounted on a large transportation truck, and can lift the CROP from the ground onto the back of the truck for transport. This system is designed for typically moving palletized or general cargo. Specifically, this platform is the prime mover for all of the US Army's ammunition in tactical settings.","A king Modular Intermodal Container (JMIC) (such as the container shown as ,  in ) is a standardized container with standardized lockdown points. Each JMIC has four receptacles for lockdown points (), one under each base corner. These receptacles accept a standardized ring-shaped protrusion in a standardized pattern. Additionally, in this preferred embodiment, each includes four lockdown points on top () for stacking one container onto another and securing. Advantageously, the autolocking mechanism of the present disclosure facilitates this stacking and locking as can be viewed from this .","Currently, these two systems to not interact in any sort of mechanical fashion. The JMICs can be transported on the CROP utilizing traditional tiedown procedures, which does not make use of their unique interlocking features, is time-consuming, and can pose safety concerns.","The CROP-JMIC Interlock System when integrated with the autolocking mechanism of the present disclosure advantageously combines these systems into a surprisingly easy to use overall system.","In this preferred embodiment, the interlock loops are positioned in groups of four such that they match the required footprint of the JMIC. Furthermore, groups of four interlocks are spread out such that they make a 2\u00d74 grid on the top surface of the CROP, allowing for the placement of 8 JMICs on the top surface of the CROP. Of course, those skilled in the art will appreciate that additional JMICs\u2014including the autolocking system of the present disclosure\u2014may be stacked\/locked upon the top surfaces of these JMIC containers secured to the top surface of the CROP. In this manner, a secure stack of JMICs may be assembled and transported without any additional tie-down or strapping.","Of additional interest, the interlocks (locking loops\/receiving loops) are all foldable such that they fold down flat when not in use thereby returning the surface of the CROP returns to a flat, usable surface.","The locking loops receiving loops  are shown in a more detailed view in . As shown in the figure, when a container  with integrated autolock system according to the present disclosure is in position, each of the corners of the container  are proximate to a locking loop . In this manner, when the container system is positioned with a fork truck or the like, and the fork truck is withdrawn, the four locking pins  will engage the locking loops adjacent to the pins and secure the system in place.","At this point, while we have discussed and described the autolocking assembly and configurations thereof it is noted that variations to those disclosed are contemplated. Accordingly, the scope of the disclosure should be only limited by the claims attached hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["A more complete understanding of the present disclosure may be realized by reference to the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
