---
title: Reversible heating/cooling structure usable as a pop-up shelter
abstract: A structure, e.g. a pop-up tent, usable in extremes of temperature, wind, and aridity. One side of the structure's fabric reflects heat, and the other absorbs heat. The structure is reversible, so that, depending which side is outside and which inside, the structure either rejects or absorbs ambient heat, making the structure cooler in hot environments, and warmer in cool environments. The structure can have a detachable base with a hollow chamber in which one can put thermally insulating fluid (e.g. water) to add further comfort, which also provides additional physical and thermal stability to the structure. An optional moisture collector is disposable inside to collect condensate for recycling, and the fabric of the structure can be hydrophobic to direct other condensate to the base and away from occupants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08534305&OS=08534305&RS=08534305
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08534305
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110415
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The invention pertains to portable, habitable, structures, in particular tents, and particularly readily portable pop-up tents.","Pop-structures are known, and are used to form tents that can be flattened and folded for easy transport, and can readily pop-up into the shape of a tent for ready deployment. However, such tents are not designed for comfort in areas that experience extreme variations in hot, cold, arid, and windy weather. For example, Afghanistan has nearly 300 sunny days per year, maximum temperatures of near 95\u00b0 F. to lows around 20\u00b0 F., and winds ranging from a constant 5 to 14 MPH, in a relatively arid climate in which rainfall averages less than 12 inches per year and wind chill can be near zero degrees Fahrenheit. Inexpensive pop-up shelters that can protect and provide comfort to users in such a climate would thus be of value to military troops deployed in such areas, campers and hikers, and even the local indigenous population.","Conventional tents deployed in cold weather tend to form warm vapor on inside tent surfaces, making conditions inside unpleasant, and losing water which, if retrievable, would be a benefit in arid areas. For example, on a typical evening in Afghanistan about one cup of water from exhaled air can condense on a tent wall surface and begin to drip on occupants, which can be a serious problem. In a tent built for two this could result in as much as 16 ounces of water being dripped onto occupants and gear making the environment cold, wet, and uncomfortable.","Accordingly, an object of the invention is provide a structure useable as a tent that is easily deployable and storable, and that also provides thermal comfort to those within the structure in extremes of hot and cold.","Another object is to prevent water condensation from dripping onto occupants and other contents within such a structure.","Another object is to enable recovery of water condensate within such a structure.","In accordance with these and other objects made apparent hereinafter, the invention concerns a structure, useable as a tent, having a cover and structural elements disposed therein to permit the cover to lay flat or stand erect. The cover has at least two layers, one of which reflects, and the other of which absorbs, ambient heat. Because of this, the structure can stand erect with either of the layers directed outwards, and the other inwards, which permits the structure to define an enclosed living space which is cooled or heated with respect to ambient depending on which layer is outwardly disposed. This also permits a user to readily deploy the structure, or fold it for easy storage. The structure can have a detachable base with a cavity fillable with fluid such as air or water, to give the structure added stability, particularly in high winds, and provide thermal inertia to insulate the enclosed space from the ground. The structure can also have a water collector that uses the Lotus Effect to collect condensate on the top of the enclosed space to prevent the condensate from dripping on an occupant, and to permit recapture and reuse of the water, a particular advantage in dry environments.","These and other objects, features, and advantages are further understood from the following detailed description of particular embodiments of the invention. It is understood, however, that the invention is capable of extended application beyond the precise details of these embodiments. Changes and modifications can be made to the embodiments that do not affect the spirit of the invention, nor exceed its scope, as expressed in the appended claims. The embodiments are described with particular reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:","With reference to the drawing figures, wherein like numbers indicate like parts throughout the several views,  shows a structure  having a cover , preferably in the form of a fabric shell, into which is sewn, in any conventional manner about cover 's periphery, spring loops . Cover  mounts on an optional base , which may be detachable (n.b. ). Spring loops  make member  a pop-up structure such that, by use of the outward force of spring loops , and by pushing or pulling structure  in the vicinity of handle , one can cause structure  to flatten or to deploy upright as shown in , and, more importantly, be reversible, that is one can deploy structure  with either side of cover  outwardly facing, and either side inwardly facing. The combination of cover  and spring loops  permit structure  to be folded and laid flat such that spring loops  can be disposed one on top of each other, and then the loops twisted, perhaps several times, in figure-eight patterns to fold structure  into a compact size suitable for easy storage in a relatively small space. Such pop-up structures are usable as quick-deployable tents, and structure  is illustrated as a tent. Structure  has a sealable vent opening , and a door flap  to permit entry and exit.","With particular reference to , cover  is seen in section, and seen to have a fabric base  on which are layers , , one of which is thermally reflective, and one of which is thermally absorbent. Note that layers ,  can also be in direct contact with each other. In practice, if structure  is in a cold environment, one would deploy structure  with the thermally absorbent (i.e., solar absorbtive) side outward to take in heat from the environment, which, in turn will heat through to the opposite side of cover , thus warming the inside of structure . Conversely, in a hot environment, one deploys structure  with the thermally reflective (i.e., heat reflecting) side of cover  outwardly disposed to reject solar heat and thus keep the inside of structure  cooler than would be possible without the reflective surface.","The material constituting cover  may be one of a number of fabric textile materials that can be metalized with a highly ultraviolet\/infrared (UV\/IR) reflective coating on one side and a black matte metallic coating on the other. The black matte coating does not necessarily have to be metallic but a metallic coating is preferable for enhanced thermal transmission of absorbed radiation to the interior of structure  when in the heating configuration indicated above. The solar heating configuration will have the black matte surface on the outside with the reflective surface on the inside. In this configuration solar black body radiation is absorbed, heating the shell and radiating inward to heat the interior of structure . The reflective surface on the inside acts to collect and retain the heat reaching inside, and also acts to reflect and contain body heat radiated by the occupants of structure . In the solar shading\/cooling configuration structure  is reversed and the reflective coating is placed on the outside of structure . In this manner 90-99% of solar radiation on hot sunny days can be reflected away from the structure allowing the interior to stay cooler than if no solar reflection were employed, thus keeping occupants cooler than in other conventional unconditioned spaces.","While many different composite fabric choices may be employed, a particularly advantageous choice for simplicity and durability is a light-weight Mylar\/Kevlar\/Mylar composite metal coated on one side with highly reflective aluminum or silver oxide, and coated on the other side with a black metal oxide such as Black-Chrome for solar radiation absorption.","An example of another composite material for cover  that can be used and metalized is APEN 18 laminate sailcloth distributed by Sailrite Enterprises, Inc., 4506 S. State Rd. 9, Churubusco, Ind. APEN-18 laminate sailcloth is a film on film laminate made of 100% EURO PEN fill and cross (45 degree) yarn with two layers of Mylar film. The EURO PEN modulus of elasticity is 2\u00bd times higher than polyethylene (PET) (standard Dacron\u00ae) and since this modulus is a measure of a fiber's ability to resist stretching, structures made with EURO PEN fibers will stretch less and hold their designed shape longer in wind and repeated use conditions.","When structure  is in the heating configuration, the reflective and shiny inner fabric walls may also have a band of moisture absorbing fabric  running the circumference of cover , preferably about six inches above the bottom (). Moisture absorbing fabric  layer can be made from something as simple as pressed cotton layers alone or impregnated with silica\/desiccant and will be useful in humid environments in which warm moist exhale from occupants encounters a cooler interior wall on cold nights and cloudy cold days and condenses out as water. This will help keep moisture from pooling on the tent floor and wetting occupants or contents as the beads travel down the tent wall. To help the moisture to slide down the walls of structure , cover  could be coated with a hydrophobic, and preferably superhydrophobic, coating on both sides to repel water and help water slide down the tent walls toward moisture absorbing fabric  more readily.","If a Mylar-Kevlar-Mylar composite-pressed-glued-sandwich fabric is used for cover , then the energy absorbing side of the Mylar can also be coated with a metalized aluminum-oxide substrate, which in turn is covered with: (1) a Black-Chrome coating, producing a 5% reflection and a 15% reflected radiance loss, for a total of 20% loss (80% Absorption) or (2) a Selective Absorption coating, for example the ALMECO-TiNOX coating of Almeco-TiNOX GmbH, producing a 5% reflection and a 5% reflected radiance loss, for a total of 10% loss or 90% absorption.","The energy rejecting side  or  (depending which way reversible structure  is opened) of cover  can be regular reflective Mylar film (90% reflectivity), which may be optionally coated with silicone to preserve surface finish.","Additionally, cover  may also be layered such that a polypropylene based non-woven perforated fabric (corresponding to base layer  of ) has a similar metalization ,  on the heat rejecting side and absorbing side. In this embodiment, both metalizations can advantageously be the material whose product name is Temptrol, available from Innovative Insulation, Inc., 6200 W. Pioneer Parkway, Arlington, Tex. A TemptrolT radiant barrier reflects 95% of radiant heat. The TemptrolT in  would be tinted black on one side and silver on the other (corresponding respectively to the heat absorbing and heat rejecting sides), with preferably an additional superhydrophobic coating on both sides to repel water. Reflectivity would be a bit less, but radiant heat rejection will be much greater, resulting in much lower temperatures inside the tent because the radiant heat from the roof will not be radiated into the tent when in the cooling orientation. Note that the superhydrophobic coating will cause the fabric to repel water to such a degree that natural rainfall will clean the outside surface of the tent as well.","Another fabric scheme having the same general structure as illustrated in  can be made of Flashgro Reflective Fabric. Reflective Agricultural Flashgro is a highly reflective film with a metalized polyester surface and a tough woven poly backing material. Flashgro reflects both heat and light in an even dispersed pattern on one side and can be produced with black pigment on the other side for energy absorption.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 4 and 5","b":["16","35","17","10","35","34","12","16","12","12","16","10","12","16","34","12","36","12","36","16","17","16","16","12","10","10","17","10","16","10","17","16"]},"FIGS.  and - show a moisture collector  attached to the interior top of structure , with a space  left therebetween. Collector  is of air permeable material, for example air permeable fabric formed into a closed surface to define an inner convex surface  and an outer concave surface , with large and small openings  and , respectively, at opposite ends. Such curvature is preferable because it forms a de facto funnel to catch condensate from the top of cover , and collect the condensate in receptacle , which preferably hangs by supports  from receptacle  below small opening . Inner surface  of receptacle  is coated with a hydrophobic, and preferably superhydrophobic, compound to make use of the Lotus Effect. As warm wet air, such as air exhaled by occupants of structure , rises up, vapor passes through the fabric of collector  into space  and comes in contact with the cool roof of structure . This vapor then condenses and begins to form water droplets on the underside of the roof. When enough vapor has condensed the droplets coalesce into larger droplets that fall from the ceiling. These droplets are now too large to pass through the treated fabric (liquid vice vapor) and, because of the superhydrophobic surface treatment, the water is repelled from inner surface  of collector . Friction with collector  is low (reduced droplet contact area) and the droplets shed and travel down inner side  of collector  due to gravity and exit bottom center via hole  where it drips into receptacle  for collection. In this manner, as much as 16 ounces of fresh water may be collected and recycled per day. Tubing (not shown) may also be used in place of a cup and the water routed out of the tent if reuse is not desired. The fabric of collector  may be attached to the roof of structure  in any number of ways that include but are not limited to zippers, Velcro, snaps, ties, etc. An example of such a superhydrophobic fabric\/coating arrangement for collector  would be cotton coated with a particulate silica sol solution of co-hydrolyzed TEOS\/fluorinated alkyl silane with NH3-H2O. PET (Polyethylene), vinyl, polyester and wool coated with the same mixture will also result in stable superhydrophobic surfaces with water contact angles over 170 degrees and droplet sliding angles below 7 degrees to most effectively shed water to a collection reservoir. The condensate collecting superhydrophobic water recovery system could also be manufactured using TemptrolT Radiant Curtain coated on inner surface  in the manner described above, with a reflective coating placed on outer surface  to reflect the heat of the occupants back toward them. Note that the overhead size and coverage area of opening  of collector  can be selected to collect condensate from as large a portion of structure 's roof as desired. Obviously, a larger flatter roof would entail the need for a larger collector  with a larger opening  across the top\/roof area of structure .","The invention has been described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized, however, that obvious modifications to these embodiments may occur to those with skill in this art. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is to be discerned from reference to the appended claims, wherein:"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":"20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
