---
title: Techniques to restore communications sessions for applications having conversation and meeting environments
abstract: Techniques for restoring communications sessions for applications having conversation environment and a meeting embodiment are described. A system may include a meeting component of a communications application for selecting a meeting from multiple meetings, a conversation component of the communications application for managing multiple conversation threads, and a recovery component of the communications application for recovering an active meeting from the multiple meetings or an active conversation thread from the multiple conversation threads. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171284&OS=09171284&RS=09171284
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09171284
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED CASE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a Continuation-In-Part of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/395,729 titled \u201cCommunications Application Having Conversation and Meeting Environments\u201d filed on Mar. 2, 2009, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Communications applications are available for enabling users to have conversations in which synchronous, real-time communication is occurring between parties. For example, conversations have traditionally been held over telephones, though telephone conversation capability has been extended through conference calling, video conferencing, and multiple party conversations via voice over IP (VoIP).","In addition to telephone, conversations have come to include text-based forms of real-time communication such as instant messaging and group chat. In these approaches, two or more users exchange text messages that are transmitted and read by all users. The users participate in an exchange of messages that occurs synchronously for all users. In this way, synchronous text-based conversations can differ from communications such as email in which the parties are not in synchronous, real-time communication, but exchange messages over extended periods of time.","Network-based meetings are also performed online in which one party shares a computer desktop or application with one or more other parties over a network connection. In this way, all meeting participants are able to view a common presentation and interact to exchange ideas. A meeting can be any type of collaboration session, including those in which each participant can speak to the other participants or exchange text messages, for example.","Typically, different applications can be used for conversations and meetings. Oftentimes, a different application is used for each different type of conversation, for example, an instant messaging application for texting and a separate VoIP application for voice conversations over IP networks. Additionally, instant messaging, chat threads, and recorded VoIP conversations can be saved for future reference. However, it can be difficult, for example, for a user to organize the various conversation applications and locate saved conversations in addition to managing a separate meeting application. Furthermore, it can be difficult, for example, for a user to restore lost communications and associated context for different types of conversations and meetings. It is with respect to these and other considerations that improvements are needed.","The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview, and it is not intended to identify key\/critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","To that end, architecture is disclosed for bringing a conversation environment and a meeting environment into a single communications application. In this way, a user experience is provided that enables communication and collaboration around applications and related topics, projects and documents rather than verbal or text-based communication.","The communications application includes a meeting component for providing a meeting environment to the user. The meeting component enables the user to select a particular meeting from multiple meetings. A meeting schedule component tracks scheduled online meetings defined according to a list. An ad hoc collaboration component enables the user to create an ad hoc meeting. In this way, users can initiate, interact and manage meetings seamlessly inside a single communications application. The meetings environment also enables the user to manage content related to one or more of the meetings, such as applications, documents and other pre-meeting or post-meeting content.","The communications application also includes a conversation component for providing a conversation environment to the user. The conversation component enables the user to manage multiple conversation threads. The multiple conversation threads can be in any suitable format, such as instant messaging, group chat, telephone calls, or an online meeting. The conversation threads can include active conversation threads, past conversation threads, and persistent conversation threads, for example. The communications application also enables the user to perform searches of the meetings and conversations.","The communications application further includes a recovery component for restoring a communications session for an active communications item in response to a recovery event. An active communications item may comprise, for example, a communications session for an active meeting or an active conversation thread. A recovery event may comprise, for example, an interruption of a communications session for an active communications item. A store component stores recovery information for an active communications item, and a monitor component monitors various aspects of a communications session for the active communications item to detect a recovery event. When a recovery event is detected, a recovery component attempts to automatically recover the communications session and associated context using the recovery information, with the recovered communications session having identical or similar session information and content used before the recovery event.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The disclosed communications architecture provides a user experience that includes a conversation environment and a meeting embodiment in a single real-time communications application. Real-time communications applications are people-centric, and all communications are only centered on people. As VoIP solutions evolved, a phone environment has been added; however, the introduction of conversations and meeting into the real-time application provides a rich user experience for addressing modalities heretofore not available in a single real-time communications application.","A navigation menu enables the user to select between multiple communications environments, including a conversations environment and a meeting environment, among other selections. Multiple conversation threads can be accessed in various conversation formats, including formats associated with instant messaging, group chat, a telephone call, voice, video, email, application sharing, and an online meeting, for example. A meeting environment can be navigated for accessing one or more meetings. Other suitable communications environments can be also be navigated from the same navigation menu, besides the conversation environment and meeting environment.","The disclosed architecture brings the management of different types of conversations (e.g., text-based, audio-based, etc.) into a single communications application, thus allowing a user to navigate and move seamlessly between conversations. Real-time messaging applications are \u201cpeople-centric\u201d since the various modalities of communication are centered on people and associated human interactions. A \u201cmeeting\u201d is a specialized type of interaction where users are collaborating with multiple modalities (e.g., voice, text, video, documents, desktop sharing, etc.). A conversation on the telephone or with text can be escalated to a meeting experience. Conversely, a meeting can lead to a follow-up conversation on a phone or conference call. Rather than using multiple separate applications for these interactions, incorporating both a conversation environment and a meeting environment into a single communication application allows the user to navigate through ad hoc and scheduled communications, follow-up on past and missed conversations and escalate these communications into an immersive real-time meeting experience.","The communications system and application also includes a selection pane for displaying a list of the conversation threads or meetings, depending on the environment selected by the user. The selection pane can include a list of active conversation threads or meetings, as well as lists of history conversation threads or meetings and persistent conversation threads or meetings. A preview pane can also be included in the communications system. The preview pane displays a preview of a specific item from the list shown in the selection pane.","The communications system and application further includes a recovery architecture for recovering or restoring a communications session for an active communications item in response to a recovery event. Many times, a communications session for a meeting or conversation thread may be unexpectedly disrupted due to internal or external problems, or sometimes even human error. For instance, a client device may incur a communications error such as loss of radio channels or network disconnect, a computing error such as application failure and restart, a platform error such as loss of power, or an accidental activation of an end button by the user, among many others. When a recovery event occurs, a user typically needs to manually restart a communications session and may not have the necessary information readily available, such as a conference number and access code, for example. Further, a recovery event causes a loss of context for the communications session, including any previous information conveyed during the communications session, which may include previous texts, voice, audio, video, documents, notes, and so forth. The recovery architecture attempts to solve these and other problems by monitoring for a recovery event and automatically recovering a lost communications session, including any context for the communications session such as historical information used prior to the recovery event. In this manner, a user may experience a seamless and smooth recovery of communications and context for a meeting or conversation thread, among other types of activities.","Reference is now made to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident, however, that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.","It is worthy to note that descriptions of some embodiments may use one or more reference variables, such as a reference variable N, for example. Each reference variable may represent any positive integer. Further, use of identical reference variables (e.g., N) in varying descriptions do not necessarily indicate that a same value needs to be assigned to each instance of an identical reference variable.","Communications Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","102","106","108","104","110"]},"Through the meeting component , the meeting environment provides easy access to online meetings and related content. The meeting component  enables online meetings to be created in the communications application  that are available in the meeting environment. The meeting component  provides access to meeting-related content stored on external applications, such as a remote server. The meeting component  also provides one-click access to join available meetings displayed within the communications application , as discussed in detail hereinbelow. Additionally, a user can search all meetings to which access is available. In these ways, the meeting component  enables a range of online conferencing capabilities to become integral parts of meetings and provides users with a single application to join and participate in meetings.","The conversation component  provides conversation management for users participating in multiple online conversations. This helps users organize conversation threads  according to individual users or topics. A user can also browse or search other ongoing conversation threads  related to a given topic or project, as will be set forth in greater detail hereinbelow. It is to be appreciated that conversation threads  can be associated with different conversation types, including but not limited to, instant messaging, group chat, telephone calls, video, and\/or an online meeting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["102","100","202","204","204","202","204","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["206","208","104"]},"As also illustrated in , a search component  can be used for performing searches of the multiple meetings. This enables the user to locate meetings or content that can be related to a specific, project, or site, located on a network server or other remote storage location. In one aspect, metadata can be incorporated into meetings as part of an existing meeting file or as a separate, associated index file. Thus, the search component  enables a search of meetings to be performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","304","106","302","304","302","304","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","108","400","402","108"]},"The conversation threads  can also include past conversation threads . The conversation component  enables the user to view a conversation history of recent or old conversation threads  and quickly restart a conversation.","The conversation threads  can also include persistent conversation threads . The conversation component  enables the user to view, create, and manage topic or group-centric conversations that persist over a period of time between multiple users. It is to be appreciated that the conversation threads  can include other types of conversations in addition to those indicated hereinabove, and that the conversation threads  depicted are not to be construed as limiting in any way.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","502","504","506","504","508","108","510","102"]},"As illustrated in , the conversation component  provides the user with a conversation environment in which the communications items  include one or more conversation threads presented in one or more a conversation formats. The conversation format can include any suitable format, such as those associated with instant messaging, group chat, a telephone call, voice or audio, video, email, application sharing, and\/or meeting formats.","As also illustrated in , the meeting component  provides the user with a meeting environment in which the communications items  include one or more meetings. As mentioned in connection with the aforementioned embodiment, the meeting component  can include aspects of managing meeting history, upcoming meetings, and managing meeting content within the real-time communications environment.","As also illustrated in , the navigation menu component  includes selection options for different communications component types selected from the communication components , in addition to the conversation component  and the meeting component . These different communications component types can include components for \u201cpeople & groups\u201d and \u201cphone\u201d environments, for example. Combining multiple different communication environments together in a single communication application brings a new dimension to how users manage a communications experience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["512","506","512","514","516","506"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["518","518","518","518","518","518"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["512","512","600","512","602","604","512"]},"As described hereinabove the communication system  can define a conversation environment and a meeting environment in a single communications application. However, the communication system  and the associated application can also include a \u201cpeople & groups\u201d environment and \u201cphone\u201d environment. In such an implementation, the navigation menu component  can provide a conversation environment that enables users to manage active, past and persistent conversations, along with a meeting environment that enables users to manage communications around scheduled and ad hoc collaborations among users and topics.","As disclosed herein, the subject embodiments provide a single unified user experience that provides meetings and conversations and other types of conversations to be managed as objects for initiating communication and collaboration, regardless of the storage or data source. In this way, the subject embodiments provide advantages over previous systems that employ unrelated applications that store various communications in different, unassociated locations.","Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the one or more methodologies shown herein, for example, in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram, are shown and described as a series of acts, it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts, as some acts may, in accordance therewith, occur in a different order and\/or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram. Moreover, not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["800","802","702","804","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["900","902","702","904","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 7"],"b":["1000","1002","1004","1006","1008"]},"Additionally, it is to be appreciated that one or more different communications environment types can be selected in the communications application. These different communications environment types are different from the conversations environment and meetings environment, and can be suitably used for any different sort of communication that might be contemplated by a user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1100","1100"]},"As illustrated in , the interface  includes an identification display  that can display a user name, status, contact information, and any other suitable information relevant to the user. One or more communications environments are accessible through navigation selectors, for example, a phone selector , a people & groups selector , a meetings selector , and a conversations selector . The meetings selector  is indicated as selected, shown with an \u201cM.\u201d Other fields display information relevant to meetings, and the information in these fields varies depending if another selector is selected. Calendar information  is also displayed, to indicate the date and time, and the user's availability until a specific time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1114","1114","1114","1114"]},"The meeting information field  can also be selected to display tagged meetings. These are meetings that are tagged by the user so the meetings can be viewed inside the meeting environment. A MAPI (messaging application programming interface) property on a meeting stored in the communications application can allow querying for tagged meetings. Alternatively, the application can maintain a reference to GUIDs (globally unique IDs) of tagged meetings, as a separate object in a local or server application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1116","1118","1120","1100","1100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1200","1200"]},"As illustrated in , the interface  includes an identification display  that can display a user name, status, contact information, and any other suitable information relevant to the user. A navigation menu of multiple communications environments is accessed by navigational tabs, including a phone environment selector , a people & groups environment selector , a meetings environment selector , and a conversations environment selector , the latter of which being the selected selector in this example. Other fields display information relevant to conversations, and the information in these fields varies in the event that another selector is selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1212","1214","1216","1214","1216","1214","1216","1214","1216"]},"The selection pane  illustrated in  can optionally include a persistent conversations list (not shown) that allows access to ongoing conversations. Persistent conversations can be held in active chat rooms created by users around topics or groups of users. These conversations can be stored on a network server to be accessed by any user at any desired time. A search feature (not shown) can be enabled to allow users to search across all types of conversations, and searching for keywords or embedded metadata tags.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1218","1218"]},"As described hereinabove, the subject embodiments provide a single application for accessing multiple communications environments, and multiple types of communications formats within a particular environment. The subject embodiments enable a user to quickly look to observe and navigate active communications and communications history items. Selecting items on lists and previewing items enables quick and convenient navigation and management, enabling users to leverage all available communications information in a single application.","Recovery Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["100","100","100","600"]},"In various embodiments, the communications application  of the system  may be further augmented to include various components of a recovery architecture for the system . As shown in the illustrated embodiment of , for example, the communications application  may further include a recovery component  arranged to store recovery information . The recovery component  may be generally arranged for recovering one or more communications items, such as active communications items , for example. Active communications items  may include without limitation meetings  or conversation threads  managed by respective meeting component  and conversation component  during a communication session. In various embodiments, a meeting  or a conversation thread  engaged in an active communication session may be sometimes referred to as \u201cactive meeting \u201d or \u201cactive conversation thread .\u201d","A communications session is a semi-permanent interactive information interchange, also known as a dialogue, a conversation or a meeting, between two or more communicating devices. A communication session is set up or established at a certain point in time (e.g., a session start time) and torn down at a later point in time (e.g., a session end time). An established communication session may involve more than one message in each direction. A communications session may include stateful communications, meaning that at least one of the communicating parts needs to save information about the session history in order to be able to communicate. A communications session may also include stateless communication, where the communication comprises independent requests with responses.","In one embodiment, for example, a communications session may be implemented as part of protocols or services at an application layer, session layer or transport layer of the open systems interconnection (OSI) model. An application layer example may include a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) session. A session layer example may include a session initiation protocol (SIP) based Internet phone call session. A transport layer example may include a transmission control protocol (TCP) session, such as a TCP virtual circuit, a TCP connection or a TCP socket. These are merely a few examples, and an active communications item  may use other types of communication sessions as desired for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.","In one embodiment, for example, a communications session may be considered an \u201cactive communications session\u201d when there is a defined session start time and a defined session end time has not been reached. An \u201cinactive communications session\u201d may refer to a communications session where there is a defined session start time and a defined session end time has been reached. Determination of whether a defined session start time has occurred may be based on control signaling for completing setup of one or more communications channels for a communications session, such as control signals to request a meeting  or conversation thread  by one party, and acknowledgement accepting the request by at least one other party. Determination of whether a defined session end time has been reached may be based on an explicit termination of a communications session, such as receipt of a control signaling for completing teardown of one or more communications channels for a communications session in response to user control directive terminating the communication session, for example. In this case, receipt of a user control directive and subsequent tear down of communications channels for the communications session may be considered a defined session end time. Additionally or alternatively, determination of whether a defined session end time has been reached may be based on an implicit termination of a communications session, such as expiration of a timeout period after a last message sent by a client device for any of the parties participating in the communications session, for example. In this case, expiration of the timeout period and subsequent tear down of communications channels for the communications session may be considered a defined session end time.","Once the meeting component  and\/or the conversation component  of the system  initiates an active communication item  during a communication session between two or more parties, the recovery component  monitors the active communication item  and associated communication session to detect a recovery event. A recovery event may generally comprise any event that causes termination of a communications session before a defined session end time. In some cases, a recovery event is an error case that prematurely or unexpectedly disrupts, disconnects, interrupts or otherwise terminates a communication session before normal completion. In one embodiment, for example, a recovery event may comprise any event that causes a communication session for an active communication item  to terminate before a defined session end time. Examples of recovery events may include interruptions caused by network disconnect, network failure, device failure, component failure, hardware failure, software failure, communications stack failure, radio failure, radio channel failure, signal interference (e.g., drop in signal-to-noise ratio), power conservation measures, power failure, user error (e.g., accidental depressing end call button), third party error (e.g., severed lines), undocking event, rebooting event, timeout event, disconnect event, and any other events and errors that unexpectedly interrupts a communication session. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.","Upon detection of a recovery event, the recover component  may utilize recovery information  associated with the interrupted communications session to automatically restart, reestablish, restore or otherwise recover the communications session. The recovered communications session may include identical or similar characteristics as the interrupted communications session, including without limitation the same or similar participants, device parameters, communications parameters, security parameters, privacy parameters, meeting content, communications history, messages, and so forth. In some cases, a communications session before a recovery event may be referred to as a \u201ccommunications session\u201d or \u201cfirst communications session\u201d while a communications session after a recovery event may be referred to as a \u201crecovered communications session\u201d or \u201csecond communications session.\u201d However, such terminology is meant interchangeably and designed to convey a concept that communications sessions before and after a recovery event are similar or identical communications sessions. In other words, communications sessions before and after a recovery event are different versions of a same communications session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1402","1302","100","1402","1304","600","106","110","1402","1304","1404","1406","1408","1410","1304"]},"In one embodiment, the store component  may store recovery information  utilizing a session identifier . The session identifier  may comprise a globally unique identifier (GUID) that uniquely identifies one or more communications session of an active communications item  and associated set of recovery information . The session identifier  may be assigned by a client device or a server device, and is typically assigned at a session start time for a communications session. The store component  may use the session identifier  to create or locate an associated set of recovery information  from a file system. The store component  may then add, delete, or modify information stored by a file with the set of recovery information . For instance, sometime after a communications session for an active communications system  is first established, a session identifier  is created and assigned to the communications session and\/or the active communications item . Once assigned, the store component  may use the session identifier  to store recovery information  for the active communications item . The store component  may store recovery information  at different time intervals according to a schedule on a periodic, aperiodic or continuous basis, as desired for a given implementation.","The store component  may store recovery information  comprising session information . Session information  may include any control and signaling information for establishing (e.g., set up information), managing and terminating (e.g., tear down information) a communications session. Examples of session information  may include without limitation application parameters, hardware parameters, software parameters, device parameters, network parameters, communications parameters, protocol information, state information, configuration information, security information, privacy information, and so forth.","The store component  may store recovery information  comprising content information . Content information  may include any multimedia content intended for human consumption and communicated during a communication session. Examples of content information  may include without limitation text information, voice information, video information, audio information, image information, animation information, application programs, application program files, meeting content, shared documents, whiteboards, web sites, web services, web applications, chat information, messaging information, and so forth.","The store component  may store recovery information  comprising other information . Recovery information  may further include other useful types of information, such as user profile information, metadata associated with a set of recovery information , financial information, security credentials, permission parameters associated with a set of recovery information, time stamps, storing parameters (e.g., store intervals), defined recovery events, and so forth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1502","1304","1502","1504","1402","1504","1304","1302","1504","1304","1504","600","106","110","1304","1504"]},"The recovery permissions  may define various storage parameters for storing recovery information . For instance, assume a client device such as a smart phone or tablet computer has limited memory and\/or processing capabilities. A user may access permissions component  to define a set of recovery permissions  indicating that recovery information  should be stored on the server datastore  of a server device. This configuration may have a benefit of using greater memory and\/or processing resources as offered by a typical server device, although at a cost of increased bandwidth requirements and latency in transmitting recovery information  over a network between a client device and the server device. Alternatively, a user may access permissions component  to define a set of recovery permissions  indicating that recovery information  should be stored on the client datastore  of a client device. This may be appropriate for client devices having a greater amount of memory and processing resources, such as a notebook or desktop computer. This configuration may have a benefit of decreasing bandwidth requirements and latency at a cost of increased use of local memory and processing resources. Other examples of storage parameters suitable for recovery permissions  may include specific storage locations, conditional storage locations based on a meeting type, conversation thread type, or application type, and so forth.","The recovery permissions  may define various recovery parameters for recovering a communications session using recovery information . Continuing with our previous example, assume a user has a first client device such as a smart phone with limited display capabilities. If a recovery event occurs, the user may define a recovery parameter that only recovers a partial history for a meeting  or conversation thread  that fits within a display area of the smart phone. Further assume the user has a second client device such as a tablet computer with larger display capabilities relative to the smart phone. If a recovery event occurs, the user may define a recovery parameter that recovers a full history for a meeting  or conversation thread  due to the larger display area. Additional examples of other recovery parameters suitable for recovery permissions  may include recovering communications sessions based on priority level (e.g., recover only higher priority calls not lower priority calls), application program (e.g., recover only short messaging service sessions not multimedia messaging service sessions), modality (e.g., recover only voice calls not video calls), participants (e.g., recover history for business associates not personal friends), time of day (e.g., recover full history during business hours and partial history during personal hours), location (e.g., recover full history when at office and partial history when at home), user preferences (e.g., recover partial history initially and additional history amounts based on subsequent requests), and so forth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","1610","106","1610","600","106","1610","106","102","1610","1610","1610","1610","1610","1610","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["1700","1610","110","1610","600","110","1610","110","108","1610","106","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"b":["1800","1806","1800","1802","1804","600","106","110","1804","1808","1810","1811","1808","1810","1811","104","102","1302"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1808","104","600","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1810","104","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1811","104","600","1812","1806","1814","1816"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1818","104","1806","1818","1818","1818","1806","600","1818","1818"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1812","1812","1900","1812","1902","1902","600","1904","1812"]},"Although certain embodiments focus on recovering active communications items , the recovery component  may recover different types of inactive communications items, such as history communications items  and persistent communications items , for example. For instance, when an active communications item  is terminated normally and becomes inactive, it may become a history communications item  or a persistent communications item . The recovery information  for the previously active communications items  may be archived for recovering the history communications item  or the persistent communications item . For example, if a user wanted to restart the history communications item  or the persistent communications item , the recovery information  may be used to establish a new active communications session for the history communications item  or the persistent communications item  to convert one or both into an active communications item . In another example, if a client device is lost, stolen or deactivated, or its file system is lost or corrupted, the client device or a replacement client device may be loaded with the history communications item  or the persistent communications item  via the associated recovery information  to form recovered history communications items  or recovered persistent communications items .","As with ,  may comprise a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture of . While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the one or more methodologies shown herein, for example, in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram, are shown and described as a series of acts, it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts, as some acts may, in accordance therewith, occur in a different order and\/or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram. Moreover, not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2000","600","2000","104","100"]},"The logic flow  may expose functionality for a conversations environment and a meetings environment in a communications application at block . For example, the navigations menu components ,  may expose functionality for a conversations environment and a meetings environment in a communications application .","The logic flow  may display a list of items associated with the conversations environment or the meetings environment at block . For example, the selection pane component  may display a list of active communications items ,  associated with the conversations environment or the meetings environment.","The logic flow  may initiate a first communications session for a specific item from the list of items at block . For example, the communications application  may initiate a first communications session for a specific communications item  from the list of active communications items , .","The logic flow  may detect a recovery event for the first communications session at block . For example, the monitor component  may detect a recovery event for the first communications session for the specific communications item  from the list of active communications items , .","The logic flow  may recover the first communications session in response to the recovery event at block . For example, the recovery component  may recover the first communications session in response to the recovery event to form a recovered active communications item .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2100","600","2100","104","100","2100","600","106","106"]},"The logic flow  may initiate a first communications session for a specific item comprising an active meeting. For example, the communications application  may initiate a first communications session for a specific communications item  comprising an active meeting .","The logic flow  may select an active meeting from the list of items at block . For example, the communications application  may select an active meeting  from the list of active communications items  in response to a user control directive.","The logic flow  may enable a user to join an active meeting at block . For example, the communications application  may initiate a first communications session for the selected active meeting .","The logic flow  may detect a disconnect from the active meeting at block . For example, the monitor component  may detect a recovery event in the form of a disconnect event for the active meeting . A disconnect event may comprise a client device disconnecting from a network used for communicating with another client device or a server device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2200","600","2200","104","100","2100","600","110","402","110","402"]},"The logic flow  may initiate a first communications session for a specific item comprising an active conversation thread . For example, the communications application  may initiate a first communications session for a specific communications item  comprising an active conversation thread .","The logic flow  may select an active conversation thread from the list of items at block . For example, the communications application  may select an active conversation thread  from the list of active communications items  in response to a user control directive.","The logic flow  may enable a user to join an active meeting at block . For example, the communications application  may initiate a first communications session for the selected active conversation thread .","The logic flow  may detect a disconnect from the active conversation thread at block . For example, the monitor component  may detect a recovery event in the form of a disconnect event for the active conversation thread . A disconnect event may comprise a client device disconnecting from a network used for communicating with another client device or a server device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["2300","600","2300","104","100","1302","600","1302","1302"]},"The logic flow  may retrieve recovery information at block . For example, the recovery component  may retrieve recovery information  associated with a specific communications item  from a local datastore, such as the client datastore , in response to the recovery event. Additionally or alternatively, the recovery component  may retrieve recovery information  associated with a specific communications item  from a remote datastore, such as the server datastore , in response to the recovery event.","The logic flow  may initiate a second communications session at block . For example, the recovery component  may initiate a second communications session having one or more communications parameters of the first communication session using recovery information  associated with the specific communications item . Additionally or alternatively, the recovery component  may initiate a second communications session having one or more content items of the first communication session using recovery information  associated with the specific communications item . It may be appreciated that the second communications sessions may represent a partial or full reconstruction of the first communications session to allow ongoing communications between participants until normal termination of the active communications item  has occurred (e.g., a defined session end time).","The recovery component  may attempt to construct the second communications session and restore any content items previously used or communicated prior to the recovery event differently based upon the specific type of active communications item . For instance, when an active communications item  is an active conversation thread  comprising a voice conversation, the recovery component  may only attempt to recover a communications session and not reproduce any previous audio information or voice information transmitted prior to a recovery event. Such reproduction may impair future voice communications once the second communications session has been established. However, when an active communications item  is an active conversation thread  comprising text messages (e.g., chat messages, SMS message, MMS messages, and so forth), the recovery component  may restore both the communications session and previous text messages communicated prior to a recovery event. A type and amount of content information reproduced or rehydrated for a second communications session may vary according to a given type of active communications item  and associated modality (e.g., audio, visual, sensory) as desired for a given implementation. Similarly, a second communications session for an active communications item  for an active meeting  may include previous meeting notes, chat messages, shared documents, whiteboard information, shared applications, and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.","The logic flow  may present a notification indicating the specific item has been restored at block . For example, the notification component  may present a notification indicating the specific communications item  has been restored to form a recovered communications item .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"b":["2400","2400"]},"The computing system  for implementing various aspects includes the computer  having processing unit(s) , a system memory , and a system bus . The processing unit(s)  can be any of various commercially available processors such as single-processor, multi-processor, single-core units and multi-core units. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the novel methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations, including minicomputers, mainframe computers, as well as personal computers (e.g., desktop, laptop, etc.), hand-held computing devices, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, and the like, each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.","The system memory  can include volatile (VOL) memory  (e.g., random access memory (RAM)) and non-volatile memory (NON-VOL)  (e.g., ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, etc.). A basic input\/output system (BIOS) can be stored in the non-volatile memory , and includes the basic routines that facilitate the communication of data and signals between components within the computer , such as during startup. The volatile memory  can also include a high-speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.","The system bus  provides an interface for system components including, but not limited to, the memory subsystem  to the processing unit(s) . The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus (with or without a memory controller), and a peripheral bus (e.g., PCI, PCIe, AGP, LPC, etc.), using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures.","The computer  further includes storage subsystem(s)  and storage interface(s)  for interfacing the storage subsystem(s)  to the system bus  and other desired computer components. The storage subsystem(s)  can include one or more of a hard disk drive (HDD), a magnetic floppy disk drive (FDD), and\/or optical disk storage drive (e.g., a CD-ROM drive DVD drive), for example. The storage interface(s)  can include interface technologies such as EIDE, ATA, SATA, and IEEE 2494, for example.","One or more programs and data can be stored in the memory subsystem , a removable memory subsystem  (e.g., flash drive form factor technology), and\/or the storage subsystem(s) , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data . Generally, programs include routines, methods, data structures, other software components, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. All or portions of the operating system , applications , modules , and\/or data  can also be cached in memory such as the volatile memory , for example. It is to be appreciated that the disclosed architecture can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems (e.g., as virtual machines).","The aforementioned application programs , program modules , and program data  can include the computer-implemented communications system , the meeting component , the communications application , the multiple meetings , the conversation component , and the multiple conversation threads  of , the aspects , the meeting schedule component , the list  of scheduled meetings, the ad hoc collaboration component , the ad hoc meeting , and the search component  of , the content management component , the pre-meeting content , and the post-meeting content  of , the conversation threads , the active conversation threads , the past conversation threads , and the persistent conversation threads  of .","The aforementioned application programs , program modules , and program data  can also include the computer-implemented system , the navigation menu component , the multiple communications components , the communications items , the conversation component , the meeting component , the selection pane component , the preview pane component , the specific communications item , and the notification component , of , the list of active communications items , the list of history communications items , and the list of persistent communications items  of .","The aforementioned application programs , program modules , and program data  can further include the user interface , the identification display , the phone selector , the people & groups selector , the meetings selector , the conversations selector , the calendar information , the meeting information field , the join meeting button , the new meeting button , and the conference now button  of , the user interface , the identification display , the phone environment selector , the people & groups environment selector , the meetings environment selector , the conversations environment selector , the selection pane , the active conversations list , the conversation history list , and the preview pane  of , and the methods of , for example.","The aforementioned application programs , program modules , and program data  can include the computer-implemented communications system , the recovery component  and recovery information  of , the store component , session identifier , the session information , the content information , and other information  of , the permissions component , the recovery permissions , and database programs to manage the client datastore  and server datastore  of , and the monitor component  of , .","The aforementioned application programs , program modules , and program data  can also include the computer-implemented system , the navigation menu component , the multiple communications components , the recovered communications items , the conversation component , the meeting component , the selection pane component , the preview pane component , the specific recovered communications item , and the notification component , of , the list of active recovered communications items , the list of history recovered communications items , and the list of recovered persistent communications items  of , and the methods of , for example.","The storage subsystem(s)  and memory subsystems ( and ) serve as computer readable media for volatile and non-volatile storage of data, data structures, computer-executable instructions, and so forth. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer  and includes volatile and non-volatile media, removable and non-removable media. For the computer , the media accommodate the storage of data in any suitable digital format. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media can be employed such as zip drives, magnetic tape, flash memory cards, cartridges, and the like, for storing computer executable instructions for performing the novel methods of the disclosed architecture.","A user can interact with the computer , programs, and data using external user input devices  such as a keyboard and a mouse. Other external user input devices  can include a microphone, an IR (infrared) remote control, a joystick, a game pad, camera recognition systems, a stylus pen, touch screen, gesture systems (e.g., eye movement, head movement, etc.), and\/or the like. The user can interact with the computer , programs, and data using onboard user input devices  such a touchpad, microphone, keyboard, etc., where the computer  is a portable computer, for example. These and other input devices are connected to the processing unit(s)  through input\/output (I\/O) device interface(s)  via the system bus , but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port, IEEE 2494 serial port, a game port, a USB port, an IR interface, etc. The I\/O device interface(s)  also facilitate the use of output peripherals  such as printers, audio devices, camera devices, and so on, such as a sound card and\/or onboard audio processing capability.","One or more graphics interface(s)  (also commonly referred to as a graphics processing unit (GPU)) provide graphics and video signals between the computer  and external display(s)  (e.g., LCD, plasma) and\/or onboard displays  (e.g., for portable computer). The graphics interface(s)  can also be manufactured as part of the computer system board.","The computer  can operate in a networked environment (e.g., IP) using logical connections via a wire\/wireless communications subsystem  to one or more networks and\/or other computers. The other computers can include workstations, servers, routers, personal computers, microprocessor-based entertainment appliance, a peer device or other common network node, and typically include many or all of the elements described relative to the computer . The logical connections can include wire\/wireless connectivity to a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), hotspot, and so on. LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise-wide computer networks, such as intranets, all of which may connect to a global communications network such as the Internet.","When used in a networking environment the computer  connects to the network via a wire\/wireless communication subsystem  (e.g., a network interface adapter, onboard transceiver subsystem, etc.) to communicate with wire\/wireless networks, wire\/wireless printers, wire\/wireless input devices , and so on. The computer  can include a modem or has other means for establishing communications over the network. In a networked environment, programs and data relative to the computer  can be stored in the remote memory\/storage device, as is associated with a distributed system. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.","The computer  is operable to communicate with wire\/wireless devices or entities using the radio technologies such as the IEEE 802.xx family of standards, such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication (e.g., IEEE 802.11 over-the-air modulation techniques) with, for example, a printer, scanner, desktop and\/or portable computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), communications satellite, any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag (e.g., a kiosk, news stand, restroom), and telephone. This includes at least Wi-Fi (or Wireless Fidelity) for hotspots, WiMax, and Bluetooth\u2122 wireless technologies. Thus, the communications can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi-Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x (a, b, g, etc.) to provide secure, reliable, fast wireless connectivity. A Wi-Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other, to the Internet, and to wire networks (which use IEEE 802.3-related media and functions).","The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules can be located in local and\/or remote storage and\/or memory system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2500","2500","2502","2502","2502"]},"The environment  also includes one or more server(s) . The server(s)  can also be hardware and\/or software (e.g., threads, processes, computing devices). The servers  can house threads to perform transformations by employing the architecture, for example. One possible communication between a client  and a server  can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and\/or associated contextual information, for example. The environment  includes a communication framework  (e.g., a global communication network such as the Internet) that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client(s)  and the server(s) .","Communications can be facilitated via a wire (including optical fiber) and\/or wireless technology. The client(s)  are operatively connected to one or more client data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the client(s)  (e.g., cookie(s) and\/or associated contextual information). Similarly, the server(s)  are operatively connected to one or more server data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the servers .","While certain ways of displaying information to users are shown and described with respect to certain figures as screenshots, those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that various other alternatives can be employed. The terms \u201cscreen,\u201d \u201cscreenshot\u201d, \u201cwebpage,\u201d \u201cdocument\u201d, and \u201cpage\u201d are generally used interchangeably herein. The pages or screens are stored and\/or transmitted as display descriptions, as graphical user interfaces, or by other methods of depicting information on a screen (whether personal computer, PDA, mobile telephone, or other suitable device, for example) where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in memory, database, or another storage facility.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component can be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, a hard disk drive, multiple storage drives (of optical and\/or magnetic storage medium), an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution, and a component can be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers. The word \u201cexemplary\u201d may be used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.","What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and\/or methodologies, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly, the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the detailed description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 25"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
