---
title: Calendar-based suggestion of a travel option
abstract: Calendar-based suggestion of travel options involves suggesting a travel option based on events stored in a calendar of a user. For example, a user in San Francisco may be scheduled for a business trip to New York, and the user's calendar may show a dinner reservation in San Francisco on Saturday, September 3 and business meeting in New York on Monday, September 5. A suggestion machine accesses calendar data of the user and travel data for several available travel options (e.g., flights from San Francisco to New York). Based on the accessed calendar data and travel data, the suggestion machine determines that one or more travel options (e.g., a flight on Sunday, September 4) are compatible with the dinner reservation and the business meeting on the user's calendar. The suggestion machine presents these compatible travel options to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606801&OS=08606801&RS=08606801
owner: Hipmunk, Inc.
number: 08606801
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110816
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to the processing of data. Specifically, the present disclosure addresses systems and methods to facilitate calendar-based suggestion of a travel option.","An online service may allow a user of the online service to view multiple options for travel plans and make a selection from among the multiple options. For example, an airline may operate a webpage that provides an online reservation service from which a user may search for available flights (e.g., from San Francisco to New York) on a particular day and then select one of the available flights for reserving a seat thereon. As another example, a hotel may operate a webpage that provides an online reservation service from which the user may search for available hotel properties and room types (e.g., in New York) for a particular period of time (e.g., September 5 through September 9) and then select one of the available room types at an available hotel property for reserving. As a further example, a restaurant may offer a webpage that provides an online reservation service from which the user may search for available table reservations (e.g., at a popular restaurant) within a particular range of times (e.g., 5:30 PM to 7:30 PM) on a particular date and then select one of the available table reservations for reserving.","Example methods and systems are directed to calendar-based suggestion of one or more travel options. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided, and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art, however, that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.","Calendar-based suggestion of a travel option involves suggesting a travel option based on events stored in a calendar of a user. For example, a user in San Francisco may be scheduled for a business trip to New York, and the user's calendar may show a dinner reservation in San Francisco on Saturday, September 3 and business meeting in New York on Monday, September 5. A suggestion machine is configured to access calendar data of the user and travel data for several available travel options (e.g., flights from San Francisco to New York). Based on the accessed calendar data and travel data, the suggestion machine is configured to determine that one or more particular travel options (e.g., a flight on Sunday, September 4) are compatible with the dinner reservation and the business meeting on the user's calendar. The suggestion machine is further configured to present these compatible particular travel options to the user (e.g., as suggestions for making a selection of a flight, or as a reminder to select a flight).","As used herein, a \u201ctravel option\u201d is an option (e.g., choice, offering, alternative, menu item, or special deal) of potential interest to a traveler (e.g., as a user of an online service) in making or executing a travel plan (e.g., an itinerary). A travel option may be a \u201ctransportation option\u201d pertinent to a transportation service or a vehicle. Examples of transportation options include travel by airplane, train, bus, trolley, ferry, ship, taxicab, rental car, car sharing service, or any suitable combination thereof. Transportation options may include transportation services (e.g., passenger service) provided by commercial carriers (e.g., airlines, car rental companies, or cruise operators), public transportation (e.g., city buses or regional trains), private operators (e.g., limousine services, charter airplanes, or charter helicopters), or any combination thereof. In some example embodiments, the transportation option specifies that the traveler walk, jog, hike, or ride a bicycle to a particular destination. A travel option may be an \u201caccommodation option\u201d pertinent to an accommodation (e.g., hospitality) service. Examples of accommodation options include stays in a hotel, motel, resort, hostel, bed-and-breakfast inn, boarding house, vacation rental, home sharing service, campground, or any suitable combination thereof. Further examples of accommodation options include reservations at a restaurant, conference facility, health facility (e.g., spa, salon, or massage studio), athletic facility (e.g., gym, pool, or fitness center), or entertainment venue (e.g., theater, sports stadium, amusement park, or museum). In some situations, a travel option may be both a transportation option and an accommodation option (e.g., a compartment in a passenger train, a cabin on a cruise ship, or a bed on an overnight airline flight). A further example of a travel option is trip insurance (e.g., an insurance policy for a set of transportation options, accommodation options, or both).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 10"],"b":["100","100","110","120","130","140","150","190","110","120","110","130","110","120","130","110"]},"The calendar server  functions as a data repository that stores calendar data of one or more users. In some example embodiments, the calendar server  is operated by a third-party calendar service (e.g., Google or Yahoo). The travel server  functions as a data repository that stores travel data describing one or more travel options. In certain example embodiments, the travel server  is operated by a third-party travel service (e.g., a travel agency, an airline, or a hotel management company).","Also shown in  are users  and . One or both of the users  and  may be a human user (e.g., a human being), a machine user (e.g., a software program configured to interact with the user device ), or any suitable combination thereof (e.g., a human assisted by a machine or a machine supervised by human). The user  is not part of the network environment , but is associated with the user device  and may be a user of the user device . For example, the user device  may be a deskside computer, a tablet computer, or a smart phone belonging to the user . Similarly, the user  is not part of the network environment , but is associated with the user device . As an example, the user device  may be a tablet computer belonging to the user .","Any of the machines, databases, or devices shown in  may be implemented in a general-purpose computer modified (e.g., configured or programmed) by software to be a special-purpose computer to perform the functions described herein for that machine. For example, a computer system able to implement any one or more of the methodologies described herein is discussed below with respect to . As used herein, a \u201cdatabase\u201d is a data storage resource and may store data structured as a text file, a table, a spreadsheet, a relational database, a triple store, a key-value store, or any suitable combination thereof. Moreover, any two or more of the machines illustrated in  may be combined into a single machine, and the functions described herein for any single machine may be subdivided among multiple machines.","The network  may be any network that enables communication between machines (e.g., suggestion machine  and the user device ). Accordingly, the network  may be a wired network, a wireless network (e.g., a mobile network), or any suitable combination thereof. The network  may include one or more portions that constitute a private network, a public network (e.g., the Internet), or any suitable combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["110","110","210","220","230","240","250","260"]},"The access module  is configured to access calendar data of a user (e.g., a traveler, a potential traveler, a consumer of travel options, or a potential consumer of travel options). The access module  may access the calendar data from the calendar server . In some example embodiments, the suggestion machine  stores the calendar data, and the access module  accesses the calendar data from the suggestion machine . The calendar data includes information describing one or more events in the calendar of the user (e.g., scheduled for the user). Accordingly, the calendar data indicates a period of time (e.g., first period of time) during which the user is scheduled to participate in (e.g., attend) an event. For example, the calendar data may indicate that the user  is scheduled to attend a business meeting in New York on Monday, September 5, from 10 AM to 12 PM Eastern Time.","The access module  is further configured to access travel data. The access module  may access the travel data from the travel server . In some example embodiments, the suggestion machine  stores the travel data, and the access module  accesses the travel data from the suggestion machine . The travel data includes information describing one or more travel options available for selection by the user (e.g., transportation options or accommodation options). Accordingly, the travel data indicates a period of time (e.g., a second period of time) during which a travel option (e.g., among multiple travel options) is scheduled to occur. For example, the travel data may indicate that a transportation option (e.g., an airline flight) is scheduled to leave San Francisco at 10:30 PM Pacific Time and arrive in New York City at 7 AM Eastern Time the following day.","According to some example embodiments, the access module  is also configured to access additional data. The additional data may include weather data (e.g., information on storms or delays due to weather), traffic data (e.g., information on delays or closures due to accidents, road construction, or heavy traffic), passenger screening data (e.g., information on average wait time, delays, or inconveniences due to security screening of passengers), user preferences (e.g., user-submitted information or information observed from a user's behavior in one or more membership organizations, subscriptions, or websites), or any suitable combination thereof. Further examples of additional data include government notices (e.g., warnings of risks for bad weather, natural disasters, war, riots, crime, or terrorism issued by a government agency or official). The user preferences may include information (e.g., submitted by the user or observed from the user's behavior) on desired or undesired carriers, hotels, services, amenities, costs, numbers of stops, locations of stops, preparation time for meetings, or layover durations. Examples of the additional data may take the form of historical data (e.g., heavy traffic on Thanksgiving weekend for the past 10 years), real-time data (e.g., an accident report), forecast data (e.g., weather forecasts predicting thunderstorms that would delay flights, or economic forecasts predicting a high chance of revolution in a country), or any suitable combination thereof. The access module  may access the additional data from the suggestion machine , the calendar server , the travel server , one or more additional servers connected to the network  (e.g., operated by one or more third parties), or any suitable combination thereof. For example, the additional data may indicate that the period of time (e.g., the second period of time) scheduled for the travel option is likely to be lengthened by 60 minutes due to a combination of delays stemming from bad weather, bad traffic, and large crowds going through airport security in San Francisco (e.g., as predicted from historical data, real-time data, forecast data, or any suitable combination thereof). As another example, the additional data may indicate that the user  prefers nonstop flights costing under $500 and that layovers be longer than 30 minutes but no longer than 90 minutes.","The analysis module  is configured to analyze the calendar data and the travel data (e.g., accessed by the access module ) and determine a set of one or more travel options that are compatible with the one or more events described in the calendar data. The analysis module  may make the determination that a travel option is compatible with an event of the user  based on the period of time (e.g., the first period of time) for the event, on the period of time (e.g., the second period of time) for the travel option, or on both. For example, the analysis module  may determine that the airline flight scheduled to leave San Francisco at 10:30 PM Pacific Time and arrive in New York City at 7 AM Eastern Time the following day is compatible with the business meeting in New York on Monday, September 5, from 10 AM to 12 PM Eastern Time.","The suggestion module  is configured to present one or more travel options determined (e.g., by the analysis module ) as being compatible with one or more events of the user . For example, the suggestion module  may present the airline flight scheduled to leave San Francisco at 10:30 PM Pacific Time and arrive in New York City at 7 AM Eastern Time the following day as being compatible with the business meeting in New York on Monday, September 5, from 10 AM to 12 PM Eastern Time. According to various example embodiments, the suggestion module  presents the travel option to the user  (e.g., via the user device ), to a friend of the user  (e.g., to the user  via the user device ), to an assistant of the user  (e.g., to the user  by the user device ), to another participant in the event of the user  (e.g., to the user  by the user device ), or any suitable combination thereof. The suggestion module  may present the travel option by displaying or causing the display of a webpage (e.g., of a travel option search service), a notification (e.g., a pop up window), a message (e.g., an email message, instant message, or a text message), or any suitable combination thereof. In some example embodiments, the suggestion module  presents the travel option in a communication directed at the user , in a communication addressed to the user device , or both. Such a communication may present the travel option among multiple travel options (e.g., for consideration by the user ).","The buffer module  is configured to determine a threshold period of time for comparison to a period of time (e.g., a third period of time) by which the period of time for the event (e.g., the first period of time) is separated from the period of time for a travel option (e.g., the second period of time). For example, the threshold period of time may be a minimum period of time (e.g., a minimum buffer time) or a maximum period of time (e.g., a maximum buffer time). Accordingly, the threshold period of time may represent a minimum or maximum buffer time between the event and the travel option. As used herein, a \u201cbuffer time\u201d is a period of time between the period of time for an event and the period of time for a travel option, between the periods of time for two travel options, between the periods of time for two events, or between a period of time between two portions of a single travel option (e.g., a layover between two legs of a journey). For example, an airline flight that arrives in New York City at 7 AM Eastern Time the following day may arrive three hours prior to a business meeting scheduled in New York City on that day at 10 AM Eastern Time. Compared to a minimum buffer time of two hours, such a three-hour buffer time is compatible with this minimum buffer time. The buffer module  is also configured to determine that the period of time (e.g., the third period of time) by which the period of time for the event (e.g., the first period of time) is separated from the period of time for the travel option (e.g., the second period of time) transgresses the threshold period of time (e.g., the minimum or maximum period of time). For example, the buffer module  may determine that the buffer time exceeds a maximum buffer time or falls below a minimum buffer time. The analysis module  may determine that the travel option is compatible with the event based on this determination by the buffer module . According to various example embodiments, the buffer module  may determine the threshold period of time based on a location of the event (e.g., as indicated by the calendar data accessed by the access module ), on the additional data (e.g., accessed by the access module ), or any suitable combination thereof.","The cost module  is configured to determine that a travel option is less expensive (e.g., monetarily) than another travel option (e.g., a further travel option) among multiple travel options (e.g., as indicated by the travel data accessed by the access module ). In some example embodiments, the cost module  is configured to determine that the travel option has a fewer number of stops than another travel option (e.g., the further travel option) among the multiple travel options. In this manner, the cost module  may rank any number of travel options by monetary expense (e.g., price), number of stops, or any suitable combination thereof (e.g., an \u201cagony\u201d score calculated from price, number of stops, total duration of a transportation option, etc.).","The sort module  is configured to generate a presentation of one or more travel options for presentation by the suggestion module . The sort module  may generate the presentation based on one or more determinations performed by the cost module  (e.g., one or more ranked travel options). According to various example embodiments, the sort module  generates the presentation based on the calendar data (e.g., a list of attendees for an event), the travel data (e.g., a list of amenities at an accommodation near the event), or any suitable combination thereof. For example, if the calendar data indicates that the user  is attending an event with his two children, the sort module  may elevate or otherwise visually highlight a stay at kid-friendly hotel with free video games and a highly rated swimming pool. As another example, if the calendar data indicates that the user  is attending an event with wealthy business clients, the sort module  may elevate or otherwise visually highlight a stay at a high-end luxury hotel with sophisticated conference facilities. As a further example, if the calendar data indicates that the user  is attending an event with his wife near their wedding anniversary date, the sort module  may elevate or otherwise visually highlight a stay at a romantic bed-and-breakfast inn near the event.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","210","300","310","330","340","350","300","142","300","142","152"]},"The event data  includes a name  of an event (e.g., a title), a creator  of the event (e.g., the user  or an assistant thereof), a subject  of the event (e.g., a description or note), and a location  of the event (e.g., room number, floor number, venue name, address, city, state, country, cross streets, or global positioning system (GPS) coordinates). The event data  also includes a period of time  for the event. The period of time  includes a start time  (e.g., 10 AM), an end time  (e.g., 12 PM), a duration  (e.g., two hours), and a time zone  (e.g., Eastern Time). In some example embodiments, the period of time  includes multiple time zones (e.g., time zone ). According to various example embodiments, the event data  includes a nonphysical flag  (e.g., indicating that the event is a virtual or online event), an accepted flag  (e.g., indicating that the event has been accepted into the calendar of the user ), a tentative flag  (e.g., indicating that the event is tentatively scheduled for the user ), and a busy\/available flag  (e.g., indicating whether the user  is busy or available for additional events during the period of time ). Moreover, in some example embodiments, the event data  includes information on one or more additional attendees. As shown, the event data  includes an \u201cother\u201d attendee  of the event (e.g., a name of another attendee) and a status  of the other attendee (e.g., whether the other attendee  is scheduled to attend the event). In various example embodiments, the other attendee  is a friend, family member, coworker, colleague, or a client of the user  (e.g., user ). In certain example embodiments, multiple \u201cother\u201d attendees are specified in the event data . Each of the event data , , and  may include information similar to that described for the event data .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","400","410","420"]},"The transportation data  includes information describing one or more transportation options. As shown, transportation option data  describes a transportation option (e.g., an airline flight). For example, the transportation option data  may include flight information referencing an airline flight, schedule information for a transportation service that corresponds to a particular vehicle (e.g., bus, trolley, ferry, taxicab, car rental, or ship), or any suitable combination thereof. Similarly, transportation option data , , and  describe additional transportation options. The transportation data  may be limited to transportation options available from a single transportation service (e.g., a single airline). In some example embodiments, the transportation data  includes transportation options available from multiple transportation services (e.g., multiple airlines, operators, car rental companies, and bus operators).","The accommodation data  includes information describing one or more accommodation options. As shown, accommodation option data  describes an accommodation option (e.g., a hotel stay). Similarly, accommodation option data , , and  describe additional accommodation options. The accommodation data  may be limited to accommodation options available from a single accommodation provider (e.g., a single hotel). In some example embodiments, the accommodation data  includes accommodation options available from multiple accommodation providers (e.g., multiple hotels, hotel chains, motels, bed-and-breakfast inns, and campgrounds).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["412","412","414","416","418"]},"The transportation option data  includes an identifier  of a transportation option (e.g., a flight number for an airline flight) and a carrier  for the transportation option (e.g., an airline name). The carrier  may be a name of a transportation service or provider thereof (e.g., Delta Air Lines\u00ae or Carnival Cruises\u00ae). In some example embodiments, the carrier  may be \u201cwalk\u201d or some other indication that selection of this transportation option would schedule the user  to transport himself. The transportation option data  includes a departure location  (e.g., a departure city, airport, train station, bus stop, address, venue, or accommodation). Also included in the transportation option data  is an arrival location  (e.g., an arrival city, airport, train station, bus stop, address, venue, or accommodation). The transportation option data  includes a period of time  for the transportation option. The period of time  includes a start time  (e.g., 10:30 PM), a time zone  for the start time  (e.g., Pacific Time), and end time  (e.g., 7 AM), a time zone  for the end time  (e.g., Eastern Time), a duration  (e.g., five hours and thirty minutes), and layover information  and . The layover information  may describe a scheduled stop within the transportation option. In particular, a layover time may be described in the layover information  (e.g., a thirty minute layover in Atlanta at 6 AM Eastern Time). The layover information  may describe another scheduled stop and its corresponding layover time. Moreover, in some example embodiments, the transportation option data  includes a price  of the transportation option (e.g., $317) and a service level  of the transportation option (e.g., an airline class of service).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["422","422","424","426","428"]},"The accommodation option data  includes a provider  of the accommodation option (e.g., a name of a particular hotel), a location  of the accommodation option (e.g., address, city, state, country, cross streets, or GPS coordinates), an accommodation type  of the accommodation option (e.g., style of room or permissibility of smoking), and a service level  of the accommodation option (e.g., whether any special deals, perks, benefits, or loyalty rewards apply). The accommodation option data  includes a period of time  for the accommodation option. The period of time  includes a start time  (e.g., a check-in date or a check-in time on a date of arrival), an end time  (e.g., a check-out date or a check-out time on a date of departure), a duration  (e.g., five days, four nights), and a time zone  of the accommodation option (e.g., Eastern Time). Moreover, in some example embodiments, the accommodation option data  may include a price  (e.g., a rate per night) and a cost  (e.g., a total cost for the full stay).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 7-9","FIG. 2","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","412","422","700","110","700","710","720","730","740"]},"In operation , the access module  accesses the calendar data  (e.g., from the calendar server ). The calendar data  may be specific to the user . Moreover, the calendar data  may indicate the period of time  (e.g., a first period of time) during which the user  is scheduled to participate in an event (e.g., a business meeting). In some example embodiments, operation  is performed by invoking an application programming interface (API) (e.g., a public API) provided by a third-party calendar service (e.g., Google\u00ae) to access the calendar data . For example, the API may be invoked in response to the user  providing log in credentials (e.g., username and password) to identify or authenticate himself to the suggestion machine , to the calendar server , to the travel server , or any suitable combination thereof. In certain example embodiments, operation  is performed by receiving the calendar data  from the calendar server . As an example, the calendar data  may be received from the calendar server  in response to a request submitted by the user  to the calendar server . As another example, the calendar data  may be received from the calendar server  as part of a data feed (e.g., a periodic or repeating download) arranged or authorized by the user . According to various example embodiments, operation  is performed in response to a query submitted by the user  (e.g., via the user device ). For example, the user  may query the name of a city (e.g., San Francisco or New York City), and the access module  may access the calendar data  in response to the submission of the query (e.g., as detected by the suggestion machine , the calendar server , the travel server , or any suitable combination thereof).","In operation , the access module  accesses travel data  (e.g., from the travel server ). The travel data  may indicate multiple travel options available for selection by the user . Moreover, the travel data  indicates a period of time (e.g., period of time  or period of time ) during which a travel option is scheduled to occur. In some example embodiments, the travel data  may indicate the period of time  (e.g., a second period of time) during which the transportation option that corresponds to the transportation option data  is scheduled to occur. In certain example embodiments, the travel data  may indicate the period of time  (e.g., the second period of time) during which the accommodation option that corresponds to the accommodation option data  is scheduled to occur. According to various example embodiments, operation  is performed in response to a query submitted by the user  (e.g., via the user device ). For example, the user  may query the name of a city (e.g., San Francisco or New York City), and the access module  may access the travel data  in response to the submission of the query (e.g., as detected by the suggestion machine , the calendar server , the travel server , or any suitable combination thereof).","In operation , the analysis module  determines that the travel option is compatible with the event in which the user  is scheduled to participate. This determination may be based on the period of time  (e.g., as indicated by the calendar data ), on the period of time during which the travel option is scheduled to occur (e.g., period of time  or period of time ), or both.","In some example embodiments, the travel option is a transportation option (e.g., among multiple transportation options), and operation  includes determining that no portion of the period of time during which the transportation option is scheduled to occur coincides with any portion of the period of time  during which the user  is the scheduled to participate in the event. In other words, the determination that the travel option is compatible with the event may be based on there being no overlap between the period of time  and the period of time .","In certain example embodiments, the analysis module  determines that the travel option is compatible with the event based on the location  of the event. Moreover, the location  may be indicated as a nonphysical location (e.g., by the nonphysical flag ). For example, the event may be a scheduled phone call, teleconference, or online chat session, and the location  of the event may be indicated as being \u201cvirtual\u201d or \u201conline.\u201d Since the user  may be able to participate in an event at a nonphysical location while using a particular travel option, the analysis module  may determine that the particular travel option is compatible with such an event, despite the period of time  for the event coinciding, at least in part, with the period of time corresponding to the particular travel option (e.g., period of time  or period of time ). This determination may be based on the location of the event being nonphysical (e.g., as indicated by the nonphysical flag ). For example, the user  may participate in a scheduled phone call while traveling on a train.","In various example embodiments, the analysis module  determines that the travel option is compatible with the event based on a layover time (e.g., a third period of time) encompassing the period of time  for an event (e.g., a first period of time). For example, if an event (e.g., a phone call) is a nonphysical event (e.g., as indicated by the nonphysical flag ) scheduled to occur during the layover time (e.g., between airline flights), the user  may be able to participate in the event while using the travel option. Accordingly, the analysis module  may determine that the travel option is compatible with the event based on the layover time, the nonphysical flag , or both.","In operation , the suggestion module  presents the travel option that is determined to be compatible with the event. For example, the suggestion module  may present the travel option as a suggestion, as a reminder, or both. Moreover, the suggestion module  may present the travel option to the user  (e.g., via the user device ). According to some example embodiments, the suggestion module  presents the travel option to the user  (e.g., via the user device ), where the user  may be related to the user  (e.g., an assistant, friend, family member, colleague, client, or a fellow event attendee). The travel option may be presented by displaying or causing the display of a webpage (e.g., of a travel option search service), a notification (e.g., a pop up window), a message (e.g., an email message, instant message, or a text message). Further details of the method  are discussed below with respect to .","As shown in , various example embodiments of the method  may include one or more of operations , , , , , , , , , , , and . One or both of operations  and  may be performed as part (e.g., a precursor task, a subroutine, or a portion) of operation . Similarly, one or more of operations - may be performed as part of operation .","In operation , the access module  accesses the transportation data , which is described above with respect to . For example, the access module  may access the transportation data  from the travel server . In operation , the access module  accesses the accommodation data , which is also described above with respect to . As an example, the access module  may access the accommodation data  from the travel server .","In operation , the access module  accesses additional data (e.g., as described above with respect to ). According to various example embodiments, the additional data may include weather data (e.g., information on storms or delays due to weather), traffic data (e.g., information on accidents or delays due to traffic), passenger screening data (e.g., information on average wait time, delays, or problems due to security screening of passengers), user preferences (e.g., information submitted by, or observed from the behavior of, the user ), government notices (e.g., warnings), or any suitable combination thereof. In example embodiments that include operation , the analysis module  may perform operation  based on at least some of the additional data.","In operation , the buffer module  determines a threshold period of time (e.g., as described above with respect to ). The threshold period of time may be determined based on the data accessed by the access module  (e.g., the additional data discussed above with respect to operation ). For example, the buffer module  may determine the threshold period of time based on the location  of an event (e.g., as stored in the calendar data ). As another example, the threshold period of time may be determined based on the additional data accessed in operation .","In operation , the analysis module  determines (e.g., as part of operation ) that a buffer time transgresses a threshold period of time (e.g., as determined in operation ). In some example embodiments, the analysis module  determines that the period of time  for an event (e.g., a first period of time) is separated from the period of time  for a transportation option (e.g., a second period of time) by a buffer time. In certain example embodiments, the analysis module  determines that the period of time  for the event is separated from the period of time  for an accommodation option (e.g., the second period of time) by the buffer time. Having determined the buffer time, the analysis module  may determine that the buffer time transgresses the threshold period of time determined in operation . This may have the effect of determining that a travel option is compatible with an event on the basis of the buffer time being greater than a minimum buffer time, less than a maximum buffer time, or any suitable combination thereof.","In operation , the analysis module  determines that the period of time  for an event (e.g., the first period of time) falls within the period of time  for an accommodation option (e.g., the second period of time), according to some example embodiments. This may have the effect of determining that an event (e.g., a physical event) is scheduled to start and ended during an accommodation option. For example, a vacation to Hawaii may be indicated as a physical event (e.g., by absence of the nonphysical flag ), and the analysis module  may determine that an accommodation option (e.g., a hotel stay) is compatible with the vacation, based on the period of time for the vacation (e.g., period of time ) falling within a period of time for the accommodation option (e.g., period of time ). In certain example embodiments, the analysis module  determines that the period of time  falls within the period of time  for a transportation option (e.g., the second period of time). This may have the effect of determining that an event (e.g., a nonphysical event) is scheduled to start and end during a transportation option. As an example, a scheduled teleconference may be indicated as a nonphysical event (e.g., by the nonphysical flag ), and the analysis module  may determine that a transportation option (e.g., a train ride) is compatible with the scheduled teleconference, based on the period of time for the teleconference (e.g., period of time ) falling within a period of time for the transportation option (e.g., period of time ).","According to various example embodiments, the calendar data  includes locations (e.g., location ) of multiple events (e.g., event data , , , and ). For example, the user  may be scheduled to attend multiple business meetings during a single business trip. The calendar data  may indicate a sequence of multiple events (e.g., including the event corresponding to the event data ). Moreover, the sequence of multiple events may include an initial (e.g., first) event at an initial (e.g., first) location, as well as a final (e.g., last) event at a final (e.g., last) location. By performing one or more of operations , , , , , and , the analysis module  may base the determination performed in operation  on one or more locations of these events, a location corresponding to a particular travel option, or any suitable combination thereof. In some example embodiments, the analysis module  may base the determination performed in operation  on one or more distances (e.g., calculated, received, accessed, or looked up from a table) from the location corresponding to a particular travel option.","In operation , the analysis module  calculates a centroid of multiple event locations (e.g., location ) and determines that the centroid is within a threshold distance of a location for a transportation option (e.g., an airline flight). For example, the analysis module  may determine that the centroid is within a threshold distance of the departure location , the arrival location , or both. This may have the effect of determining that the transportation option is conveniently located with respect to the multiple event locations. In some example embodiments, a particular event location is used for more than one event among multiple events, and the calculation of the centroid may accord greater weight to this particular event location.","In operation , the analysis module  calculates a centroid of multiple event locations (e.g., location ) and determines that a centroid is within a threshold distance of a location for an accommodation option (e.g., a hotel stay). For example, the analysis module  may determine that the centroid is within a threshold distance of the location  (e.g., of a hotel). This may have the effect of determining that the accommodation option is conveniently located with respect to the multiple event locations.","In operation , the analysis module  determines that the arrival location  of a transportation option is within a threshold distance of an initial location (e.g., location ) among multiple event locations. This may have the effect of determining that the transportation option provides the user  with convenient access to the initial event after using the transportation option.","In operation , the analysis module  determines that the departure location  of a transportation option is within a threshold distance of a final location (e.g., location ) among multiple event locations. This may have the effect of determining that the transportation option provides the user  with convenient access to the transportation option after the final event in a sequence of multiple events.","In operation , the analysis module  determines that an initial location (e.g., location ) among multiple event locations is within a threshold distance of the location  of an accommodation option. This may have the effect of determining that the accommodation option provides the user  with convenient access to the initial event from the accommodation option.","In operation , the analysis module  determines that a final location (e.g., location ) among multiple event locations is within a threshold distance of the location  of an accommodation option. This may have the effect of determining that the accommodation option provides the user  with convenient access to the accommodation option from the final event.","As shown in , various example embodiments of the method  may include one or more of operations , , , , , , , , , , and . One or more of operations - may be performed as part (e.g., a precursor task, a subroutine, or a portion) of operation .","In operation , the cost module  determines that a particular travel option (e.g., corresponding to transportation option data  or accommodation option data ) is less expensive than another compatible travel option (e.g., corresponding to transportation option data  or accommodation option data ). This may have the effect of enabling the cost module  to rank travel options by monetary expense (e.g., price or cost).","In operation , the cost module  determines that a particular travel option (e.g., corresponding to transportation option data ) has fewer stops than another compatible travel option (e.g., corresponding to transportation option data ). This may have the effect of enabling the cost module to rank travel options by number of stops.","In operation , the cost module  determines a rank of a travel option (e.g., corresponding to transportation option data  or accommodation option data ). The cost module  may determine ranks for multiple travel options. The rank of a particular travel option may be determined based on the location  of an event, a location corresponding to the particular travel option (e.g., departure location , arrival location , or location  of an accommodation option), or any suitable combination thereof. Moreover, the rank of the particular travel option may be determined based on monetary expense (e.g., as described above with respect to operation ). Furthermore, the rank of the particular travel option may be determined based on a number of stops (e.g., as described above with respect to operation ). This may have the effect of enabling the sort module  to generate the presentation of one or more travel options based on one or more ranks determined in operation , which in turn may enable the suggestion module  to present the presentation generated by the sort module .","In operation , the suggestion module  presents a travel option (e.g., as determined in operation  to be compatible with the event) based on a rank of the travel option. For example, the travel option may be presented in a list of compatible travel options, where the list is sorted by rank.","In operation , the suggestion module  presents the travel option by presenting a suggestion that the user  perform a search for one or more similar travel options among multiple travel options. For example, the travel option determined in operation  may be presented with a message stating, \u201cClick here to search for flights like this for your upcoming business trip!\u201d","In operation , the suggestion module  presents the travel option by presenting a suggestion that the user  select (e.g., buy, reserve, or book) the travel option. For example, the travel option determined in operation  may be presented with a message stating, \u201cThis hotel stay fits your business trip. Click here to reserve it now!\u201d","In operation , the suggestion module  presents the travel option by presenting a reminder that the event is scheduled to occur during the period of time  for the event. According to various example embodiments, one or more of operations  and  may be performed as part (e.g., a precursor task, a subroutine, or a portion) of operation . In operation , the reminder is communicated to the user device  (e.g., for the user ). For example, the travel option determined in operation  may be presented with a message stating, \u201cYour business trip to New York is coming up on September 5. Better get a flight soon!\u201d Communications to the user device  may be addressed to the user device , to the user , or to both. In operation , the reminder is communicated to the user device  (e.g., for the user , who may be an assistant of the user , a friend of the user , a family member of the user , a colleague of the user , a client of the user , or another attendee of the event). As an example, the travel option determined in operation  may be presented with a message stating, \u201cJohn's business trip to New York is coming up on September 5, but he hasn't booked a flight yet.\u201d Communications to the user device  may be addressed to the user device , to the user , or to both. According to some example embodiments, the travel option may be presented with a map (e.g., a geographical map of a city) that depicts one or more locations of events, travel options, or any suitable combination thereof (e.g., as pins or markers within the map).","In operation , the suggestion module  presents a calendar (e.g., showing one or more months) with a representation of the period of time  for an event (e.g., a representation of a first period of time) and a representation of the period of time corresponding to the travel option determined in operation  (e.g., a representation of a second period of time). For example, the calendar may include representations of the period of time  and of the period of time  for a transportation option. As another example, the calendar may include representations of the period of time  and of the period of time  for an accommodation option. This may have the effect of indicating (e.g., to the user ) that there is no conflict between the event and the travel option determined in operation . In some example embodiments, the calendar indicates one or more periods of time as blocks (e.g., rectangular shapes) within a chart or grid, and a particular block may indicate that a corresponding period of time is available or unavailable for scheduling a travel option. Moreover, the calendar may indicate a previously selected travel option (e.g., as suggested by the method ) as a previously scheduled event within the calendar (e.g., a tentatively scheduled event).","According to various example embodiments, operation  may be performed as part (e.g., a precursor task, a subroutine, or a portion) of operation . In operation , the suggestion module  presents the calendar with a representation of a further period of time (e.g., a representation of a third period of time) that is adjacent to the period of time  for the event (e.g., the first period of time). For example, the calendar may include representations of one or more dates before or after the period of time  for the event. In some example embodiments, the representations of the one or more dates include indicators of additional travel options determined to be compatible with the event. This may have the effect of presenting (e.g., to the user  or to the user ) travel options that extend beyond the period of time  of an event. According to certain example embodiments, this may enable the user  to make travel plans that accommodate an additional event unrepresented in the calendar data . In some example embodiments, this may enable the presentation of one or more additional travel options that are ranked more favorably than the travel option determined in operation  (e.g., lower cost, fewer stops, more loyalty points, or other special deal).","According to various example embodiments, one or more of the methodologies described herein may facilitate communication of information about one or more travel options. In particular, one or more of the methodologies described herein may constitute all or part of a business method (e.g., a business method implemented using a machine) that presents one or more users with available travel options determined to be compatible with one or more events. Moreover, presentation of such travel options may be conveniently integrated with calendar information, which may facilitate the making of travel plans.","When these effects are considered in aggregate, one or more of the methodologies described herein may obviate a need for certain efforts or resources that otherwise would be involved in matching users (e.g., as potential consumers of travel options) with travel options that are likely to be of interest to those users. Efforts expended by a user in identifying a travel option may be reduced by one or more of the methodologies described herein. Computing resources used by one or more machines, databases, or devices (e.g., within the network environment ) may similarly be reduced. Examples of such computing resources include processor cycles, network traffic, memory usage, data storage capacity, power consumption, and cooling capacity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1000","1000","1024","1000","1000","1000","1000","1024","1024"]},"The machine  includes a processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a radio-frequency integrated circuit (RFIC), or any suitable combination thereof), a main memory , and a static memory , which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine  may further include a graphics display  (e.g., a plasma display panel (PDP), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a projector, or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). The machine  may also include an alphanumeric input device  (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse, a touchpad, a trackball, a joystick, a motion sensor, or other pointing instrument), a storage unit , a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker), and a network interface device .","The storage unit  includes a machine-readable medium  on which is stored the instructions  (e.g., software) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions  may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory , within the processor  (e.g., within the processor's cache memory), or both, during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly, the main memory  and the processor  may be considered as machine-readable media. The instructions  may be transmitted or received over a network  (e.g., network ) via the network interface device .","As used herein, the term \u201cmemory\u201d refers to a machine-readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include, but not be limited to, random-access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), buffer memory, flash memory, and cache memory. While the machine-readable medium  is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, or associated caches and servers) able to store instructions (e.g., instructions ). The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions (e.g., software) for execution by the machine, such that the instructions, when executed by one or more processors of the machine (e.g., processor ), cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, a data repository in the form of a solid-state memory, an optical medium, a magnetic medium, or any suitable combination thereof.","Throughout this specification, plural instances may implement components, operations, or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations, one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently, and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly, structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations, modifications, additions, and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.","Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components, modules, or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules (e.g., code embodied on a machine-readable medium or in a transmission signal) or hardware modules. A \u201chardware module\u201d is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments, one or more computer systems (e.g., a standalone computer system, a client computer system, or a server computer system) or one or more hardware modules of a computer system (e.g., a processor or a group of processors) may be configured by software (e.g., an application or application portion) as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.","In some embodiments, a hardware module may be implemented mechanically, electronically, or any suitable combination thereof. For example, a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example, a hardware module may be a special-purpose processor, such as a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example, a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general-purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically, in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry, or in temporarily configured circuitry (e.g., configured by software) may be driven by cost and time considerations.","Accordingly, the term \u201chardware module\u201d should be understood to encompass a tangible entity, be that an entity that is physically constructed, permanently configured (e.g., hardwired), or temporarily configured (e.g., programmed) to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein, \u201chardware-implemented module\u201d refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured (e.g., programmed), each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example, where the hardware modules comprise a general-purpose processor configured by software to become a special-purpose processor, the general-purpose processor may be configured as respectively different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor, for example, to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.","Hardware modules can provide information to, and receive information from, other hardware modules. Accordingly, the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously, communications may be achieved through signal transmission (e.g., over appropriate circuits and buses) between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times, communications between such hardware modules may be achieved, for example, through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example, one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then, at a later time, access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices, and can operate on a resource (e.g., a collection of information).","The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed, at least partially, by one or more processors that are temporarily configured (e.g., by software) or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured, such processors may constitute processor-implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein, \u201cprocessor-implemented module\u201d refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.","Similarly, the methods described herein may be at least partially processor-implemented, a processor being an example of hardware. For example, at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor-implemented modules. Moreover, the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a \u201ccloud computing\u201d environment or as a \u201csoftware as a service\u201d (SaaS). For example, at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers (as examples of machines including processors), with these operations being accessible via a network (e.g., the Internet) and via one or more appropriate interfaces (e.g., an application program interface (API)).","The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors, not only residing within a single machine, but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments, the one or more processors or processor-implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location (e.g., within a home environment, an office environment, or a server farm). In other example embodiments, the one or more processors or processor-implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.","Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory (e.g., a computer memory). These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein, an \u201calgorithm\u201d is a self-consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context, algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically, but not necessarily, such quantities may take the form of electrical, magnetic, or optical signals capable of being stored, accessed, transferred, combined, compared, or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to such signals using words such as \u201cdata,\u201d \u201ccontent,\u201d \u201cbits,\u201d \u201cvalues,\u201d \u201celements,\u201d \u201csymbols,\u201d \u201ccharacters,\u201d \u201cterms,\u201d \u201cnumbers,\u201d \u201cnumerals,\u201d or the like. These words, however, are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.","Unless specifically stated otherwise, discussions herein using words such as \u201cprocessing,\u201d \u201ccomputing,\u201d \u201ccalculating,\u201d \u201cdetermining,\u201d \u201cpresenting,\u201d \u201cdisplaying,\u201d or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine (e.g., a computer) that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical (e.g., electronic, magnetic, or optical) quantities within one or more memories (e.g., volatile memory, non-volatile memory, or any suitable combination thereof), registers, or other machine components that receive, store, transmit, or display information. Furthermore, unless specifically stated otherwise, the terms \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d are herein used, as is common in patent documents, to include one or more than one instance. Finally, as used herein, the conjunction \u201cor\u201d refers to a non-exclusive \u201cor,\u201d unless specifically stated otherwise."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Some embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7-9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
