---
title: Selection and sharing of verified search results
abstract: Aspects of the disclosure include establishing a verified set of search results, as a selection of search results returned by a search engine, responsive to a pre-defined query. The verified set of search results are stored and associated with a URL. The URL can be distributed by an entity that establishes the definition of the query and the selection of search results. When the URL is activated, the selection of search results can be returned, with a link to the search engine that allows a redirect to the search engine, with the pre-defined query, so that a current set of search results is returned by the search engine responsive to the pre-defined query. The entity can be notified when the URL is used, and information concerning the party activating the URL can be provided to the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08095534&OS=08095534&RS=08095534
owner: Vizibility Inc.
number: 08095534
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110518
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED CASES","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional App. No. 61\/452,585, filed on Mar. 14, 2011, entitled \u201cSELECTION AND SHARING OF VERIFIED SEARCH RESULTS\u201d, the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.","1. Field:","Aspects disclosed herein relate to information searching, and more particularly to aiding potential subjects of searches (e.g., a person) to have more control over information returned about that subject (e.g., a particular person), as described below.","2. Related Art","Internet users experience increasing difficulty navigating online information and document collections, as the amount of such information available increases. Likewise, companies, individuals and other organizations wishing to be found by Internet users face growing challenges with maintaining their online visibility. For example, it is estimated that the World Wide Web on the Internet includes more than 11 billion pages in the publicly indexable Web across more than 110 million web sites. Consequently, finding desired information in such a large collection, unless the identity, location, or characteristics of a specific document or search target are well known, can be much like looking for a needle in a haystack. The World Wide Web is a loosely interlinked collection of documents (mostly text and images) located on servers distributed over the Internet. Generally speaking, each document has an address, or Uniform Resource Locator (URL), in the exemplary form \u201chttp:\/\/www.server.net\/directory\/file.html\u201d. In that notation, the \u201chttp:\u201d specifies the protocol by which the document is to be delivered, in this case the \u201cHyperText Transport Protocol.\u201d The \u201cwww.server.net\u201d specifies the name of a computer, or server, on which the document resides; \u201cdirectory\u201d refers to a directory or folder on the server in which the document resides; and \u201cfile.html\u201d specifies the name of the file. URLs can be extremely long, complex strings of machine readable code.","Most documents on the Web are in HTML (HyperText Markup Language) format, which allows for formatting to be applied to the document, external content (such as images and other multimedia data types) to be introduced within the document, and \u201chotlinks\u201d or \u201clinks\u201d to other documents to be placed within the document, among other things. \u201cHotlinking\u201d allows a user to navigate between documents on the Web simply by selecting an item of interest within a page. For example, a Web page about reprographic technology might have a hotlink to the Xerox corporate web site. By selecting the hotlink (often by clicking a marked word, image, or area with a pointing device, such as a mouse), the user's Web browser is instructed to follow the hotlink (usually via a URL, frequently invisible to the user, associated with the hotlink) and read a different document. A user cannot be expected to know or remember a URL for each and every document on the Internet, or even URLs for those documents in a smaller collection of preferred documents.","Accordingly, navigation assistance is not only helpful, but important for practical internet usage. Such navigation assistance is typically providing via an Internet based search engine, such as Google\u00ae, Microsoft's Bing\u00ae, Yahoo!\u00ae or the like. Accordingly, when an Internet user desires to find information about a company, individual or organization, the Internet user will frequently turn to a \u201csearch engine\u201d to locate the information. A search engine serves as an index into the content stored on the Internet. It has become increasingly common for third parties to try to learn more about an entity (e.g., a person, company, organization, etc.; hereinafter, the example of a person as the entity is used for clarity) by searching for publicly available information about that entity using such search engines.","Regardless of how a particular search engine determines what results to return in response to a particular search, Internet users searching for companies, individuals or organizations with similar characteristics (i.e. name, industry, etc.) often receive search results that are inaccurate, or relate to entities other than the intended search target. For example, a search for \u201cJohn Smith\u201d, with the intention of obtaining information about a particular person by that name, will return many results about different \u201cJohn Smith's\u201d, such that the desired John Smith may not have any relevant results. In these instances, the Internet user may build more complex search queries to generate more relevant results, which is only possible if the searcher possesses information that can be used as a basis for such queries.","It is understood and well documented that it is desirable for companies, individuals and organizations to appear early in search results for personal, financial and other reasons. Prominence in search results for a given term or terms in search engines is a form of third party validation, at least in that Internet users place a higher value on entries in top search results because of their perceived relevance, success, and size. Therefore, viewership of search results or click throughs for search results on subsequent results pages declines precipitously.","Search Engine Optimization (SEO) has emerged as a category of services available to operators of web sites. SEO provides for deliberately engineering prominent placement in search results by tailoring web sites to the algorithms employed by a given search engine. In addition to SEO, \u2018paid search\u2019 may be utilized to display an advertisement on the top pages of search results for a given search term(s). SEO, paid search and other optimization strategies are typically only engaged by organizations due to their complexity and cost. Individuals have fewer options to achieve optimal placement in search results.","Google Profiles is one example of a mechanism individuals can utilize to offer information specific to themselves. Google Profiles does not influence search results, however, and individuals with even slightly common names often find themselves in a long list with others, eliminating the value of the feature. SEO, paid search, Google Profiles, and other similar optimization strategies are reactive in that they only influence but do not control what is returned in search results. These strategies are necessary because the natural search behavior of Internet users favors implementation of less sophisticated search queries or the Internet user simply does not possess the information necessary to build a complex search query that will allow the return of appropriately focused results. When companies, individuals or organizations with similar characteristics engage like optimization strategies, however, the differentiation gained from them diminishes and the value declines for them and also for those seeking information on such search targets.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":"In a previous application now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,831,609, an approach to assisting targets of searches to gain more visibility in Internet searches was described. In one aspect of such approach, a query formation tool assists a user through a query formulation process, the result of which is a query to be submitted to one or more search engines. The query formulation process helps a user tailor the query so that desired search results are maintained, while others are excluded. Results to be excluded may not be applicable to the user being assisted with the query, for example. As such, excluding those results helps more relevant results be featured more prominently in search results returned using that query. The query can be directly referenced by a short URL, which can also be embedded in a button, graphic, quick response (QR) code, and so on. The user can provide the short URL, QR code, etc. on web sites, social networking sites, business cards, and the like. When the short URL is used by a searcher, the short URL can cause a redirect to the search engine, and submission of that query to the search engine, so that the search engine returns results of the query to the searcher."}}}},"Another approach to assisting searchers in identifying relevant, trusted, or otherwise verified search results about a particular search target (e.g., a person) is to provide a user with the capability of selecting search results from a set of search results provided by a search engine, in response to a query such as the one described above. A short URL or other link can be provided to the user, and the user can provide that URL to potential searchers. When a searcher activates the URL, the searcher is presented with a list of those verified search results. The verified search results can be in an order specified by the user, such that an ordering of the search results can be different from the order in which the search engine presented those results. Results presented by the search engine can be absent from the verified results; for example, because the user deemed them less relevant. Additionally, the user can be presented with an option to include a search result directed to a particular resource, which the search engine did not identify; that search result also will be presented with the others. The following disclosure includes aspects relating to an example implementation of such a system, and other related topics.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["112","110"]},"Search query provider  can be used by an entity (e.g., a person) to obtain a definition of a search query. A link or reference to the obtained query definition can be distributed to third parties, for use in obtaining information about a particular subject (e.g., the person who created the pre-defined query, an organization, object, place, concept, product, service, event, or the like). In other words, the query is defined by a process performed prior to distribution of the query (or references to the query) for use in searching. Typically, the query is defined with a view to tailoring the results that are returned from the query to a desired subject, as will be described below, such subjects can include a person, a group, an organization, a business, for example, and not by way of limitation.","Returning to search query provider , an example composition of search query provider  includes a search engine interface , which interfaces with one or more search engines (a search engine  is depicted), such as through respective Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) provided by the search engines (an API  for search engine  is depicted). Search query provider  also has a store of scripts (e.g., javascripts) and UI templates , which as will be described below are for use in configuring a UI  located at a browser , which is used (in this example) for creating a pre-search query (such scripts also can be run on other devices, such as on server resources). An account creation server  also is provided for interfacing with UI , and includes information gathering functionality that can be implemented through UI .","A link server  is provided to accept requests for a resource identified by a link (e.g., a link  made available on a web resource ), which can be selected or otherwise activated by a browser , which is accessing web resource . An analytics engine  communicates with link server , and operates to obtain and analyze information available from such linking activities. In a particular example, a pre-search query can be referenced by link , such that when link  is activated (e.g., by clicking on a visual depiction of the link, in a page served by web resource  to browser ), information about browser , and a device on which it is running can be obtained.","As will be described further below, various constituent elements of search query provider  communicate with each other, in order to perform query definition steps and\/or selection of verified results steps delineated in the examples that follow. For example, account creation server  can store profile information in profile storage (profiles ). Also, account creation server  can update link information on link server  (e.g., to publish a new link that can be used or otherwise distributed). Similarly, account creation server  may communicate with search engine interface  for providing trial queries to be submitted to search engine , and to receive results returned responsive to those queries. Browsers  and  may be implemented using Internet browsers, such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera, Safari or browsers provided on mobile phones, smart phones, PDAs, or other Internet-connected appliances.","The scripts\/UI templates stored in  or otherwise implementing a portion of search query provider  also can be used to implement other user interface aspects relating to selection of verified results, saving those results, and serving them responsive to resource requests made through URLs linked to those saved results. Such verified results can be stored in verified results search results storage .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["201","203","205","207","209","211","213","211"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["260","262","264","266","268"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["213","271","301","302","303"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["271","305","307","305","306"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["309","309","1","5"]},"Referring to , drop-down menu () performs display () of an enumeration of available slots for a (pre-determined) number of verified results, and display () of an option to add a specified search result, and input a relative ordering therefor. Also, a number of pages of available search results can be provided for display (), as exemplified in , where a page of search results, and an index  of the pages of available results also is presented.","System  can receive input indicating a selection of a particular slot for the selected search result (). Responsive to receiving such information, system  stores information for the search result; in one example, system  stores the entirety of the information displayed as the search result in results storage . System  also stores () metadata indicating the selected relative order for this result. System  also can update () an enumeration of remaining available slots in the verified results list.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["110","305","110","110","3","4","5","311","2","1","285","111"]},"Also, in an example, after each search result is selected, a determination as to whether all slots in the set of verified results have been selected can be made (), and if there still are more slots, then a further determination as to whether more search results are available also can be made (). If there are more slots and more search results from which verified results may be selected, then the process can return to display a group or list of remaining (e.g., not yet reviewed) search results from which verified results may be selected, as explained above. If further input indicative of a selection of another search result as a verified result is received, then the process elements described above can be repeated for that selected search result.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":"314"},"Returning to the process flow of , if it was determined that all slots were filled (), then rather than continue to display available search results for further verified result selection, the process can end (). However, the user interface can continue to remain displayed, and allow selection of pages of results for display, as evidenced in . In particular,  includes a list () of pages of search results available for display, which allow switching among pages of search results returned from search engine (). Additionally, the interface can also include a selector () for a verified results page, which allows display of an ordered list of the verified results picked at a point when that selector () is selected, by input through the interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 10"],"b":["317","293","281","291"]},"A still further option for inputting verified search results that can be made available through an interface is inputting of a specified URL, indicative of content, that was not returned by search engine  responsive to the query that was submitted. Such a feature allows explicit inclusion of content that may be relevant to understanding one or more aspects of a background about a particular entity (e.g., a person, company, organization, etc.), but the algorithm supporting return of search results by search engine  has not identified such content as relevant enough to include in returned search results.","As an example implementation of such a feature,  depicts that an add content interface  provides for a URL to be inputted () and an interface element () to specify a relative order among the verified results to assign to the result represented by the inputted URL. In this example, element () can be the same type of drop-down allowing selection of a particular number from any number not already assigned, as explained above. In another example, the inputted result can simply be assigned to a next available slot, or a last available slot, or any other behavior, such as putting the added result in the first position and pushing the remaining previously selected results down a position in the ordering, such that a result that was in the number  position would be removed from the verified results list. These actions can be accounted for in the process depicted in and an interface element for explicitly assigning such a number is not required.","Returning to process portion  of , if all slots are filled (), input can be received () to de-select certain previously-selected results. If such input is received, then the process can loop back to receive further selection of results to be maintained as verified results (). Of course, it may be considered desirable to fill all available slots for a specified number of verified search results; however, processes according to these example disclosures do not need to require filling all such slots. Rather, a further ability to end verified results selection at any time can be provided. Further variations of such example disclosures are within the ability of those of ordinary skill, in view of these disclosures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 7-9","FIG. 10","FIG. 4"],"b":["316","319","5","1","2"]},"The interface element depicted in  can be displayed prior to completion of the process depicted in , in confirmation. After such confirmation (for example), the verified results selection and the query definition can be considered final, and a publication process for the URL that will reference both the query and the verified search results can be performed. In implementations according to these disclosures, a service that provides for one or more of the definition of a pre-defined query, and selection of verified search results can assist also in query publication, such as by assisting with creation of QR codes embodying the URL, linking to partnering web sites, and so on. However, a user also can be provided the URL, and the user can provide or otherwise make the URL available, and as such, also can be involved in such publication. Therefore, these examples are not to be considered as requiring participation in URL publication by any particular entity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 20"],"b":["323","326","324","326","550"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["550","550"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 1"],"b":["326","550","402","404","402","404","119","118","117","414"]},"In some instances, enabling a user to show verified results can be provided as a premium feature and in other instances, having the ability turn it off can be provided as a premium feature. Alternatively, the association of a paid subscription can be a basis for providing selected search results, and not performing an immediate redirect. As such, the functionality of presenting pre-selected search results can be made a premium feature, or a feature that is required for trial subscriptions.","By way of example, the process of  can include determining () whether the account so correlated with the URL is a paid account or a free account. If the account is a paid account, then an option () may allow for direct retrieval and presentation of search results from the search engine using the pre-defined query associated with the URL (). The search results can be live or previously stored. However, if the account is not a paid account, or if the option to immediately present all search results is not selected (for a paid account), then a determination () as to whether there are search result verified can be made. If there are verified results in storage (e.g., in storage ), then those results are presented () in an interstitial window (for example), or a new tab, page, or browser, as explained with respect to .","If the option for immediate redirect is not selected (or not available, in some examples), then the method can proceed to a determination () as to whether verified results exist. In sum, the alternate paths from paid account determination () can be reversed, and where an immediate redirect is not a desired account option (or is not allowed), then the method can proceed to determining availability of verified results and the ensuing portions of the example process.","If there are no verified results in storage, then a determination () concerning how many search results are returned responsive to using the pre-defined URL in a live search is made. If there are at least a pre-determined minimum number of results, then those results are presented () in an interstitial window, tab, page or browser instance. These results can be differentiated by identifying them as search results, rather than verified search results, for example. However, if a number of results returned for the search is not at least such minimum number, then the request can be redirected () to the search engine, so that the available search results are displayed within a window associated with the search engine, as depicted in . A user associated with the URL can be notified () of the URL usage at the conclusion or during processes according to these disclosures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 15"],"b":["329","330","330","333","331"]},"Referencing , an example of using a QR code (such as QR code  depicted in ) to convey URL information, and effect transfer of other data is explained.","In particular, usage of a camera on a mobile device to capture and interpret QR  can result in decoding of the URL that was encoded. This URL can be used to obtain the resource referenced by such URL, which can include a page, such as the example page depicted in . Such page can include a button  to obtain all search results, which functions as described with respect to button  depicted in , for example. Another button that can be provided is an \u201cadd contact\u201d button , which allows contact information relating to the entity (e.g., person) identified by the URL to be retrieved and displayed, as shown by example in , with contact information . The action of emailing such vcard to the email provided a way to add the contact information to a contacts manager application on the device, as shown with respect to contact information  depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["568","567","568","570"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 1","FIG. 24","FIGS. 21-23"],"b":["126","110"]},"Such exemplary method includes scanning () a QR code (e.g., from a business card) using a camera or other input available on the device in question. The QR code is interpreted according to relevant standards, and a URL encoded therein is extracted (), and used to obtain or navigate () to a resource referenced by the URL.","Upon receiving a request for the URL, a capability detection of capabilities of the requesting platform can be performed (). For example, detection of a browser type and version can be performed. A browser type detected can be used as a proxy for determining whether the requesting device is a mobile device, and a page appropriate for a smaller or larger screen size can be responsively selected (). Based identifying an account or entity associated with the URL, a determination whether contact information is shareable (e.g., available, and settings allow sharing) is performed ().","If contact information is shareable, then a page that includes search results and also includes an \u201cadd contact\u201d button is provided (), as exemplified in , with add contact button , and if contact information is not shareable, then a page (not separately depicted) with search results but without such button is provided (). The page provided ( or ) is returned to be rendered on the requesting device. Such page is displayed () on the requesting device. Where the page includes the \u201cadd contact\u201d button, an input indicative of selection of such button can be received (), and that button can then result in a request () for the resource referenced by the button. The resource referenced can itself vary based on capabilities of the device making the request. A request for such resource is received () at the serving device, and a determination () whether the requesting device supports direct download of a contact file is made.","If the requesting device supports such direct contact file download (e.g., in a vcard format), then the vcard file is provided for download. For example, an existing platform that supports direct download of vcard files, and import into a contact manager are mobile devices based on the Android\u00ae operating system, which is available from Google Inc. The device then receives and processes () the contact file (exemplary vcard file), resulting in the addition of the received contact information to a contact manager for the device. However, if the device cannot support direct download and importation of a contact file, then a page of content is returned () to the device. An example of such a page  is depicted in , wherein contact information that would be made available can be shown, along with a field  to enter an e-mail address. The entry () of an email address, and subsequent sending () of the e-mail address allows a response of sending () of an e-mail addressed to the provided e-mail address, where that e-mail includes a file, or more generally the contact information and associated metadata in a format that can be processed (), resulting in the import of the contact information into the contact manager for the device.  depicts a specific example of using a vcard file format. However, embodiments according to this description are not limited to such format, in that a person of ordinary skill, from these examples, would be able to device a variety of approaches to provision of such contact information, and descriptor information about the contact information to allow a contact manager to import such information.","The method depicted in  depicts an approach where contact information is provided from a remote device, such as a server, in response to a request process from a device, such as a mobile device. However, other approaches within the scope of this description include encoding such contact information into the QR code (e.g., QR code ) itself, along with interpretation information that identifies what the encoded information represents. If the QR code cannot include the entirety of the information, or if the QR code is desired to be kept under a certain size, then a selection of the contact information can be made, and the method of  can be invoked for contact information not included in the QR code. For example, an e-mail address, and main contact telephone number can be included, while physical address information can be made available through methods according to the example method of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 13","FIG. 14"],"b":["338","406","308","416","333"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17","FIG. 1"],"b":["425","425","427","426","431","425","435","425","435","429","429","425","429","430","425","435","429","435","110","109"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 1"],"b":["450","450","126","125","450","130","110"]},"Example computer system  may include a host Central Processing Unit (CPU) (), which may be implemented as a semiconductor containing one or more distinct microprocessor units, commonly called \u201ccores\u201d, to indicate distinctness, but yet integration on a common substrate. Modern processors typically comprise multiple cores, such as 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 or more cores. Host CPU  also can be implemented with a plurality of physically separate microprocessor units, disposed in separate sockets. Host CPU  communicates with a chipset , which typically includes memory bus logic, and other interfaces to other functionality, such as an expansion bus for supporting I\/O, such as network traffic to and from network interface(s) , mass storage  (e.g., hard drives), as well as peripherals, such as those that can be provided for a user interface (). Example of such peripherals include a keyboard, serial I\/O, a mouse, voice recognition inputs, touch screen inputs, and so on.","Chipset  also may support connection of a display , and therefore may include graphics logic for rendering content to be displayed. Such graphics logic may use main memory  as video memory, or a separate video memory may be provided. Where system  is used for implementing end-user computers, a display  is more likely to be included. Frequently, if system  is functioning as a server, a display would not be provided.","Of course, the example system  is provided by way of example and not limitation as to what kinds of devices may be used in implementing aspects disclosed herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art may adapt the disclosures presented herein for use with a variety of devices, such as smartphones, tablet computers, laptops, and so on, which may be implemented using components that are more or less integrated than those depicted herein, and which may include more functionality or fewer functions than what is depicted in this example.","More generally, unless specified otherwise, the example methods depicted in the figures do not imply a requirement of ordering of steps, aside from the depicted responsiveness to events, and other predicate conditions. As such, methods within the scope of this description include methods that perform such steps in a different order, omit steps, or include other steps or actions not depicted in the examples. For example, with respect to , search results can be stored before or after a URL is provided. For example, a short URL can be selected in advance, even before a query that ultimately will be referenced by the URL is finalized. A variety of such variations would be within the scope of those of ordinary skill, in view of these disclosures. Similarly, the example structures shown that may implement such methods and other aspects imply no exclusion as to structures or apparatus or systems that may perform such methods. Such methods also may be performed jointly by multiple machines, each handling a portion of a method according to the examples. These options are themselves merely examples why the subject matter of the claims is to be limited solely by the full scope of the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 14 and 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 21-23","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
