---
title: Modular mortar baseplate
abstract: A modular mortar baseplate may include a top plate with an outer annular substantially planar portion and a recessed central portion. A socket may be disposed in the recessed central portion. A hub may be disposed beneath the recessed central portion. A plurality of legs may be connected to an underside of the top plate and to the hub. Each leg may include a pair of vertical portions, a horizontal portion, and a pair of rounded portions that join the pair of vertical portions to the horizontal portion. Each of the pair of rounded portions may have a radius that decreases in a radially inward direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707849&OS=08707849&RS=08707849
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08707849
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110620
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to mortar systems and in particular to baseplates for mortar systems.","Before mortar systems became crew-carried weapons, their recoil loads were absorbed by a large structure, such as a gun carriage. Large structures such as a gun carriage are too heavy to be carried by a single individual. The problem of absorbing recoil from mortar systems has existed since mortar systems became crew-carried weapons.","A baseplate may be used with a mortar system to absorb recoil. A baseplate may be small enough to be man-portable. A baseplate may provide an interface between a mortar gun tube and the ground to thereby allow the ground to absorb the recoil energy of the mortar gun tube.","Various baseplates designs have been used in the past. U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,765,707 and 2,558,024 disclose baseplate designs. Most baseplates have been solid metal castings or forgings. Known baseplates may be relatively heavy due to their all-metal, bulky construction. While known baseplates may adequately absorb recoil, they may be improved by decreasing their mass. Decreased mass means less of a burden on the person carrying the baseplate. Baseplates of lower mass have long been sought by users of crew-carried mortar systems.","Past efforts to construct a baseplate out of lighter weight composite materials have failed to produce a reliable baseplate. One problem with composite baseplate designs has been the joint between the legs and the top plate. In metal baseplates, the legs and top plate may be made from a single piece of material, so that there is no need to join the legs to the top plate. Composite baseplates, however, may not be cast or forged like metal baseplates","A need exists for reliable, low mass baseplates for mortar systems.","It is an object of the invention to provide a reliable, low mass baseplate for a mortar system.","One aspect of the invention is a modular mortar baseplate. The baseplate may include a top plate having an outer annular substantially planar portion and a recessed central portion. A socket may be disposed in the recessed central portion. A hub may be disposed beneath the recessed central portion. A plurality of legs may be connected to an underside of the top plate and to the hub. Each leg may include a pair of vertical portions, a horizontal portion, and a pair of rounded portions that join the pair of vertical portions to the horizontal portion.","The pair of rounded portions may have a radius that decreases in a radially inward direction. The radius at a most radially distal portion of the rounded portions may be no more than about one-half a height of the legs. The radius at a most radially proximal portion of the rounded portions may be the greater of about twice a thickness of the vertical portion of the legs and about 0.25 inches.","The horizontal portion of each of the legs may be substantially contiguous with an underside of the outer annular substantially planar portion of the top plate. Adjacent legs may include substantially contiguous vertical portions. A portion of each of the legs that is radially inward of the horizontal portion of each of the legs may be contiguous with the recessed central portion of the top plate.","The hub may include slots for receiving radially proximal vertical portions of two adjacent legs.","The top plate and the plurality of legs may comprise a composite material.","Another aspect of the invention is a method of making a baseplate. The method may include separately fabricating a top plate and a plurality of legs, and then joining the plurality of legs to the top plate. Joining the plurality of legs to the top plate may include joining horizontal portions of each leg to an underside of the top plate.","The method may include abutting together vertical portions of adjacent legs. A portion of each of the legs that is radially inward of the horizontal portion of each of the legs may be joined to a recessed central portion of the top plate.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","A modular mortar baseplate may: 1) have 40% or greater reduction in mass compared to known baseplates; 2) meet the same performance metrics as known baseplates; 3) have the same space claim as known baseplates; 4) have the same or a greater projected surface area on the ground as known baseplates; 5) have a toughness similar to known baseplates; and 6) have a resistance to damage similar to known baseplates. A lower mass baseplate may decrease the burden on the person carrying the baseplate. Decreasing the burden may increase the person's stamina or may allow the person to carry other important items that would exceed overall weight limits if a known baseplate were being carried rather than a modular mortar baseplate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIGS. 2A","FIGS. 1A-B","FIGS. 2A-C","FIGS. 1A-B"],"b":["10","2","2","10","10"]},"A modular mortar baseplate  may include a top plate , a plurality of legs , a socket , and a hub . Top plate  may include openings  therein. Openings  may decrease the mass of top plate . Socket  may receive the ball joint located at the end of a mortar cannon. Legs  may be positioned under and connected to top plate . Hub  may provide additional ground contact surface. Legs  may be connected to hub . If baseplate  were used with an 81 mm mortar cannon, then the overall diameter of baseplate  may be, for example, about twenty to about twenty-two inches.","As seen in , top plate  may include an outer annular substantially planar portion  and a recessed central portion . Socket  may be disposed in recessed central portion . Hub  () may be disposed beneath recessed central portion . Legs  may be connected to an underside  of top plate  and to hub  ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIGS. 5A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["14","5","5","14","14","48","20","12","14","26","28","30","26","28","30"]},"Radius R at a most radially distal portion  of rounded portion  may be no more than about one-half a height H of leg . An exemplary height H of leg  may be, for example, about five to about six inches. Radius R at a most radially proximal portion  of rounded portion  may be the greater of about twice a thickness T of vertical portion  of leg  and about 0.25 inches. An exemplary thickness T of vertical portion  may be, for example, about one eighth to about three eighths of an inch.","Referring again to  and A-C, and as best seen in , horizontal portion  of each leg  may be substantially contiguous with underside  of outer annular substantially planar portion  of top plate . As shown in , portion  of leg  that is radially inward of horizontal portion  may be contiguous with recessed central portion  of top plate . As seen in  and B, adjacent legs  may include substantially contiguous vertical portions .  shows that top plate , socket , hub , and legs  may be joined by threaded fasteners . Bonding may be used to join top plate , socket , hub , and legs .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A","FIGS. 1B"],"b":["6","6","18","18","36","38","2","2","4","14"]},"Each leg  may include an opening  () at a radially proximal portion for receiving threaded fastener . Hub  may include corresponding openings  () for receiving threaded fasteners .","Socket  may first receive the recoil load of the cannon. All recoil load may pass through socket . Socket  may comprise, for example, aluminum. Socket  may be supported by top plate . Thus, recoil load from socket  may be transferred to top plate . Top plate  may transfer the recoil load to legs .","The configuration of legs  may allow the recoil load from the large surface area of top plate  to move into horizontal portions  of legs  and around and down radius R and into vertical portions  of legs . Vertical portions  of legs  may transfer the recoil load to the ground or other surface on which baseplate  is resting. The ground may absorb the recoil load. The resulting reaction force from the ground may move from vertical portions  of legs  up and around radius R and into horizontal portions  of legs  before transferring into top plate  over a large surface area. Radius R may reduce the stress concentration in legs  and in the joint between legs  and top plate . Radius R may allow legs  and the joint between legs  and top plate  to withstand the recoil loading.","As a result of the configuration of legs  and top plate , legs  and top plate  may be made of composite materials, rather than metal. The use of composite material may reduce the weight of baseplate . Legs  may be fabricated separately from top plate . Then, legs  may be bonded to top plate . Each leg  may be identical and sized such that the outermost edges of vertical portions  of adjacent legs  are flush with each other. The plurality of legs  may extend the full 360\u00b0 beneath top plate .","The embodiment of baseplate  in the Figures includes five legs . However, fewer or more legs  may be used. In each case, horizontal portions  of each leg  may match or be contiguous with underside  of top plate . Legs  and top plate  may be bonded together after being separately fabricated. Socket  and hub  may be connected to top plate  and legs  with fasteners  and\/or other methods, such as, for example, bonding.","Top plate  and legs  may be fabricated by a number of different techniques. For example, top plate  and legs  may be laid up by hand with prepreg composite, or dry fiber and resin, and then cured. Or, top plate  and legs  may be formed from flat composite sheets in a press. Or, top plate  and legs  may be laid up using tape placement. Other composite material fabrication methods may also be used. After top plate  and legs  are separately fabricated, they may be connected by bonding using epoxy, film adhesive, or other joining methods. Connecting top plate  and legs  by bonding may include aligning top plate  and legs  in a matched mold and then bonding them together.","If top plate  and legs  are made of metal, they may be stamped, machined, forged, or cast.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A","FIGS. 1A-B","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"],"b":["2","2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIGS. 1A-B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIGS. 1A-B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 4A-4B","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5A"],"b":["5","5","5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A","FIGS. 1A-B","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6B"],"b":["6","6","6","6"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
