---
title: Point of interest (POI) data positioning in image
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for positioning point-of-interest (POI) data in a planar panorama image, generated from a plurality of relatively sequential images. First POI data with a first geo-location and second POI data with a second geo-location can be received for the planar panorama image, and first and second data tags can be created that respectively comprise at least some of the first and second POI data. A cluster geo-location may be identified for the first and second data tags based at least upon the first and second geo-locations, and the first and second data tags can be clustered at the cluster geo-location in the planar panorama image. The first and second data tags can be re-clustered (e.g., moved around) and displayed at different locations within the planar panorama image in response to a zoom operation, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09406153&OS=09406153&RS=09406153
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09406153
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111214
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Digital photography can allow for a sequence of images to be stitched or glued together to provide for a relatively seamless transition from one image to the next. Further, images, such as side-view images, can be collected while traveling along a route, such as a street. Stitching these side-view images together can provide a user experience of travelling along the route, for example.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","A side or lateral-view of panoramic imagery may comprise a series of images (e.g., photo frames, video frames, etc.) stitched\/glued together to form a somewhat seamless view of the imagery. This type of planer panorama imagery typically displays many of the stitched together images at a same time. Currently, images stitched together in this manner can be utilized in conjunction with digital mapping services, where, for example, a user may view planer panorama-type images of a street associated with a map they may be viewing.","Point-of-interest (POI) information can be provided in a display comprising a planar panorama image, for example, where the POI information may be relatively co-located with the associated POI (e.g., building, historic location, street, business, geo-location, city, etc.). However, when there are a large number of co-located geographic points, comprising POIs (e.g., businesses in an office building, stores in a mall, exhibits in a park or gallery, etc.), the visual display of the respective POI information may overlap and\/or be obscured (by one another). Further, these types of planar panorama images often provide low accuracy for geo-locations associated with a POI; and when an image is zoomed out, there may be a higher density of the POIs, resulting in confusion to the viewer.","Accordingly, among other things, one or more techniques and\/or systems are disclosed that can provide for improved clustering of POI information or data in a planar panorama image, for example, particularly where there may be a high density of POIs at a location (e.g., when zoomed out). Respective POI geo-locations can be identified for one or more POIs for a particular view of the planar panorama image, and a common, cluster geo-location may be identified, where appropriate. As an example, instead of locating respective POI data tags at their corresponding (e.g., and possibly inaccurate, overlapping, etc.) geo-location, the tags may be clustered together (in an orderly manner) at the common, cluster geo-location. The planar panorama image may be rendered with the appropriate one or more clusters of one or more data tags.","In one embodiment of positioning point-of-interest (POI) data in a planar panorama image, first POI data that comprises a first geo-location, and second POI data that comprises a second geo-location, can be received. Further, a first data tag can be created, comprising at least a portion of the first POI data, and a second data tag can be created, comprising at least a portion of the second POI data. Additionally, the first data tag and second data tag can be clustered at a cluster geo-location in the planar panorama image. The cluster geo-location may be based at least upon the first geo-location and the second geo-location. It may be appreciated that, unless indicated to the contrary, terms such as first, second and\/or the like are merely used herein as identifiers, and are not meant to imply an ordering, sequence, temporal aspect, finite or limited number or grouping of items, terms, etc., and thus are not meant to limit the scope of the instant application, including the appended claims, in such a manner.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","Among other things, as provided herein, a method may be devised that provides for rendering point-of-interest (POI) data or information for a planar panorama image, where the POI data can be located in relative proximity to an actual location (e.g., geo-location) of the POI in the image. Further, when the image is altered, such as by zooming in and\/or out, a location of the POI information may be appropriately adjusted to provide a relatively accurate location of the POI. Additionally, the POI information for more than one POI may be clustered together when the zoom level of the image may otherwise cause the POI information to overlap or obscure other data in the image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104"]},"At , a first data tag, comprising at least a portion of the first POI data, and a second data tag, comprising at least a portion of the second POI data, are created. A data tag can comprise, for example, a piece of information that can be included with a rendered version of the planar panorama image. As one example, the data tag may comprise text of at least a portion of the POI data (e.g., name, descriptor, etc.), an icon that may be representative of at least a portion of POI data (e.g., a bus-stop icon, logo, etc.), and\/or an image (e.g., user-submitted image and\/or portion of video, etc.) that may be representative of at least a portion of POI data.","At , the first data tag and second data tag are clustered at a cluster geo-location in the planar panorama image. The cluster geo-location is based at least upon the first geo-location and the second geo-location. As one example, both the first and second tags may not properly fit (e.g., to provide a desired user experience) in the planer panorama image display, due to a proximity of the first and second geo-locations to each other. For example, the first and second geo-locations may indicate adjacent businesses (e.g., or businesses in a same building) in the planar panorama image. However, in this example, due to a viewable (e.g., font) size of the data tags for the image, the first and second data tags may overlap, obscure, and\/or otherwise interfere with one another if placed in proximity with their respective geo-locations (e.g., business locations). Therefore, in this example, the first and second data tags can be clustered together at the cluster geo-location where the cluster geo-location may comprise a location between (e.g., or at) the first and second geo-locations.","Having clustered the first and second data tags in the planar panorama image, the exemplary method  ends at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","250","204","252","250"]},"At , a first view for the planar panorama image can be identified, for example, based on the received image data  and the received indication of the first zoom level . As an illustrative example,  illustrates an example embodiment  where one or more portions of one or more techniques described herein may be implemented. In this example , a planar panorama image  comprises street-side imagery , such as buildings, landscape, etc. Further, in this example, the image  may be zoomed to a level (e.g., the first zoom level) that allows a large portion, amount, etc. of the imagery  to be included in the image  (e.g., a wide-view of the street-level imagery).","Returning to , at , POI data  for the first view of the planar panorama image (e.g.,  of ) can be received. As described above, POI data can comprise, among other things, an entity name, entity metadata, updated entity metadata, and\/or update location metadata, as one example. Further, the POI data can comprise a geo-location, for example, where at least a portion of the POI data is associated with the geo-location. For example, POI data comprising a business name may be associated with the geo-location for that business (e.g., an address, latitude, longitude, global positioning system (GPS) data, grid coordinate, etc.). In one embodiment, POI data available for entities and\/or locations in the first view of the planar panorama image may be received.","At , one or more data tags can be created for the first view of the planar panorama image. As described above, a data tag may comprise at least a portion of the POI data, for example, such as text, an icon, and\/or an image. As an illustrative example, in , data tags can comprise text, in this case, comprising a name of a business and\/or location comprised in (e.g., or at least encompassed by) the planar panorama image. As another illustrative example,  illustrates an example embodiment  where one or more portions of one or more techniques described herein may be implemented. In this example embodiment , a data tag  may comprise an icon and\/or a graphic (e.g., bus-stop sign), another data tag  may comprise an image (e.g., associated with an entity, captured at the location, etc.), and yet another data tag , , , may comprise a type of text box.","In one embodiment, a display size of a data tag may be determined based at least upon received POI data (e.g.,  of ). Further, in one embodiment, the display size of the data tag may be determined based at least upon a desired tag window size. As one example, a tag window may comprise a portion of a display, comprising the planar panorama image, in which the data tag may be rendered. The desired tag window size may comprise a dimension that accommodates the data tag, for example, in a manner that provides a desired display arrangement (e.g., taking up a desired portion of the display, in a desired font type and\/or tag size, etc.).","Further, as one example, the POI data used in the data tag may help determine the display size of the data tag. For example, text comprising a number of characters may utilize one size, while an image may utilize another size. As an illustrative example,  illustrates an example embodiment  where one or more portions of one or more techniques described herein may be implemented. In this example , the data tags comprise a larger display size than rendered in a previous display (e.g.,  of ). The font type and\/or font size, in this example, can help determine the display size for the data tag, where the larger font may result in a larger display size for the tag (e.g., and a smaller font resulting in a smaller sized tag).","Returning to , at , a geo-location can be identified for the respective one or more data tags created for the first view of the planar panorama image. As described above, the POI data  that is used for a data tag can also comprise a geo-location, for example. In one embodiment, the geo-location information from the POI data  may be compared with location information associated with the planar panorama image (e.g., captured at image capture).","As one example, when the imagery (e.g., a collection of relatively sequential images) used for the planar panorama image is collected (e.g., while traveling along a roadway comprising the imagery), geo-location information may also be collected (e.g., addresses, GPS data, etc.). In this example, the POI geo-location can be matched to imagery geo-location information to determine whether the POI may be located in the first view of the planar panorama image. If the POI geo-location associated with the data tag is located in the first view of the planar panorama image, an appropriate (e.g., approximate) location in the imagery for the data tag may be identified.","At , one or more cluster geo-locations may be determined for the one or more data tags. As one example, a cluster geo-location can comprise a location where one or more data tags may be clustered for the planar panorama image. In one embodiment, determining the cluster geo-location can comprise identifying a geo-location that is disposed between a first geo-location and a second geo-location, if the first geo-location and the second geo-location comprise different geo-locations. As an illustrative example, in , a cluster geo-location for Jan's and Ken's C may be located approximately in the middle between Jan's geo-location and Ken's geo-location. In this example, because the data tags for Jan's and Ken's C may have (at least partially) overlapped, obscured, etc. one another (e.g., due to their respective display sizes) if placed at their respective geo-locations in the planar panorama image , a cluster geo-location can be identified between the two.","In one embodiment, determining the cluster geo-location can comprise identifying a geo-location disposed at the first geo-location and the second geo-location, if the first geo-location and the second geo-location comprise a same geo-location. That is, for example, an office building may comprise a plurality of businesses, respectively comprising a same geo-location (e.g., address, GPS coordinate, etc.). In this example, the cluster geo-location may comprise the same geo-location as the respective POIs (e.g., businesses) in the data tags.","Returning to , at , the respective one or more data tags can be clustered at their respective cluster geo-locations. It may be appreciated that location data for a POI, data tag, etc., for example, in a planar panorama image may comprise a less than precise and\/or accurate location of the POI, data tag, etc. As an example, an address of a business may not always align precisely with a physical location of the business in an image (e.g., and\/or a digital map). That is, a POI geo-location that is matched to a geo-location of a corresponding object (e.g., building) in an image may be slightly offset, misaligned, etc. from the object due to imprecisions and\/or inaccuracies in the underlying data. Accordingly, clustering as provided herein may accommodate for such imprecisions and\/or inaccuracies to provide a satisfying user experience such as by providing approximate clustering locations. For example, a cluster geo-location located approximately midway between two (or more) POIs, data tags, etc. substantially obviates issues that may have arisen should the respective geo-locations for the POIs, data tags, etc. have been less than precise and\/or accurate (e.g., due to imprecisions and\/or inaccuracies in the underlying data). That is, because the POIs, data tags, etc. are located elsewhere from their respective geo-locations, issues related to imprecisions and\/or inaccuracies of these geo-locations are rendered substantially moot. At , the one or more clustered data tags can be rendered in the first view of the planar panorama image, such as at a corresponding geo-location. As an illustrative example, in , a first set of data tags are rendered at a first cluster geo-location A in the planar panorama image , a second set of data tags are rendered at a second cluster geo-location B, a third set of data tags are rendered at a third cluster geo-location C, and so-on (e.g., for remaining cluster geo-locations D-G).","In one embodiment, the clustering may be based at least upon the first zoom level (e.g., comprising the view of the planar panorama  in ). That is, for example, a zoomed-out view of the planar panorama, such as in , combined with the display size of the respective data tags, may be used to determine how the data tags are clustered. As one example, at cluster geo-location E, the geo-locations for Quinn's, Red's and Silvio's may be comprised within an area in the planar panorama  that comprises the display size of the data tags (e.g., the businesses Quinn's, Red's and Silvio's are located in the space covered by the display size of the tags). In this example, the respective data tags may overlap one another if they were not combined at the cluster geo-location E.","In one embodiment, the clustering can comprise rendering one or more data tags in a list form at or co-located with a corresponding cluster geo-location. As an illustrative example, in , the data tags are rendered in list form at the respective cluster geo-locations  (A-G). Further, in one embodiment, one or more of the data tags may be rendered outside of the planar panorama image. As an illustrative example, in , the respective data tags are co-located outside of the planar panorama image , at their corresponding cluster geo-locations  (A-G).","In one embodiment, the clustering can comprise rendering the one or more data tags in a non-list form, where the respective one or more data tags can comprise a pointer to a corresponding cluster geo-location. Further, in one embodiment, the rendering can comprise locating at least a portion of the respective data tags, over the planar panorama image. As an illustrative example, in , the example embodiment  comprises the planar panorama image , where data tags , , , ,  are rendered in a non-list form (e.g., text boxes, images, icons, text bubbles, etc.) at least partially over the planar panorama image , and where these data tags , , , ,  respectively comprise a pointer to their corresponding geo-locations (e.g., cluster geo-location).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 4B and 4C","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4C","FIG. 2","FIG. 4C"],"b":["300","302","350","352","304","430","460","430","432","402","430","432","460"]},"Returning to , at , the received image data  and received indication of the second zoom level  may be used to identify a second view for the planar panorama image. As an illustrative example, in , the planar panorama image  (e.g., the second view) comprises less street side imagery  than in the image  of . That is, in this example, because the planar panorama image  comprises a zoomed-in view, it comprise fewer objects, but more detail (e.g., comprising a right two-thirds (approximately) of the street side imagery  of ).","Returning to , at , POI data  for the second view of the planar panorama image can be received. As an example, the POI data  for the second view may comprise at least some (e.g., or all) of the POI data from a first view (e.g.,  of ), particularly if the second view comprises a zoomed in view from the first view (e.g., from  of  of ). As another example, the POI data  for the second view may comprise more data than that of the first view, if the second view comprises a zoomed-out view from the first view (e.g., from  of  of ). For example, as described above, the zoomed out view may comprise more street-side imagery (e.g.,  of ), comprising more objects, thereby potentially comprising more POIs.","At , one or more data tags for the second view of the planar panorama image can be created, and a geo-location for the respective one or more data tags can be identified, at . At , second view cluster geo locations may be determined, and the respective one or more data tags for the second view may be re-clustered at their corresponding cluster geo-locations at . As one example, re-clustering can comprise adding one or more data tags to a previous cluster of data tags, if the second zoom level is a zoomed-out view (e.g., comprising more street-level imagery in a similar space); or re-clustering can comprise separating one or more data tags from a previous cluster of data tags, if the second zoom level is a zoomed-in view of the planar panorama image (e.g., comprising less street-level imagery in a similar space).","In one embodiment, at least a third data tag (e.g., and more) may be re-clustered with a first data tag and a second data tag at the cluster geo-location, where the second zoom level comprises a zooming-out from the first zoom level. In this embodiment, the first and second data tags may have been clustered together at the cluster geo-location in the planar panorama imagery comprising the first zoom level. Further, the third data may be re-clustered at the cluster geo-location if a first geo-location for the first data tag, a second geo-location for the second data tag, and the third geo-location for the third data tag are disposed in an area of the planar panorama image that comprises a size of at least one of the data tags.","As an illustrative example, in , the first zoom level may comprise the planar panorama image  of , where a first and second data tag, Quinn's and Red's respectively, are clustered at a first cluster geo-location D. In this example, the second zoom level may comprise the (zoomed-out) planar panorama image  of , where a third data tag, Silvio's, is re-clustered at a second cluster geo-location E, with the first and second data tags, Quinn's and Red's. Further, in the example embodiment , the geo-location for Silvio's is comprised within the desired size of the data tags, Quinn's and Red's, in the planar panorama image , and, therefore, Silvio's is also re-clustered at the same cluster geo-location E as Quinn's and Red's.","In one embodiment, re-clustering can comprise locating the first data tag at the first geo-location and the second data tag at the second geo-location, if the second zoom level comprises a zooming-in from the first zoom level. Further, in this embodiment, the first data tag and the second data tags can be re-clustered at their respective geo-locations if the first geo-location and the second geo-location are not disposed in an area of the planar panorama image that comprises a desired size of the first data tag and\/or the second data tag, for example.","As an illustrative example, the first zoom level may comprise the planar panorama image  of , where the first and second data tags, Quinn's and Red's respectively, are clustered at the first cluster geo-location D. In this example, the second zoom level may comprise the (zoomed-in) planar panorama image  of , where the first data tag, Quinn's, is re-clustered at the first geo-location A, and the second data tag Red's is re-clustered at the second geo-location B. In this example, the respective first and second geo-locations A, B are no longer comprised within the area covered by the other's data tags, and can therefore be separated.","Returning to , at , the one or more data tags can be rendered in the second view of the planar panorama image. As an illustrative example, in , the respective data tags are rendered at their corresponding cluster geo-locations A-G. In one embodiment, the display to which the planar panorama image (e.g., ) is rendered may not be able to display the respective data tags clustered at a cluster geo-location. As an example, the cluster geo-location C comprises five data tags, and the respective cluster geo-locations F, G comprise three data tags. In this example, an indicator tag can be included at the cluster geo-location C, F, G that indicates to a user that the remaining, undisplayed data tags may be viewed by selecting the indicator tag. As an example, upon selecting the indicator tag, the respective data tags can be displayed over the planar panorama image .","As another illustrative example, in , a zoomed-in view of the planar panorama image  comprises the respective data tags at their corresponding cluster geo-locations . In one embodiment, where merely one data tag is clustered (e.g., or re-clustered) at a cluster geo-location, the cluster geo-location may correspond to the geo-location for the POI data associated with the data tag. As an example, the cluster geo-locations A-G, comprising their corresponding rendered data tags, correspond to the geo-location from the received POI for the data tag (e.g., the business location).","In one embodiment, the display size of one or more of the data tags may be adjusted. Adjusting the display size can comprise reducing the display size from a first zoom level (e.g., for the planar panorama image  of ) to a second zoom level (e.g., for the planar panorama image  of ) if the second zoom level comprises a zooming-out from the first zoom level. Further, adjusting the display size can comprise increasing the display size from a first zoom level (e.g., for the planar panorama image  of ) to a second zoom level (e.g., for the planar panorama image  of ) if the second zoom level comprises a zooming-in from the first zoom level. For example, the display size of the data tags at the respective geo-locations  (A-G) in the planar panorama image  is larger (e.g., larger font) than the (relative) display size of the data tags at the respective geo-locations  in the planar panorama  of .","A system may be devised that provides for clustering and re-clustering of point-of-interest (POI) data tags in a planar panorama image. POI data tags may comprise information that allows a viewer of the planar panorama image to distinguish or identify a particular POI in the image, for example, where the POI data tag is located relative to a geo-location of the POI in the image. When a zoom level of the image may result in overlapping POI data tags, and\/or obscuring of data, the data tags can be (re)clustered at a common cluster geo-location, which represents more than one geo-location. Further, when the image is zoomed in, the data tags may be re-clustered, and\/or separated according to their respective geo-locations in the image, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","600","604","604","652","650","652","650"]},"In one embodiment, at least one of the first POI data and the second POI data can comprise, among other things, an entity name (e.g., business, building, location, etc.) associated with a geo-location (e.g., an address, longitude, latitude, GPS coordinates, grid\/map coordinates, etc.). Further, the POI data may comprise entity metadata (e.g., descriptive information, contact information, etc.) for an entity associated with a geo-location. Additionally, the POI data may comprise update entity metadata (e.g., online reviews, check-ins, likes, ratings, status, event notices, schedules, advertisements, etc.) for an entity associated with a geo-location, and\/or update location metadata (e.g., status updates, check-ins, etc.) for a geo-location. It may be appreciated that some or all of the first POI data and\/or the second POI data may be received from an online network (e.g., the Internet).","In one embodiment, at least one of the first data tag and the second data tag can comprise, among other things, text comprising at least a portion of received POI data  associated with a data tag; an icon that may be representative of at least a portion of the received POI data  associated with a data tag; and\/or an image that may be representative of at least a portion of the received POI data  associated with a data tag. As an illustrative example, in , the received POI data may comprise an entity name, where the data tag comprises text, such as Silvio's  and\/or Tim's . Further, the received POI data may comprise update location metadata, such as a real-estate listing , comprising text. Additionally, the received POI data may comprise entity metadata, such as a bus schedule for a bus-stop , as an icon and text. Further, the received POI data may comprise update entity metadata, such as a text-based check-in  at Tim's , a text-based rating  at Val's, and\/or an image uploaded  at Red's.","Returning to , the exemplary system  comprises a clustering component , which is operably coupled with the data tag creation component . The clustering component  is configured to cluster the first data tag and second data tag  at a cluster geo-location in the planar panorama image , where the cluster geo-location is based at least upon a first geo-location, comprised in the first POI data , and a second geo-location, comprised in the second POI data . That is, for example, the clustered tags for the image  may be rendered at a same location in the planar panorama image, which is displayed to a viewer of the image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","700","700","710","758","710","758","710","758"]},"In one embodiment, the clustering component  can be configured to cluster  a first data tag and a second data tag  at the cluster geo-location  in the planar panorama image, from received image data , based at least upon a received indication of a first zoom level . Further, in one embodiment, the clustering component  can comprise a re-clustering component  that is configured to re-cluster  the first data tag and second data tag  based at least upon a received indication of a second zoom level .","In the example embodiment , a cluster rendering component  can be configured to render a cluster comprising one or more data tags, for example, corresponding to received POI data . The cluster can comprise the one or more data tags , which can be rendered in a resulting planar panorama image . In one embodiment, the cluster can comprise the one or more data tags in a list form at or co-located with a corresponding cluster geo-location (e.g., A of ). In one embodiment, the cluster can comprise the one or more data tags in a non-list form, where the one or more data tags are located at corresponding geo-locations. Further, in this embodiment, one or more data tags can respectively comprise a pointer to corresponding geo-locations in the planar panorama image (e.g., , ,  of ).","In one embodiment, the cluster rendering, performed by the cluster rendering component , can comprise locating one or more data tags outside of the planar panorama image (e.g.,  of ). Further, in one embodiment, the cluster rendering can comprise locating one or more data tags over the planar panorama image (e.g., ,  of ).","Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer-readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium  (e.g., a CD-R, DVD-R, or a platter of a hard disk drive), on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment , the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to perform a method, such as at least some of the exemplary method  of , for example. In another such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to implement a system, such as at least some of the exemplary system  of , for example. Many such computer-readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","912","912","916","918","918","914"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Further, At least one of A and B and\/or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A, 4B, and 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
