---
title: System and method for packaging electronic devices
abstract: In accordance with particular embodiments, a method for packaging electronic devices includes melting solder for a solder jet. The method additionally includes depositing the melted solder from the solder jet in a pattern on a first substrate of a first component of an electronic device. The pattern comprises a plurality of individual dots of melted solder. The method also includes aligning a second substrate of a second component of the electronic device with the pattern deposited on the first substrate of the electronic device. The method further includes re-melting the solder deposited in the pattern on the first substrate. The method additionally includes, while the solder is re-melting, compressing the first and second substrates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08393526&OS=08393526&RS=08393526
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08393526
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111014
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/405,561 filed Oct. 21, 2010.","Traditionally, techniques such as physical vapor deposition (PVD) of gold tin solder (e.g., sputtering or evaporation), plating, or attaching preforms were used to seal wafer level packaged electronic devices using solder. If one of the various PVD methods are used, the process may include extra processing steps (e.g., lithography for wet etch or lift-off) and the waste of expensive materials (e.g., the bulk of the deposited metals may be removed). The PVD methods also do not, as a practical matter, allow for very tall bond lines (typically less than 3 micrometers high). If plating is used to bond two components, it may not be possible to have a high vacuum inside the sealed device because plated metals are porous and have high outgassing characteristics. If preforms are used, they may be manually aligned and attached, resulting in extensive touch labor which can be expensive and inaccurate. Preforms may also be limited in size. Additionally, commercial wafer bonders for wafer level packaging may employ spacers in the order of 100 um-200 um to maintain a gap between the two substrates before actual bonding. This small gap may inhibit creating a high vacuum inside the sealed device due to a low vacuum conductance.","One common problem with many of the above methods is the high risk of blow-outs. Blow-outs may occur when the small change in cavity volume during the bonding process causes a large change in cavity pressure differential. This pressure differential may then attempt to escape by blowing out the melted solder. The blow-out could damage the seal and potentially short the electronic device being sealed.","In accordance with particular embodiments, a method for packaging electronic devices includes melting solder for a solder jet. The method additionally includes depositing the melted solder from the solder jet in a pattern on a first substrate of a first component of an electronic device. The pattern comprises a plurality of individual dots of melted solder. The method also includes aligning a second substrate of a second component of the electronic device with the pattern deposited on the first substrate of the electronic device. The method further includes re-melting the solder deposited in the pattern on the first substrate. The method additionally includes, while the solder is re-melting, compressing the first and second substrates.","Certain embodiments may provide one or more technical advantages. For example, a technical advantage of one embodiment may be that an electronic device can be hermetically sealed with a reduced risk of blow-outs. Another technical advantage of certain embodiments may be that the hermetic seal may be made without requiring masking materials, lithography or other processing steps to remove excess solder. This may decrease the manufacturing costs (both in materials and in time) associated with manufacturing the electronic device. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures, descriptions and claims. Moreover, while specific advantages have been enumerated above, various embodiments may include all, some, or none of the enumerated advantages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","160"]},"In the depicted embodiment, system  includes various components used in creating a hermetic seal for wafer level packaging of electronic devices. The system allows the hermetic seal to be formed within a high vacuum state. System  may be able to package electronic devices with high vacuum hermetic seals without the use of lithography or other steps to remove excess metals and materials used in typical packaging techniques such as sputtering, evaporation, and plating. System  may create the hermetic seals using a pattern of jetted solder dots deposited on one or more components of the electronic device. The dot pattern may provide small gaps that allow for changes in pressure as the components are compressed together. The spacing between solder dots may be based on the size of the solder dots and\/or the pattern (e.g., the final geometry of the pattern). As the solder dots melt and spread out, the gaps may begin to shrink and a hermetic seal is formed.","Hopper  may comprise any container, reservoir, hopper, or other device configured to hold solder, either melted or solid, for use by solder jet . The solder held in hopper  may include gold-tin solder (e.g., Au80-Sn20), tin-lead solder, tin-silver solder, tin-silver-copper solder, or any other type of solder that may be used with metal bonding (e.g., eutectic bonding). In some embodiments, the solder received by hopper  may already be melted when it is received by hopper . In such embodiments, hopper  may include a heating element to keep the melted solder in the melted state. In some embodiments, the solder received by hopper  may be in a solid state when it is received by hopper . In such embodiments, prior to the solder being deposited on substrate , the solder may be melted by hopper , solder jet , or some component between hopper  and solder jet . Depending on operational needs or parameters, the amount of solder in hopper  may vary. For example, in some situations, hopper  may store enough solder for packaging a single electronic device, a single pair of substrates with a plurality of electronic devices thereon, packaging a run of electronic devices, or several runs of electronic devices (e.g., bulk supply of solder).","Solder from hopper  may be used by solder jet  to deposit individual melted solder drops on substrate . In some embodiments in which hopper  contains unmelted solder, solder jet  may melt the solder before it deposits the solder on substrate . The individual melted solder dots jetted from solder jet  may be deposited in a controlled fashion on substrate in accordance with a particular pattern. Melted solder dots may be deposited as individual drops with gaps between at least some of the individual drops. The gaps may allow for changes in pressure, or volume, to escape through the pattern as a second substrate is compressed over the pattern deposited by solder jet  on substrate ","The pattern with which solder jet  deposits melted solder drops may depend on any of a variety of different characteristics of the electronic device being packaged. In some embodiments, the pattern may be based on a pattern template received by the solder jet  from a controller, such as controller . As another example, in some embodiments, solder jet  may be able to recognize and follow a pattern present on substrate . The pattern on substrate may be used as a base metal to which the solder may adhere to when melted. Any suitable base metal may be used, such as a stack of metals comprising Ti\/Pt\/Au or Ti\/NiV\/Au.","In some embodiments, the base metal may be present on substrate regardless of whether solder jet  relies on a template or the pattern to determine where to deposit melted solder dots ","Once melted solder dots have been deposited onto substrate , a second substrate having a second component of the electronic device may be aligned with the pattern deposited on substrate by alignment device . Substrate may be a substrate, similar to substrate , in which melted solder dots, similar to melted solder dots , have cooled. Substrate and substrate  are aligned and placed inside of a vacuum chamber . Vacuum chamber  may be able to create a vacuum and to increase the ambient temperature above the melting point of cooled solder dots . The vacuum created by vacuum chamber  may create a vacuum within the gap between component  and component . The spaces between cooled solder dots may allow for the pressure difference between vacuum chamber  and the gap between components  and to balance out or normalize. Heat created by vacuum chamber  may be sufficient to melt cooled solder dots ","In addition to aligning substrates and , alignment device  may be configured to apply pressure to compress substrates  and . The pressure provided by alignment device  may be used to compress the volume of the gap between substrates  and . In some embodiments, the compressive force may be gravity pulling on the upper substrate (e.g., component ). Regardless of the source of the compressive force, as cooled solder dots begin to melt from the increased temperature of vacuum chamber , the pressure may cause the now melting solder to spread out. As the compressive force compresses the gap between components  and , any change in pressure due to the change in the volume of the gap may escape through the gaps between solder dots . Eventually, solder dots will form into a single continuous band that spreads out along the base pattern formed on the components. The melted solder may form a hermetic seal between components  and . In some embodiments, the formation of the hermetic seal may be delayed until the end of the bonding process. This may allows the rise in pressure of the internal cavity to be vented prior to the final sealing moment to prevent blow-outs of the solder. Because the hermetic seal was formed while the components were in a state of vacuum, the gap between the components may similarly be in a vacuum. This may allow the corresponding electronic device to be hermetically sealed in a high vacuum wafer level packaged device.","Controller  may be any type of computer or control system that may comprise any combination of hardware components with software and\/or logic encoded in a non-transitory computer readable medium for execution by a processor. Controller  may be configured to control any of the components of system . For example, controller  may control solder jet  and the depositing of melted solder dots on substrate . As another example, controller  may control alignment device  and the alignment of components  and . As another example, controller  may control the vacuum and temperature of vacuum chamber . In certain embodiments, controller  may allow a user to simply and easily change the pattern with which solder is deposited on a component device. For example, controller  may allow a user to simply load a new pattern template. Depending on the embodiment, controller  may be a single controller responsible for all the components of system ; multiple independent controllers for different components of system ; or multiple controllers operating under one or more master controllers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIGS. 2A-2D"],"b":["210","220","230","220","240","240","220","230","220","230"]},"Column  may comprise a stack of solder dots . Column  may be formed by stacking solder dots  one atop the other until column  is of a desired height. In some embodiments, column  may be higher than solder dots  deposited around pattern . In such an embodiment, column  may be one of multiple columns spread out over other portions of the substrate. The columns may form support structures that may create a larger gap between the two components of the two substrates that are to be sealed together. This may help in normalizing the pressure as the two components are being sealed in a vacuum. In some embodiments, solder dots  may be stacked in a predetermined pattern so that column  may provide the desired pre-bond gap (e.g., in excess of 300 um). In some embodiments, during the bonding process, the two substrates may be held apart due to the height of column . The resulting gap may be maintained throughout the bake-out and vacuum cycle. In some embodiments, during the final sealing stage, column  may melt along with the sealing solder allowing the substrates to come to contact and bond.","Solder dots  may comprise fluxless solder that has been deposited on pattern  by a solder jet, such as solder jet  described above with respect to . When solder dots  are reheated and the solder is melted and reflows around pattern , the remelted solder may form a continuous solid bond line that may seal the device within pattern . The gaps between the individual solder dots , prior to fully melting, may provide passageways through which the pressure within pattern  and outside pattern  may normalize as a second component of the electronic device is aligned with the pattern  and the two are compressed together.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["260","220","210","250","260","210","230","230","250","270","210","260","270","270","210","260","230","230","230","270","210","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2C","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["230","235","210","260","275","210","260","270"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2D","b":["295","235","240","295","295"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","150","160","110","120","140"]},"Controller  may include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments, one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software stored in a non-transitory medium and running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provide functionality described or illustrated herein.","The components of controller  may comprise any suitable physical form, configuration, number, type and\/or layout. As an example, and not by way of limitation, controller  may comprise an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, controller  may include one or more computer systems; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.","Where appropriate, one or more components of controller  may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example, and not by way of limitation, controller  may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more controllers may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.","In the depicted embodiment, controller  includes processor , storage , interface , and bus . These components may work together in general to manage the wafer level packaging of electronic devices in which a hermetic seal is formed using jetted solder. Although a particular controller  is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable controller  having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.","Processor  may be a microprocessor, controller, application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or any other suitable computing device, resource, or combination of hardware with encoded software and\/or embedded logic operable to provide, either alone or in conjunction with other components, (e.g., storage ) controller functionality. Such functionality may include directing a solder jet to deposit a pattern of melted solder dots onto a substrate of a component of an electronic device. Another example of controller functionality may include aligning two components of an electronic device such that the solder dots deposited, when re-melted, form a hermitic seal between the two components. Additional examples and functionality provided, at least in part, by processor  will be discussed below.","In particular embodiments, processor  may include hardware for executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor  may retrieve (or fetch) instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, or storage ; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, or storage .","In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation, processor  may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in storage  and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in storage  for instructions executing at processor  to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor  for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor , or for writing to storage ; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual-address translations for processor . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. Depending on the embodiment, processor  may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor  may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; include one or more processors ; or any other suitable processor.","Storage  may include any form of volatile or non-volatile memory including, without limitation, magnetic media, optical media, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, removable media, or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments, storage  may include random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate. Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM, or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Storage  may include one or more memory or data storage modules, where appropriate. Storage  may store any suitable data or information utilized by controller , including software embedded in a non-transitory computer readable medium, and\/or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored (e.g., firmware). In particular embodiments, storage  may include main memory for storing instructions for processor  to execute or data for processor  to operate on. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) may reside between processor  and storage  and facilitate accesses to storage  requested by processor .","In particular embodiments, storage  may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage  may include a hard disk drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or an external drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage  may include components internal or external to controller , where appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage  may include non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments, storage  may include read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage  may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor  and storage , where appropriate.","As an example and not by way of limitation, controller  may load instructions from one component of storage  (e.g., a hard-disk drive) or another source (such as, for example, another computer system) to another component of storage  (e.g., system memory). Processor  may then load the instructions from storage  to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor  may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor  may write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor  may then write one or more of those results to storage . In particular embodiments, processor  may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in a particular portion of storage  and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in a particular portion of storage .","In particular embodiments, interface  may include hardware, encoded software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between controller  and any components or devices used in packaging electronic devices (e.g., any components depicted in ), any users responsible for managing the packaging of electronic devices, any networks or network devices, and\/or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication interface  may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network and\/or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.","In some embodiments, interface  may include one or more interfaces for one or more I\/O devices. One or more of these I\/O devices may enable communication between an operator or user and controller . As an example and not by way of limitation, an I\/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touchscreen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I\/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I\/O device may include one or more sensors. For example, an I\/O device may include a scanner configured to recognize a metal base pattern on a substrate of a component of an electronic device. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and\/or number of I\/O devices and any suitable type and\/or number of interfaces  for them. Where appropriate, interface  may include one or more drivers enabling processor  to drive one or more of these I\/O devices.","Depending on the embodiment, interface  may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network. As an example, and not by way of limitation, interface  may be used to send and receive data in an ad-hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or through one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may use standard or proprietary protocols. Interface  may be able to communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a Wi-Fi network, a WI-MAX network, an LTE network, an LTE-A network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Controller  may include any suitable number of any suitable type of interface  for any one or more of networks and\/or I\/O devices, where appropriate.","Bus  may include any combination of hardware, software embedded in a computer readable medium, and\/or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored (e.g., firmware) to couple the components of controller  to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation, bus  may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus  may include any number, type, and\/or configuration of buses , where appropriate. In particular embodiments, one or more buses  (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor  to storage . Bus  may include one or more memory buses.","Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible and non-transitory computer-readable storage media possessing structures. As an example, and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, a flash memory card, a flash memory drive, or any other suitable tangible computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se) to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101.","Particular embodiments may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor  (such as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of storage , or a combination of these, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments, one or more computer-readable storage media embody encoded software.","Herein, reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate, that have been stored or encoded in a computer-readable storage medium. In particular embodiments, encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces (APIs) stored or encoded in a computer-readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer-readable storage media. In particular embodiments, encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments, encoded software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments, encoded software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments, encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments, encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.","The following explanation may provide additional detail as to some ways in which certain components of controller  may provide particular features. In particular, the components of controller  may work together in order to control the packaging of electronic devices (e.g., MEMs devices, FPA microbolometers, etc.), in accordance with particular embodiments. For example, interface  may be used to receive pattern messages from, for example, a user. The pattern messages may comprise a pattern template or otherwise be indicative of a pattern with which a solder jet is to deposit melted solder dots on a substrate of a component of an electronic device. In some embodiments, interface  may receive user input (e.g., dimensions) creating the pattern through controller .","The pattern or pattern message may then be stored in storage . In some embodiments, storage  may store several patterns. Each pattern may be associated with a different component of an electronic device and\/or different electronic devices. Processor  may use the stored pattern to generate commands for one or more devices used in the wafer level packaging of the electronic device. For example, based on the pattern, processor  may generate a solder command for a solder jet. The solder command may comprise one or more instructions that the solder jet may use in determining where to deposit melted solder dots.","Storage  may also include a table, chart, database, or other organization of data that may specify different settings, materials or components to use for different electronic devices. For example, for each electronic device, a table (or other organization of data) may specify a pattern to use, one or more types of solder to use, a corresponding temperature to use to melt the solder, the vacuum level that the electronic device is to be packaged in, a time value that the electronic device is to be heated and\/or placed within the vacuum, an amount of compressive force to apply between the two components of an electronic device, and\/or any other information that may be used in packaging the electronic device. Processor  may use this information to generate one or more commands for the appropriate device or component. For example, the information may be used to generate a heating command specifying how hot a heating element is to get in order to re-melt the solder dots that may be deposited on the substrate of one component of an electronic device. As another example, the information stored by storage  may be used by processor  to determine and generate at least one pressure command for the vacuum chamber. This may allow for different vacuum levels to be used with different electronic devices.","In some embodiments, interface  may receive information from one or more sensors. This sensor input may comprise feedback or other information that processor  may use in generating commands. For example, a sensor input related to the relative positions of the two components of an electronic device may be used to generate alignment commands for an alignment device configured to align the components. The sensor input may also include a sensor configured to recognize a pattern on a substrate. Processor  may use the information to generate commands for a solder jet to follow the pattern. The sensor input may also include temperature and vacuum readings which processor  may use in generating temperature or vacuum commands to adjust the temperature or vacuum, where appropriate. Other sensors may be used for generating other commands.","Thus far, several different embodiments and features have been presented. Particular embodiments may combine one or more of these features depending on operational needs and\/or component limitations. This may allow for great adaptability of controller  to the needs of various organizations and users. Some embodiments may include additional features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","410"]},"At step , solder is melted. The solder may be melted prior to being jetted on the component substrate. Melting the solder may comprise bringing the solder to a liquid state such that a jet nozzle of a solder jet is able to deposit the solder on a component substrate. The solder may be melted by the solder jet used to deposit the solder on the component substrate, by a hopper associated with the solder jet and used to store the solder, and\/or by a heating element functionally located before the hopper or between the hopper and the solder jet. The type of solder used may vary depending on operational needs, pattern specifications, and\/or the desired performance characteristics for the electronic device. For example, in some embodiments, the solder may comprise a mixture of 80% gold and 20% tin, or any other fluxless solder.","At step , the melted solder is deposited in a pattern on a substrate of a first component of an electronic device. The melted solder may be deposited as a plurality of individual melted solder dots. In some embodiments, the solder may be deposited with gaps between all or some of the deposited solder dots. The solder dots may cool and re-solidify upon being deposited on the component substrate. In some embodiments melted solder dots may be deposited upon one another to increase the thickness or height of deposited melted solder dots. Because the solder is deposited as dots, there may exist many small gaps between the individual dots. These gaps may provide a passage for changing pressure to escape without causing blow-outs. The melted solder dots may be deposited on a metal pattern that is formed in the substrate of the first component of the electronic device. A corresponding metal pattern may be formed in the substrate of a second component of the electronic device. The metal pattern or patterns may be used as a base to which the solder may adhere when it is re-melted. In some embodiments, the melted solder may be deposited on both the first and the second components of the electronic device.","At step , additional melted solder is deposited in the pattern. For example, if the component substrate has multiple electronic devices thereon, additional melted solder may be deposited in columns at various points of the substrate. The columns may be separated from any of the electronic devices that are to be hermetically sealed. The additional solder deposited in the pattern may be used to increase the height of the melted solder dots deposited on the component substrate. In some embodiments, the additional height may be used to create a vacuum conductance gap between the two components of the electronic device. In some embodiments, the increased height may improve vacuum conductance during wafer level packaging. The vacuum conductance gap may form a path through which changes in pressure may be channeled. This may allow for a higher vacuum to be created in the hermetically sealed portion of the electronic device. In some embodiments, the additional solder used to create the conductance gap may be separate from the solder used to form one or more of the hermetic seals. In certain embodiments the additional solder may be deposited higher than the solder deposited for the seal. In certain embodiments, the columns may comprise a different type of solder than the solder used for the hermetic seal.","At step  the first and second components of the electronic device are placed in a vacuum chamber. The vacuum chamber may be able create a high vacuum environment in which the two components are sealed together. For example, the vacuum chamber may create a vacuum of between ambient pressure and 10torrs.","At step  the second component of the electronic device is aligned with the pattern of jetted solder on the first component of the electronic device. In some embodiments, the substrate of the second component may have a metal pattern, similar to the pattern of deposited solder dots on the first component. This metal pattern may be aligned with the pattern of solder dots to provide a material with which the solder can bond to when the solder is re-melted. In some embodiments, the first and second components may be part of two wafers. In such an embodiments, step  may comprise aligning the wafers such that each pattern of deposited solder dots deposited on the first wafer is aligned with a corresponding metal pattern on the second wafer. In some embodiments, the second component may be aligned with the first component within a vacuum chamber. In some embodiments, the two components may be aligned prior to being placed in the vacuum chamber.","At step , the first and second components of the electronic device are compressed. In some embodiments, the compression may be applied by gravity due to the weight of the upper component. In some embodiments, the compression may be applied by a device, such as alignment device , configured to apply pressure to one or both of the components of the electronic device.","At step , the solder is re-melted. As the solder dots begin to melt the solder may begin to spread out. In some instances the solder may tend to spread along the metal base patterns in the substrates of the two components of the electronic device. As the solder spreads, the height of the solder may shrink causing the gap between the two components to decrease. This may decrease the volume of space between the two components. In a typical packaging scenario that does not use solder dots, the change in pressure due to the change in volume has an increased chance of creating blow-outs. However, the gaps between the solder of dots deposited at step  provide channels with which the change in pressure is able to escape. This may decrease the chances of a blow-out.","The solder may continue to melt until it is completely melted. The melted solder may then cool and form a hermetic seal between the first component and the second component as shown at step . Because the only solder used in making the hermetic seal is the solder that was deposited by the solder jet, the hermetic seal at step  may be formed without requiring any lithography or other processing steps to remove excess materials or masking materials. This may decrease the manufacturing costs (both in the cost of materials and in the time necessary to manufacture the electronic device) associated with the electronic device. In some embodiments, the electronic device being hermetically sealed may be an infrared detector comprising a plurality of microbolometers.","Some of the steps illustrated in  may be combined, modified or deleted where appropriate, and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Additionally, steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments. The steps depicted in  are just an example of the steps performed for a particular embodiment, other embodiments may use different steps arranged in a different order. For example, in some embodiments, the solder may be deposited on the substrate of the first component by following the pattern of the base metal in the substrate. In such an embodiment, step  may be modified because the pattern template may be received via the pattern in the substrate. As another example, in some embodiments the two components of the electronic device may be aligned before being placed in the vacuum chamber. This may result in switching the order of steps  and .","Although particular embodiments have been described in detail, it should be understood that various other changes, substitutions, combinations and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure or the appended claims. It is intended that particular embodiments encompass all such changes, substitutions, variations, alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included in a system configured to produce wafer level packaged electronic devices, these elements may be combined, rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular production needs. In addition, any of the elements described herein with respect to any figure may be provided as integrated internal or separate external components to each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of particular embodiments and their advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
