---
title: Social caller ID with reverse look-up
abstract: Methods and systems directed to a social caller ID application that performs a reverse look up on an incoming communication to determine a specific member of a social networking system associated with the incoming communication, and, based on the social relationship between the detected member and the recipient of the communication, display particular information to the recipient. In this manner, a user is provided a caller ID system that leverages information stored remotely on a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544425&OS=09544425&RS=09544425
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09544425
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110822
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["The present disclosure relates generally to integration of profile information stored remotely at a social networking system into a caller identification system.","The advent of social networking and ubiquitous wireless data networks allows a user of the social network to remotely retrieve an enormous amount of profile data for his or her contacts, or friends, on the social network with little to no latency. Until relatively recently, accessing wireless data through a mobile carrier's packet-switched network while receiving a call over their circuit-switched network was impossible; however, technological advancements have made simultaneous wireless voice and data calls possible. Traditional directory service-based caller ID systems lack access to important data that is available on the social networking system. Furthermore, directory-based caller ID systems, even having access to profile data, have no means for differentiating whom to display profile information, nor any means of differentiating what profile data is relevant to a user. Typically, users have only a brief amount of time to read caller ID data before deciding whether to answer the call.","The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.","Overview","Particular embodiments relate to a caller ID application that pulls profile information from a social networking system. The caller ID application determines whether the incoming caller is also a friend of the user account associated with the mobile or computing device, and depending on whether the caller is a friend, displays various information that is deemed to be relevant to the user receiving the call.","Implementations of the present invention extend these concepts by allowing a caller ID application to make the determination locally, or send all caller source data to the server for the server to make the determination. Furthermore, even in the scenario where the caller is not a friend of the member of the social network, the social networking system may still pull public profile information for display to the user receiving the call. Further, when the incoming number is not associated with any particular user, but a hub page representing a business, the social network may also pull information from the hub page for display to the user. Thus the application provides a user receiving a call immediate, socially relevant information that he or she may reference during the call, or to decide whether to accept the call.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","180","300","190","210","310","300","200","180","180","180","180","180","310","180","200"]},"Client device  interacts with external websites  and other service providers  through a web browser residing on the client device, or a dedicated application local to client device . For example, client device  may interact with third-party instant VoIP service , such as Google Voice\u2122 or Skype\u2122, by visiting and logging into their account via a web browser, or by installing and running a dedicated application. The same applies for video calls via third-party service providers  such as Apple FaceTime\u2122 or Tango. This disclosure contemplates any type of third-party service provider  connected to network  or PSTN .","A user of the client device  interacts with the social networking system  via an application, such as a web browser or a native application, to perform operations such as browsing content, posting and sending messages, retrieving and sorting messages received from other users, and the like. Messages can be in any electronic message format such as electronic mail (\u201ce-mail\u201d) messages, chat messages, comments left on a user's webpage, and short message service (SMS) text messages. Messages can contain plain text, or they can contain other content such as pictures, videos, and attachments. Each user has a mailbox that includes messages that are both sent and received by the user. Client device  may also use an application or browser to pull and view profile information for various user nodes and hubs in social networking system .","Client device , connected through wireless network , may also interact with other client devices through the circuit-switched, or non-data, portion of wireless network . For example, a user at client device  may transmit and receive a non-VoIP call to a cellular phone or landline in PSTN , transmit and receive a text or multi-media message through the SMS or MMS channels, or receive push notifications through the SMS control channel.","Additionally, the third party website  can also interact with the social networking system  via a system-provided application programming interface (API) . For example, the third party website can perform operations supported by the API, such as delivering messages to the social network system , retrieving messages stored by the social networking system , and obtaining social information about users of the social networking system .","The social networking system  comprises an object store , and a graph information store . The object store  stores information on objects, such as users, represented in or by the social networking environment . The graph information store  stores information on the relationships of the objects in the object store .","In particular embodiments, the social graph information includes a first set of user nodes that each correspond to a respective user, and a second set of concept nodes that each correspond to a respective concept. As used herein, a \u201cuser\u201d may be an individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. As used herein, a \u201cconcept\u201d may refer to virtually anything that a user may declare or otherwise demonstrate an interest in, a like towards, or a relationship with, such as, by way of example, a sport, a sports team, a genre of music, a musical composer, a hobby, a business (enterprise), an entity, a group, a third party application, a celebrity, a person who is not a registered user, etc. In particular embodiments, each node has, represents, or is represented by, a corresponding web page (\u201cprofile page\u201d) hosted or accessible in the social network environment.","By way of example, a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user can add content, make declarations, and otherwise express him or herself, while a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page (\u201chub\u201d) in which a plurality of users can add content, make declarations, and express themselves, particularly in relation to the concept. In particular embodiments, the social graph information further includes a plurality of edges that each define or represent a connection between a corresponding pair of nodes in the social graph. In particular embodiments, profile information for user nodes is stored in user store , while hub page information for concepts, such as businesses, is stored in hubs store . Nodes directly connected by a friend edge are considered one degree of separation away, and are listed as \u201cfriends\u201d on the social network. Users of the social network may specify elements or portions of their profile which may be viewed only by friends, or friends of friends (second degree contacts). In particular embodiments, users may define privacy settings that only allow certain groups or individual members of the social network to view portions of their profile. For further detail on hubs, please see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/763,171 titled, \u201cIntegrated Social Network Environment,\u201d previously filed on Apr. 19, 2010 and fully incorporated by reference herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["180","100","200"]},"Caller ID screen  includes a photo  of the incoming caller pulled from user store . In particular embodiments, photo  is the profile picture for the incoming caller. In particular embodiments, photo  is a random photo pulled from the incoming caller's photos. In particular embodiments, photo  is a photo that the incoming caller has been tagged in.","Caller ID screen  also includes the incoming caller's name  and socially relevant data -that the user may quickly skim when deciding whether to accept or reject the call. Socially relevant data  is anything that may be pertinent to the user to discuss on the call. For example, if the incoming caller's birthday is within a predetermined amount of time, for example, one week, a reminder is displayed. As another example, a change in relationship status, such as from \u201cin a relationship\u201d to \u201cengaged\u201d, may be relevant to the user so that he may congratulate the caller. Conversely, a relationship status change from \u201cin a relationship\u201d to \u201csingle\u201d may be an event that the user may want to express condolences or general excitement about. Generally speaking, any new data added to a profile may be considered \u201csocially relevant.\u201d For example, if the caller recently added a new employer to his or her profile, there is a high probability that the caller recently started a new job. The caller ID screen may also list the name of the person the caller is in a relationship with, as in . Thus, the user is assisted in making small talk and other pleasantries. In particular embodiments, Caller ID screen  includes the names and ages of the caller's children.","Finally, caller ID screen  displays locations that the user has checked-in to within a predetermined amount of time. For example, shows that John Smith checked-in to The Old Pro 1 hour ago. The user may find this data socially relevant in order to coordinate a physical meeting with John Smith, or to make later plans. The display of check-in information is constrained both temporally and geographically. For example, it is not relevant if the caller has checked into a location over 2 days ago. As another example, if the user is determined through location-based services to be in San Francisco, a check-in in New York or Los Angeles by the caller is not socially relevant to the user. In particular embodiments, check-in lists how many of the user's friends, if any, are also at the same location.","Because of the short amount of time a user has to answer (through input ) or reject (through input ) a phone call before it is dropped, goes to voicemail, or the caller gives up, the amount of socially relevant data  should be accordingly constrained to a high-pressure situation. As a general principle, only data which is pertinent to the user, easily read, and digested should be displayed.","In particular embodiments, privacy information is respected by the application generating Caller ID screen . For example, if the caller has put the user on a limited profile that does not allow the user to see his relationship status, that setting will be respected and not displayed to the user. The only information that the user is displayed is information the user has been granted permission by the calling member to view.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","180","100","180","300","301","302","303","100","300","300"]},"Accordingly, for callers who are members of social networking system , but not friends of the user account associated with the mobile device, a second set of profile data akin to a business card is displayed to the user. For example, in , Caller ID screen  includes the position the caller holds, and the company  where the caller holds his or her position. In this example, Carlos Delgado holds the position of \u201cPromoter\u201d at \u201cInfuzion Nightlife.\u201d In particular embodiments, caller ID screen  includes geographic information such as where the caller lives . In particular embodiments, caller ID screen  also displays socially relevant data, such as the number of mutual friends  between the user and the caller. Thus the recipient of the call (the user of client device ) may, from the caller's profile photo, profession, company, and the number of mutual friends, appropriately decide whether to decline or reject the incoming call through input . Alternatively, the user may accept the incoming communication through input .","As above, only information the user is authorized to the member to view, is displayed in Caller ID screen . Because the user and the caller are not friends on the social network, this is generally limited to information that the caller has made publicly visible on his or her profile page. In particular embodiments, the caller may have made information visible to member of specific networks, such as his or her alma mater or geographic location. The application generating caller ID screen  respects privacy settings so that only what would be viewable by the user normally, such as through visiting the calling member's profile page, is visible in caller ID screen .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","180","100"]},"Caller ID screen  includes a picture  of the business or node owner. In particular embodiments, picture  is the profile picture for the hub. In particular embodiments, caller ID screen  includes the name of the business  or hub owner (in this case, \u201cThe Old Pro\u201d) and its phone number . In particular embodiments, caller ID screen  also includes socially relevant data, such as, for example, the number of friends of the user who have \u201cliked\u201d the hub , and the number of friends who have or are currently checked-in to the hub . In particular embodiments, socially relevant information such as ongoing deals or promotions  in displayed in caller ID screen , such as the example promotion \u201c2 for beers from 4-7 PM.\u201d Additionally, in particular embodiments, a map  to the business or location associated with the hub may be displayed. In particular embodiments, the address of the business may be displayed in lieu or in addition to a map. In particular embodiments, this map is selectable and can provide a link to navigation instructions or other actions by client device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["200","300","400","180","100","501","180"]},"At Step , client device  transmits the calling number and the user of client device 's social networking user ID. In particular embodiments, the user of client device  associates a social networking user ID with client device  when he or she first uses the device, and the user ID is transmitted through a specialized application on client device . In other embodiments, the user ID is explicitly transmitted in all transmissions to the social networking system . In other embodiments, the user ID is associated on the server-side of the social networking system with a client device identifier, such as a phone number, IMSI, IMEI, or the like. Regardless, the social networking system associates client device  with a particular member, called the \u201cuser\u201d in this disclosure for purposes of simplicity. For the purposes of , the identifier transmitted to the server identifying the incoming communication is a phone number, but this disclosure contemplates all other means of identifying an incoming communication, such as a username for a third-party service such as Skype, Google Voice, or FaceTime, an e-mail address for an incoming e-mail, and the like.","At step , an application residing on one or more servers of social networking system  receives the calling number (or other identifier) and the user identifier associated with client device . At Step , the application residing on the social networking system 's servers performs a reverse lookup of the incoming caller number with all the members of the social networking system. User store  and hubs store  may store phone numbers in conjunction with particular members or concept nodes of the social network. The application attempts to match the number with a number existing in user store  or concept store . After finding a match, the application looks up the social networking user identifier for the user or concept node associated with the number. In particular embodiments, user phone numbers (or other identifiers) may be stored by the user on his or her own profile, or alternatively, by a first user, in the online phonebook of the first user, for, and in conjunction with a second user. Naturally, in such a scenario, the reverse look-up would return the user ID of the second user. In particular embodiments, the IDs represent user or concept nodes in the social graph.","At Step , the application residing on one or more of the servers of social networking system  access the graph network store to determine the relationship, if any, between the called user node and the calling node. If there is a first degree connection between the calling ID and the called user ID, the application determines that the calling party and the called party are friends, and proceeds to step . At step , a first data set is generated. In particular embodiments, the data set corresponds to the data displayed in .","If the application determines that there is no connection between the calling node and the called user node, the process proceeds to Step , where a second data set is generated. In particular embodiments, the second data set corresponds to the data displayed in , or, if the calling node is a concept node, the data displayed in . If the server determines from the social graph that the calling node is a user node, and there are second-degree connections between the calling node and the called node, it may include a number and list of these mutual friends in the data set. In particular embodiments, if the server determines from the social graph that the calling node is a concept node, and that there are second degree edge connections between the calling concept node and the called user node, it may include a number and list of friends who have expressed an affinity (either through reviewing, commenting, or \u201cliking\u201d the concept node) in the data set. In this fashion, the server determines what data to include in the data set based off social graph relationships between the calling node and the called node. After the application generates the data set, in Step  it is transmitted back to the client.","After receiving the data set in step , client device  displays the data set to the user as depicted in . The method of  relies on relatively fast data transfer rates between mobile device  and social networking system . However, in many scenarios, mobile device  does not have a sufficiently fast data connection to deliver the identification information and download the data sets in a meaningful time. For instance, a phone may ring only a total of 10 seconds before the caller hangs up, or the system sends the caller to voice mail.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["180","601","180"]},"At , client device  performs a reverse lookup in the user's contacts, much as a traditional caller ID system would. However, where contacts are also linked to a user ID of a member of social networking system , the reverse lookup returns the user ID, rather than a contact name entered by the user.","If the reverse look-up yields a matching social network user identifier, the flow proceeds to step , where mobile device looks for cached profile data for the identified user ID. If cached data is available, a data set is generated and displayed to the user. In particular embodiments, the data set resembles the data required to display caller ID screen .","Profile data may be cached in a variety of methods. In particular embodiments, mobile device  is constantly downloading data from the user's friends' profiles in the background. However, this method is expensive from a battery life and radio resources standpoint. In particular embodiments, the profile data is downloaded only the first time a user visits the social networking system through client device . In particular embodiments, mobile device  keeps a timestamp of the last download of profile data, and only downloads profiles that have been updated since the last update. In particular embodiments, each individual element of user profiles are time stamped, and only the individual elements, such as job or relationship status, are downloaded. In particular embodiments, client device  knows that certain elements of profiles do not change, such as birthday, hometown, educational information, etc., and bypasses updating those elements. This disclosure contemplates any method of caching profile data in client device .","If the reverse look-up operation at Step  and Step  does not yield a corresponding user ID, mobile device  at Step  transmits the calling party's number and the called party's social networking identifier to social networking system . From here, the method is substantially identical to the purely server-side processing of .","In Step , the application at social networking system  performs a reverse look-up. There is a possibility that the number is not associated with any node in the social network, and at Step , if such a determination is made, the process ends. If, however, the application determines a social networking identifier, representing a node in the social graph, associated with the calling party's number, the application at Step  accesses social graph store  to determine whether there is a first-degree friend connection between the called user node and calling node. If there is a connection, indicating that the two user nodes are friends, the application, at Step , pulls a first set of data from user store . In particular embodiments, the data set corresponds to the data displayed in .","If the calling node and the called user node lack a first-degree friend connection, the method proceeds to Step . The application then pulls a different set of data for display. In particular embodiments, if the calling node is a user, the application pulls data as displayed in . In particular embodiments, if the calling node is a concept node, the application pulls the data displayed in .","Regardless of what data is pulled, the data set is transmitted to client device  in Step , and displayed at client device  at Step . In the case that, in Step , mobile device  recognizes that the incoming number is associated with a friend on the social network, but no pre-cached data exists in its memory, the method proceeds to step . Client device  may lack pre-cached data for a friend for a variety of reasons. For example, it is possible that the friend was recently added, and client device has not yet had a chance to pull the data. In other cases, the pre-cached data for a particular friend is too old, or did not exist in the friend's profile at the time. Regardless, having determined in Step  that no pre-cached data exists for the given friend, client device in Step  translates the friend's social networking identifier to the server, obviating the need for the server to perform a reverse look-up on the number.","Because the server has received a User ID, it knows that client device  has already determined that the two users nodes are connected by a friend edge, and immediately pulls the first data set in Step . In particular embodiments, the first data set comprises the data required to generate social caller ID screen . At Step , the data set is transmitted back to client device  for display at Step .","As is evident from the foregoing examples, the methods of  break all incoming callers (or communicators) into four distinct groups: 1.) callers who are friends with the user on the social network; 2.) callers who are members of the social network but are not friends with the user; 3.) callers who are associated with businesses or other concept node hubs on the social network; and 4.) non members of the social network. Each of these four categories receives a different data set (though category 4 receives no data whatsoever). In this way, the user is quickly presented with the most socially relevant information to him or her while the client device  is ringing. The social relevance of data is determined by the types, degree, and number of connections between the calling node and the called node in the social graph. Therefore, different types of data and different elements are displayed to the called user based upon the social graph relationship between the user's node and the calling party's node. The user experience is thus greatly enhanced.","While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations, the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic, and not limiting, purposes.  illustrates an example network environment . Network environment  includes a network  coupling one or more servers  and one or more clients  to each other. Network environment  also includes one or more data storage  linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example, a social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example, event database  may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments, network  is an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, or another network  or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network . One or more links  couple a server  or a client  to network . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes one or more wired, wireless, or optical links  or networks.","In particular embodiments, each server  may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers  may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server, exchange server, database server, or proxy server. In particular embodiments, each server  may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server .","In particular embodiments, one or more data storages  may be communicatively linked to one or more servers  via one or more links . In particular embodiment, each data storage  may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers  or clients  to manage, e.g., retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data storage .","In particular embodiments, each client  may be an electronic device including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation, a client  may be a desktop computer system, a notebook computer system, a netbook computer system, a handheld electronic device, or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client  may enable a network user at client  to access network . A client  may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .","A client  may have a web browser , and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions. A user at client  may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other address directing the web browser  to a server , and the web browser  may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server  may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client  one or more Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client  may render a web page based on the HTML files from server  for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files Herein, reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files (which a browser may use to render the web page) and vice versa, where appropriate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","800","800","800","800","800"]},"In particular embodiments, computer system  includes a processor , memory , storage , an input\/output (I\/O) interface , a communication interface , and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.","In particular embodiments, processor  includes hardware for executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor  may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage ; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.","In particular embodiments, memory  includes main memory for storing instructions for processor  to execute or data for processor  to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may load instructions from storage  or another source (such as, for example, another computer system ) to memory . One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor  to memory . Bus  may include one or more memory buses, as described below. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.","In particular embodiments, storage  includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage  may include an HDD, a flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage  may be internal or external to computer system , where appropriate. This disclosure contemplates mass storage  taking any suitable physical form. Where appropriate, storage  may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.","In particular embodiments, I\/O interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system  and one or more I\/O devices. One or more of these I\/O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . This disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O devices and any suitable I\/O interfaces  for them. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I\/O interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O interface.","In particular embodiments, communication interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system  and one or more other computer systems  or one or more networks. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface  for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.","In particular embodiments, bus  includes hardware, software, or both coupling components of computer system  to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.","The client-side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer-readable storage medium that, when executed, cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above.","While client device  may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems,  shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform , according to various particular embodiments. Multipoint sensing devices generally include a controller  which may comprise a microcontroller or one or more processors configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. Controller  may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions, data, or computer addresses. By way of example, using instructions retrieved from memory, controller  may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform .","Controller  together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. The operating system, other computer code (including control client  described below) and\/or data may be physically stored within a memory block  that is operatively coupled to controller .","Memory block  encompasses one or more storage media and generally provides a place to store computer code (e.g., software and\/or firmware) and data that are used by the computing platform . Memory block  may include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of, by way of example, solid-state hard disk drives (HDDs), among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi-directionally to controller . Information may also reside on a removable storage medium loaded into or installed in multipoint sensing devices when needed. By way of example, any of a number of suitable memory cards may be loaded into computing platform  on a temporary or permanent basis.","Controller  is also generally coupled to a variety of interfaces such as graphics control, video interface, input interface, output interface, and storage interface, and network interface, and these interfaces in turn are coupled to the appropriate devices. In certain embodiments, Controller  may connected to an input structure  and display  may be provided together, such an in the case of a touchscreen where a touch sensitive mechanism is provided in conjunction with the display .","Electric signals (e.g., analog) may be produced by microphone  and fed to earpiece . Controller  may receive instruction signals from input structure  and control the operation of display . Audio signals may be transmitted and received by means of an antenna  that may be connected through a radio interface  or audio input interface such as microphone  to codec  configured to process signals under control of controller . Additionally, multipoint sensing devices may be powered power source .","Mobile device may also include one or more user input devices  (other than input structure ) that are operatively coupled to the controller . Generally, input devices  are configured to transfer data, commands and responses from the outside world into multipoint sensing devices.","Display device  is generally configured to display a graphical user interface (GUI) that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform  and the operating system or application(s) running on the mobile device.","Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101.","The present disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.","The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example, although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system, it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and, even if it is not provided through a website. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system, network, protocol, format or application.","Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the like. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any combinations thereof.","Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination with other devices.","Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, and\/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.","While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments, the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic, rather than limiting, purposes.","Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth in the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
