---
title: Hyperlink destination visibility
abstract: Various embodiments utilize page scripting and parsing to identify the target destination of a hyperlink and provide a visual indication of the destination to the user without causing redirection to the target destination. In some embodiments, hyperlink color, highlighting, or icons are used to indicate the destination. Particular colors and/or icons selected to indicate the destination can, in some embodiments, be selected based on the domain hosting the target destination. In at least some embodiments, the destination of a link is determined by the page script run by a web browser on a user's device, while in other embodiments, information is transmitted to a web request handler on the server hosting the web site to determine the destination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996976&OS=08996976&RS=08996976
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08996976
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110906
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Many web sites present aggregated content from various content sources to users. For example, a web page can include hyperlinks that can take the user to a different page on the web site or to a different web site altogether. In some instances, what appears to be a hyperlink leading to additional information on a topic instead takes a user to a search engine page listing search results for the topic. Often, users are given little to no indication about where a given link will take them, which can lead to frustration or wasted time.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Various embodiments utilize page scripting and parsing to identify the destination of a hyperlink and provide a visual indication of the destination to the user. In some embodiments, hyperlink color, highlighting, or icons are used to indicate the destination. In at least some embodiments, the destination of a link is determined by the page script run by a web browser on a user's device, while in other embodiments, information is transmitted to a web request handler on the server hosting the web site to determine the destination.","Overview","Various embodiments utilize page scripting and parsing to identify the target destination of a hyperlink and provide a visual indication of the destination to the user without causing redirection to the target destination. In some embodiments, hyperlink color, highlighting, or icons are used to indicate the destination. Particular colors and\/or icons selected to indicate the destination can, in some embodiments, be selected based on the domain hosting the target destination. In at least some embodiments, the destination of a link is determined by the page script run by a web browser on a user's device, while in other embodiments, information is transmitted to a web request handler on the server hosting the web site to determine the destination.","In the discussion that follows, a section entitled \u201cExample Operating Environment\u201d describes an operating environment in accordance with one or more embodiments. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Embodiment\u201d describes various embodiments of hyperlink destination visibility. In particular, the section describes processes for determining the destination of a hyperlink and indicating to a user the destination. Finally, a section entitled \u201cExample System\u201d is provided and describes an example system that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.","Consider, now, an example operating environment in accordance with one or more embodiments.","Example Operating Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","102"]},"Computer-readable storage media  includes one or more applications, which can include at least a software executable module in the form of a web browser . Web browser  can receive content from and send content to other servers, such as web site host server , via network , such as the Internet. Such content can include any suitable type of content that can be received from and sent to web sites hosted by the servers. In various embodiments, web browser  is configured to cause a webpage to be displayed to a user according to styles defined by information associated with the webpage. Styles can be specified using the Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) language or in other suitable ways. The information associated with the webpage can be included in page script, which includes instructions to the browser about how to cause the webpage to be displayed. For example, information associated with a certain webpage can define a style such that a hyperlink anchor (e.g., the location within a page from which the hyperlink can be followed) is underlined and displayed in blue while other text on the page is displayed in black. In various embodiments, the style can depend on information associated with the target of a hyperlink (e.g., the location to which the hyperlink leads).","In various embodiments, web site host server  hosts a plurality of webpages . Web site host server  also includes one or more processors  and computer-readable storage media  on which the webpages  reside. In some embodiments, a web request handler  also resides on computer-readable storage media . Web request handler  can be configured to determine the target of dynamic hyperlinks included in one or more webpages  and transmit information associated with the target to the browser  via network . The web request handler is described in further detail below.","The computer-readable storage media included in each device or server can include, by way of example and not limitation, all forms of volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage media that are typically associated with a computing device. Such media can include ROM, RAM, flash memory, hard disk, removable media and the like. One specific example of a computing device is shown and described below in .","Generally, any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software, firmware, hardware (e.g., fixed logic circuitry), or a combination of these implementations. The terms \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201cfunctionality,\u201d and \u201clogic\u201d as used herein generally represent software, firmware, hardware, or a combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation, the module, functionality, or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor (e.g., CPU or CPUs). The program code can be stored in one or more computer-readable memory devices. The features of the user interface techniques described below are platform-independent, meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.","Having described an example operating environment, consider now a discussion of various embodiments employing techniques to visually indicate the destination of a hyperlink to a user.","Example Embodiment","The discussion that follows starts first with a description of an example web browser and its associated user interface. Following this, a discussion of various embodiments of visually indicating the destination of a hyperlink is provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","202","208","210","212"]},"Status indication bar  is configured to display messages and icons to provide information to the user regarding what the browser is doing. For example, a message can indicate that the browser is looking for a web site, contacting a web site it found, waiting for the web site to send data, receiving data from the web site, or downloading parts of a webpage, to name just a few. In some embodiments, the status indication bar  can display icons regarding a security or privacy level. Additionally, the status indication bar can provide information regarding the destination of a hyperlink. Specifically, when an input is received relative to a hyperlink that is of the type that is typically used to attempt to navigate to or initiate a navigation to an associated destination, the target destination can be displayed in the status indication bar. For example, when a mouse indicator  hovers over a hyperlink  in the content rendering area , the status indication bar  can display the target address for the hyperlink .","In various embodiments, the destination of the hyperlink  can be indicated by one or more changes or additions to the mouse indicator . In some embodiments, a rendering is provided adjacent to the mouse indicator to visually convey an affordance that is associated with the target destination. For example, in , when mouse indicator  hovers over the words \u201cweb site\u201d which anchor hyperlink , a small butterfly logo is rendered adjacent to the mouse indicator to indicate that the target of the hyperlink  is a webpage hosted by MSN\u00ae (MSN and the MSN logo are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation). Other logos or icons can be employed, and can be added to mouse indicator  or can replace the mouse indicator . For example, a magnifying glass can be added to or can replace mouse indicator  when the target of a hyperlink is a search results page, or the mouse indicator  can be replaced with the MSN logo when the target of a hyperlink is a webpage hosted by MSN\u00ae.","Additionally or alternatively, the destination of the hyperlink  can be indicated by a change in the color of the hyperlink anchor. For example, the words \u201cweb site\u201d which anchor hyperlink  can be displayed in light blue to indicate that the target of hyperlink  is a webpage hosted by MSN\u00ae while the word \u201caddress\u201d which anchors hyperlink can be displayed in orange to indicate that the target of hyperlink is a webpage hosted by Bing\u00ae Maps (Bing is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation). The use of colors can be used to indicate the destination of the hyperlink in embodiments that do not include mouse indicators, such as in browsers on a mobile phone. The colors chosen to indicate destinations can vary, as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. For example, a particular destination may have a prominent color with which it is associated or which is used to brand the destination. In this case, the prominent color may be used as a way to visually convey an association between the domain hosting the target destination of the hyperlink and the anchor displayed to a user.","In various embodiments, multiple hyperlinks associated with different target webpages (e.g., hyperlinks  and in ) can be identified. When multiple hyperlinks are identified, the system can utilize information associated with different respective target webpages to determine multiple respective styles to be applied to the webpage and visually apply different respective styles to indicate each target webpage.","In some embodiments, a visually applied style is selected based on information regarding a domain hosting the target webpage. For example, in , anchors leading to target webpages hosted on a domain such as MSN\u00ae can be displayed in light blue, while anchors leading to target webpages hosted on a domain such as Bing\u00ae can be displayed in orange. In such embodiments, the same style can be visually applied to multiple hyperlinks leading to different webpages hosted on the same domain.","Having described an example web browser employing hyperlink destination visibility, consider now various processes indicating a target destination of a hyperlink to a user without causing navigation of a browser to the target destination.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300"]},"Block  ascertains occurrence of a user action. Any suitable type of user action can be ascertained. In the illustrated and described embodiments, user actions can include those that typically precede or initiate a navigation to a destination associated with a hyperlink. By way of example and not limitation, such actions can include a user hovering a mouse indicator over a hyperlink included on a webpage displayed by a browser. Block  executes at least a portion of a page script associated with a webpage. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, in various embodiments, the hovering of a mouse over the hyperlink triggers the execution of one or more portions of JavaScript\u00ae code that encodes the webpage (JavaScript is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation). The page script provides the browser with instructions regarding how to process the hyperlink.","Block  determines the target destination by processing the hyperlink. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, various parsing techniques can be employed to extract the target destination from information associated with the hyperlink included in the page script. In various embodiments, additional processing by a web request handler can be employed to determine the target destination, such as when the hyperlink is a dynamic link with a variable target destination. Additional processing by the web request handler is described in more detail below.","Block  visually applies one or more styles based on the target destination. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, in at least some embodiments, the page script can include a look up table (LUT) that defines one or more styles according to the target destination of a hyperlink. Alternately or additionally, the style can be inline coded within the page script. Styles defined according to target destination can include, by way of example and not limitation, text color, background color, mouse icon, mouse color, text styles (including bold, underline, or italics), and the like. Examples of how styles can be applied are provided above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},"Block  identifies one or more hyperlinks to be processed. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, in various embodiments, the hovering of a mouse over the hyperlink triggers the execution of one or more portions of page script that encodes the webpage and indicates that a hyperlink is present.","Next, block  generates tokens. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, in one or more embodiments, a parser processes the page script and splits characters in the code into meaningful symbols according to known expressions. Each group of characters can include one or more characters, and is referred to as a token. For example, in the text \u201c[Tour rookie] [Keegan Bradley], playing in his first [major championship], proved all of those statements wrong here [Sunday] when he won the [PGA Championship],\u201d the brackets illustrate tokens, or words and phrases that have contextual meaning even when considered on their own.","Block  confirms that the tokens form an allowable expression. For example, the parser ensures that the tokens define components that make up an expression and that each word\/phrase exists in a lookup table. For example, the parser can confirm that each token (e.g., Tour rookie, Keegan Bradley, major championship, Sunday, and PGA Championship from the example above) exists in a Wikipedia\u00ae entry lookup table (Wikipedia\u00ae is a registered trademark of Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.) or other database. If the parser has parsed the characters incorrectly, one or more of these tokens may not appear in the lookup table, and the parser can generate a new set of tokens.","Next, block  ascertains a target destination of the hyperlink. This can be done in any suitable way. For example, the parser selects the token including a URL destination of the hyperlink and ascertains the target destination of the hyperlink from the token. Usually, the target domain of the URL can be sufficient to indicate the target destination (e.g., the target network \u201cmsn.com\u201d within the URL http:\/\/editorial.autos.msn.com\/blogs\/autosblog.aspx?feat=d363e301-a203-4080-a52d-39eb03946032).","Block  visually applies one or more styles based on the target destination without causing navigation of the browser to the target destination. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, a look-up table (LUT) can define one or more styles according to the target destination of a hyperlink, or the style can be defined by the code in the page script. Styles defined according to target destination can include, by way of example and not limitation, text color, background color, mouse icon, mouse color, text styles (including bold, underline, or italics), and the like. For example, the LUT can define a style corresponding to the target network \u201cmsn.com\u201d, and the defined style can be applied to the hyperlinks with URLs including that target network (e.g., http:\/\/editorial.autos.msn.com\/blogs\/autosblog.aspx?feat=d363e301-a203-4080-a52d-39eb03946032). The browser then causes the webpage to be displayed accordingly.","Process  can employed in embodiments in which the target destination of the hyperlink can be determined by processing information associated with the webpage, and more particularly, by parsing the information associated with the hyperlinks included in the webpage. However, in some embodiments, such as embodiments where one or more hyperlinks are dynamic hyperlinks, additional processing can be used to determine the target destination.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},"Block  identifies a hyperlink to be processed. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, in various embodiments, the hovering of a mouse over the hyperlink triggers the execution of one or more portions of a page script that encodes the webpage and indicates that a hyperlink is present.","Next, block  generates tokens. This can be done in any suitable way. For example, a parser processes the page script and splits the characters in the code into meaningful symbols according to known expressions. Each group of characters can include one or more characters, and is referred to as a token. Example tokens are \u201cSeattle,\u201d \u201cForrest Gump,\u201d \u201cBill Clinton\u201d or \u201cCommittee to Investigate the Condition of the Potomac River Front at Washington.\u201d","Block  confirms that the tokens generated at block  form an allowable expression. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, the parser can ensure that the tokens define components that make up an expression and that each word\/phrase in the expression exists in a Wikipedia\u00ae entry lookup table.","Next, block  attempts to ascertain a target destination of the hyperlink. This can be performed in any suitable way, examples of which are provided above. Block  determines whether a target destination of the hyperlink was ascertained at block . If the target destination of the hyperlink was ascertained, block  visually applies one or more styles according to the target destination. However, if block  determines that no target destination was ascertained, the process proceeds to block . Attempts to ascertain a target destination of the hyperlink can fail (e.g., a \u201cno\u201d at block ), for example, when the parser is unable to determine the target destination of the hyperlink based on the tokens. For example, the parser determines that the token including the URL destination of the hyperlink is missing or is indicative of a variable destination.","Block  transmits information associated with the hyperlink to the server. The server can be, for example, the web site host server on which the webpage resides. Information transmitted to the server can include information determined by the parser as well as additional information about the user or environment for use in determining the destination of the hyperlink. For example, the target destination of the hyperlink can vary depending on the date, time, user location, or other factors. In addition to transmitting information associated with the hyperlink and user information, the browser can transmit a cookie corresponding to the webpage to the server.","Block  receives the information associated with the hyperlink. Block  ascertains a target destination of the hyperlink. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, a web request handler can determine the target destination of the hyperlink based on the information received from the browser.","In some embodiments, the process continues to optional block . Block  determines styles to be applied. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, the web request handler can determine styles to be applied based on the target destination of the hyperlink utilizing a LUT to determine one or more styles to be altered according to the target destination. Styles defined according to target destination can include, by way of example and not limitation, text color, background color, mouse icon, mouse color, text styles (including bold, underline, or italics), and the like. Then, block  transmits information to the browser. In embodiments including block , the server can transmit the style information, the target destination, and other information to the browser. Block  receives the information from the server, and block  visually applies one or more styles according to the target destination of the hyperlink without causing navigation to the target destination.","In alternate embodiments, computational demands on the server can be reduced by shifting the style determination to the browser. In such embodiments, after block  ascertains the target destination of the hyperlink, the process continues to block . Block  transmits information to the browser. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, the server can transmit the target destination of the hyperlink along with other information to the browser to enable the browser to determine one or more styles according to the target destination. For example, other information transmitted can include information regarding a domain hosting the target webpage. Block  receives the information from the server, and block  visually applies one or more styles according to the target destination. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, the browser can utilize a LUT or one or more style sheets embedded in the page script to determine one or more styles to be altered depending on the target destination. Styles defined according to target destination can include, by way of example and not limitation, text color, background color, mouse icon, mouse color, text styles (including bold, underline, or italics), and the like.","Having described an example method of processing to determine the destination of a hyperlink and indicate the destination to a user, consider now a discussion of an example system that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.","Example System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","600","102"]},"Computing device  includes one or more processors or processing units , one or more memory and\/or storage components , one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices , and a bus  that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus  represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus  can include wired and\/or wireless buses.","Memory\/storage component  represents one or more computer storage media. Memory\/storage component  can include volatile media (such as random access memory (RAM)) and\/or nonvolatile media (such as read only memory (ROM), flash memory, optical disks, magnetic disks, and so forth). Component  can include fixed media (e.g., RAM, ROM, a fixed hard drive, etc.) as well as removable media (e.g., a flash memory drive, a removable hard drive, an optical disk, and so forth).","One or more input\/output devices  allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device , and also allow information to be presented to the user and\/or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard, a cursor control device (e.g., a mouse), a microphone, a scanner, and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device (e.g., a monitor or projector), speakers, a printer, a network card, and so forth.","Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally, software includes routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise \u201ccomputer-readable storage media\u201d.","\u201cComputer-readable storage media\u201d include volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer-readable storage media include, but are not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.","While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example, and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus, embodiments should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["While the specification concludes with claims particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming the subject matter, it is believed that the embodiments will be better understood from the following description in conjunction with the accompanying figures, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
