---
title: Servers, display devices, scrolling methods and methods of generating heatmaps
abstract: Methods of generating heatmaps including receiving, at a first electronic device, first information associated with a first zone of a plurality of zones of a content item, determining at least one first concept related to the first information, receiving at least one target content characteristic, determining at least one second concept related to the at least one target content characteristic, and determining a first heat of the first zone based on the first and second concepts, the first heat representing a measure of similarity between the first and second concepts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994755&OS=08994755&RS=08994755
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08994755
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20111220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","Example embodiments relate to servers, display devices and methods of generating heatmaps, and more particularly to semantic systems determining scrolling characteristics based on content annotation.","2. Description of the Related Art","Mobile reading devices for reading electronic documents, such as e-books, are widespread, and are becoming ever more widespread with the integration of electronic readers (e-readers) into general purpose electronic devices. For example, mobile phones have begun to include integrated reading applications.","Similarly to web surfing, electronic reading (e-reading) is not uniquely a leisurely activity; it is sometimes necessary to search for a particular part of a document, or to scan through a document with a particular reading goal. Examples of documents requiring such reading activities include (but are not limited to) legal documents or study books.","Many solutions exist today for manipulating and browsing through electronic documents. For example, most reading devices provide a common text search in which a user can input a number of characters in a particular order (a character string) and the search function brings the user to portions of a document including the character string. Variations of simple text searches exist, including searches that highlight every instance of a character string in a document.","As another example, electronic devices are often connected to input devices that facilitate document navigation. These electronic devices may include, for example, mouse buttons used to select an object and mouse wheels used to scroll through documents.","Recently, touch sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch screens) have become available. Touch-sensitive surfaces bring new capabilities for interacting with documents as well as some limitations. For example, tabletops and smartphones including touch screens usually have no equivalent of mouse buttons and a mouse wheel. These limitations are overcome through new interaction techniques.","For instance, some solutions focus on associating new interactions to document behavior: tilt, acceleration, thumb pressure and the like are associated to scrolling, opening or closing. For example, pressure may serve as an alternative to multi-tap for text entry with different pressure levels for different letters on a key, and for a virtual keyboard, where pressure allows an uppercase switch. Further, pressure may facilitate one-handed continuous scrolling. When a pressure threshold is exceeded in a part of a touch screen, the contents start to scroll upwards or downwards, with the direction being adjustable via tiny thumb gestures.","Other interaction techniques include swipe, flick or pinch gestures that substitute for conventional user interactions. For example, flick gestures are generally proposed for scrolling through a document being displayed on a touch sensitive surface. Common implementations of flicking involve kinetic scrolling: once a graphical object, for instance a list, has been metaphorically thrown by the user, the system simulates inertia (the object continues to move) as well as friction (the speed progressively decreases down to rest). The deceleration is automatically controlled by the system.","Flick-and-Brake scrolling is a variation of kinetic scrolling that lets the user control this deceleration by pressing a finger on the screen: the stronger the pressure, the stronger the deceleration, analogous to real world physics. Different types of flick-and-brake scrolling have been proposed.","With the advent of electronic documents, other types of user activities not related to document manipulation have also evolved. In the past, when reading a conventional paper document, some readers would annotate passages of the document. An annotation is a note that is made while reading any form of text. For example, highlights, bookmarks, corrections, notes, drawings, underlining, and brief comments are all types of annotations.","Modern analogues to paper annotations include electronic annotations, tags and the like. Electronic annotations are often, but not always, user generated content. For example, social networks of readers may annotate electronic documents and the annotations may be centrally stored on a server. Each member of the social network may access the content generated by other members of the social network. Non-user generated content may include annotations produced by, for example, e-book publishers.","Many methods of manipulating and browsing documents, and making available user generated content, are used in the conventional art. These methods involve user interactions and goals that do not correspond to a particular context (location, activity) or a particular content. For example, while a user can search for a character string, a user cannot search for a literary technique. An example of an unsearchable literary technique is irony. Irony may refer to the use of words to express something other than and sometimes the opposite of the literal meaning, or incongruity between the actual result of a sequence of events and the normal or expected result. Irony is not conventionally searchable because it is context dependent and requires subject matter analysis to detect.","Example embodiments include methods of determining user interaction parameters based on a user goal, including conventionally unsearchable subject matter.","For example, example embodiments include determining scrolling characteristics of an e-document by associating a user goal with a concept, associating user generated content related to the e-book with a concept by document zone (e.g., paragraph) and generating a heat map that maps the similarity between the user goal concept and the user generated content concept by zone. Document zones in which there is a relatively strong measure of similarity between the user goal concept and the user generated content concept are \u201chot\u201d while zones for which there is a weak measure of similarity are \u201ccold.\u201d","Scrolling characteristics of the e-document being displayed by an e-reader may be different by paragraph based on the heat map. For example, the greater a similarity between a search concept and a user generated content concept for a paragraph (e.g., the \u2018hotter\u2019 the paragraph), the slower a rate of scrolling of that paragraph. Accordingly, a user may scroll through a document looking for a particular context or a particular content in an e-document. The user's attention may be drawn to portions of the e-document relating to the context or content by a change in an interaction parameter of the e-reader displaying the e-document. For example, an e-document scrolling may slow down when \u2018hot\u2019 paragraphs are displayed.","According to an example embodiment, a method of generating a heatmap includes receiving, at a first electronic device, first information associated with a first zone of a plurality of zones of a content item, determining at least one first concept related to the first information, receiving at least one target content characteristic, determining at least one second concept related to the at least one target content characteristic, and determining a first heat of the first zone based on the first and second concepts, the first heat representing a measure of similarity between the first and second concepts.","According to another example embodiment, a scrolling method includes varying, by a content display device, at least one scroll characteristic based on a heatmap of correlation weights between a plurality of first concepts based on a content item and at least one second concept based on a user goal.","According to a further example embodiment, a server includes an interface and a semantic heatmap module configured to receive information associated with a plurality of zones of a content item, generate first concept clouds by associating first concepts to the information, the first concept clouds representing the first concepts, group the first concept clouds by zone, receive at least one target content characteristic, generate at least one second concept cloud by associating at least one second concept to the at least one target content characteristic, the second concept cloud representing the at least one second concept, and assign a zone heat to each of the zones by determining a similarity between the grouped first concept clouds associated to each of the zones and the at least one second concept cloud.","According to still another example embodiment, a display device includes a reading module, a braking module configured to vary at least one scroll characteristic of the display device based on a heatmap of weighted correlations between a plurality of first concepts based on a content item and at least one second concept based on a user goal, and an I\/O device.","It should be noted that these Figures are intended to illustrate the general characteristics of methods, structure and\/or materials utilized in certain example embodiments and to supplement the written description provided below. These drawings are not, however, to scale and may not precisely reflect the precise structural or performance characteristics of any given embodiment, and should not be interpreted as defining or limiting the range of values or properties encompassed by example embodiments. For example, the relative thicknesses and positioning of molecules, layers, regions and\/or structural elements may be reduced or exaggerated for clarity. The use of similar or identical reference numbers in the various drawings is intended to indicate the presence of a similar or identical element or feature.","While example embodiments are capable of various modifications and alternative forms, embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that there is no intent to limit example embodiments to the particular forms disclosed, but on the contrary, example embodiments are to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the claims. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.","Before discussing example embodiments in more detail, it is noted that some example embodiments are described as processes or methods depicted as flowcharts. Although the flowcharts describe the operations as sequential processes, many of the operations may be performed in parallel, concurrently or simultaneously. In addition, the order of operations may be re-arranged. The processes may be terminated when their operations are completed, but may also have additional steps not included in the figure. The processes may correspond to methods, functions, procedures, subroutines, subprograms, etc.","Methods discussed below, some of which are illustrated by the flow charts, may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, or any combination thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware or microcode, the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine or computer readable medium such as a storage medium. A processor(s) may perform the necessary tasks.","Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing example embodiments of the present invention. This invention may, however, be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.","It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first element could be termed a second element, and, similarly, a second element could be termed a first element, without departing from the scope of example embodiments. As used herein, the term \u201cand\/or\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.","It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d to another element, it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly connected\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled\u201d to another element, there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion (e.g., \u201cbetween\u201d versus \u201cdirectly between,\u201d \u201cadjacent\u201d versus \u201cdirectly adjacent,\u201d etc.).","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components and\/or groups thereof.","It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations, the functions\/acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality\/acts involved.","Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which example embodiments belong. It will be further understood that terms, e.g., those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.","Portions of the example embodiments and corresponding detailed description are presented in terms of software, or algorithms and symbolic representations of operation on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the ones by which those of ordinary skill in the art effectively convey the substance of their work to others of ordinary skill in the art. An algorithm, as the term is used here, and as it is used generally, is conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of optical, electrical, or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.","In the following description, illustrative embodiments will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations (e.g., in the form of flowcharts) that may be implemented as program modules or functional processes include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and may be implemented using existing hardware at existing network elements. Such existing hardware may include one or more Central Processing Units (CPUs), digital signal processors (DSPs), application-specific-integrated-circuits, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) computers or the like.","It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise, or as is apparent from the discussion, terms such as \u201cprocessing\u201d or \u201ccomputing\u201d or \u201ccalculating\u201d or \u201cdetermining\u201d of \u201cdisplaying\u201d or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical, electronic quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.","Note also that the software implemented aspects of the example embodiments are typically encoded on some form of program storage medium or implemented over some type of transmission medium. The program storage medium may be magnetic (e.g., a floppy disk or a hard drive) or optical (e.g., a compact disk read only memory, or \u201cCD ROM\u201d), and may be read only or random access. Similarly, the transmission medium may be twisted wire pairs, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or some other suitable transmission medium known to the art. The example embodiments not limited by these aspects of any given implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","105","110"]},"The server  may be, for example, a back-end PHP server that conforms to representational state transfer (REST) services (e.g., RESTful services), a style of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web. The server  may include a database  and a semantic heatmap module .","The database  may store content and content information. Content may include, for example, e-books, electronic legal documents, videos, document lists, pictures, audio clips and\/or any type of electronically distributable data. Content information may be information related to the content and may be generated by a user of the content. User generated content may include, for example, annotations, tags and the like.","The semantic heatmap module  may receive a request for content and at least one target characteristic from the client  via the interface  (e.g., a network interface), and may compute a heatmap for the requested content (described below). A target characteristic may be, for example, a user goal with respect to the requested content. A target characteristic may be a concept or a characteristic that may be associated to a concept.","As one example, a target characteristic may be \u2018metaphor,\u2019 \u2018irony,\u2019 \u2018analogy\u2019 or some other literary technique, the determination of the existence of which requires content analysis. As another example, a target characteristic may be a quality or description, for example, an emotion. The target characteristic may be represented by one or more words, and\/or generally by any type of content. For example, the target characteristic may be a picture.","The heatmap module may include, for example, a target+context module  and a content information module . The target+context module  may receive at least one target characteristic from the client  and semantically process the target characteristic.","Semantic processing includes associating concepts to information. For example, semantic processing may include using one or more semantic processing algorithms to identify concepts that are most relevant to the meaning of the information, by traversing graphs (e.g., keyword-based searching in graphs), and computing distances and similarities. The concepts may be organized as one or more semantic clouds. A semantic cloud may be a list of concepts relevant to the meaning of a semantically processed item sorted according to relevance such that higher-order concepts take precedence.","Semantic processing algorithms are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. One example of semantic processing that is well known includes the use of parts-of-speech tagging (POS tagging) and named entity recognition (NER). POS tagging may assign syntactic categories like noun, pronoun, verb and adjective to each component (e.g., word) in text. Name entity recognition may locate and classify parts of text into predefined categories such as the names of persons, organizations, locations, expressions of times, quantities, monetary values, percentages, and\/or the like.","POS tagging and named entity recognition may be applied to the target characteristic. Accordingly, the language dependent target characteristic may be POS tagged and language dependent named entities (e.g., a named entity cloud) may be extracted from the tagged components. For each named entity, the target+context module  may call to a public web service, for example, a semantic ontology database  and\/or a dictionary database , to obtain information related to each named entity (and hence the target characteristic). For example, the target+context module  may perform a search using a semantic ontology database  to retrieve a list of language independent concepts (e.g., a concept cloud) for each named entity derived from the target characteristic. For each concept, the target+context module  may retrieve a description of the concept (called an abstract) from the semantic ontology database . POS tagging and named entity extraction may be performed on the abstracts for each concept. As a result, both the target characteristic and the concepts may be associated to named entity clouds.","The target characteristic and each concept may be represented by vectors (lists) of their associated named entities ponderated with their frequency. The vector of the target characteristic may be compared to the vector of each concept to determine which concepts are closer to the target characteristic. The closeness is represented by a measure of similarity between each of the concepts and the target characteristic, also called a distance from the concept to the text. The distance is generally computed as the cosine measure between vectors. Specifically, the cosine between vectors is determined by using the named entities as directions, and the number of occurrences of each named entity in each cloud as that cloud's coordinate along that direction. Computation of similarities between lists of entities is well known in the art.","The distances may be used to determine the relevancy of each concept to the target characteristic and to generate semantic clouds associated with the target characteristic. Accordingly, natural language may be changed into semantic concepts by a semantic processing algorithm.","As a specific example of semantic processing, the target+context module  may receive a target characteristic of \u201cirony.\u201d The target+context module  may obtain information related to irony from a semantic ontology database  and\/or a dictionary database  of the web . The information may be processed using a semantic processing algorithm to identify a set of concepts related to irony. The most relevant concepts may be organized as one or more semantic clouds associated with irony. If more than one meaning may be associated to the information of the target characteristic(s), the target+context module  may use the content as context in order to determine the most likely meaning of the target characteristic.","The content information module  may receive content information from the database  and cause the content information to be semantically processed. For example, the heatmap module may obtain content information from the database  and\/or information related to the content information from a dictionary database . The content information module  may send the content information and\/or information obtained from the dictionary database  to a semantic processing application server . A semantic processing application server  may be a server that semantically processes information. The content information module  may receive semantic cloud(s) associated to the content information from the semantic processing application server .","As an example, the content information module  may retrieve at least one annotation related to at least one paragraph (e.g., zone) of an e-document from the database . The content information module  may call to, for example, the semantic processing application server  and\/or the dictionary database . The semantic processing application server  may associate the annotations and\/or information provided by the dictionary database  to at least one concept. For example, the semantic processing application server  may generate at least one semantic cloud for each paragraph of an e-document based on the annotations and information from the dictionary database . The semantic cloud(s) may be sent to the content information module .","The semantic heatmap module  may compute one or more measures of similarity between the content information and the target characteristic(s). For example, the semantic heatmap module  may compute one or more measures of similarity between the one or more concept clouds of the content information and the one or more concept clouds of the target characteristic in a somewhat similar manner to that described above with respect to semantic processing algorithms. The one or more measures of similarity may be mapped by the heatmap module  to the content by zone to generate zone heats. The zone heats may be compiled as a heatmap.","In a case where no target characteristic is input by a user, each heat may be set to a fixed value, for example, a \u201c1,\u201d or related to other parameters, for example, the creation date of the content information (e.g., more recent annotations result in \u201chotter\u201d zones). The server  may send the content and the heatmap to the client  through the interface  (e.g., a network interface).","According to at least one example embodiment, a server may include an interface and a semantic heatmap module configured to receive information associated with a plurality of zones of a content item, generate first concept clouds by associating first concepts to the information, group the first concept clouds by zone, receive at least one target content characteristic, generate at least one second concept cloud by associating at least one second concept to the at least one target content characteristic, and assign a zone heat to each of the zones by determining a similarity between the grouped first concept clouds associated to each of the zones and the at least one second concept cloud.","The client  may be an electronic device. For example, the client  may be a television, an audio device, a cellular phone, a smartphone, a digital camera, a video camera, a personal navigation device, a computer, a personal digital assistant, an e-reader, a tablet computer and\/or the like. The client  may use, for example, HTML and Javascript as a font end client. The client  may include a reading module , a braking module , at least one input\/output (I\/O) device  and\/or an interface .","The reading module  may include a display and application software and\/or hardware to drive the display. The reading module  may display content to the user and control display characteristics of the content. The display characteristics may include, for example, scrolling characteristics. A scrolling characteristic may be, for example, a type of scrolling (e.g., flick and brake), a speed of scrolling, a scrolling rate of change of scrolling (acceleration\/deceleration) and\/or the like.","The braking module  may supply values for at least one display characteristic to the reading module . The values may be determined by the braking module  from a heatmap of the document being displayed. The reading module  may control the display of an electronic document based on the values of the display characteristic supplied by the braking module .","The at least one input\/output device  may be a physical device and\/or a simulated device. For example, an input\/output device  may be a virtual keyboard accessed using a touch screen. The client  may receive a request for content from a user via the input\/output device . According to an example embodiment, upon receiving a request for content, the client  may prompt the user to input a target characteristic via an input\/output device .","The client  may communicate with the server  through an interface . Upon receiving a target characteristic from the user, the client  may send the target characteristic and the request for content to the server . The client  may receive the requested content and a heatmap of the content from the server  through the interface . The interface  may be, for example, a network interface.","Although the example embodiment illustrated in  is described with particularity, one of ordinary skill in the art understands that the functions of various components and modules may be consolidated to a single device, may be segregated between additional devices, may be performed differently and\/or the like. For example, the content information module may access the semantic ontology database  and generate concept clouds without the use of the semantic processing application server . Similarly, the target+context module  may utilize the semantic processing application server  rather than generating the concept clouds. As another example, the client  may perform each function of the server  and the server  may not be used.","According to at least one example embodiment, a display device includes a reading module, a braking module configured to vary at least one scroll characteristic of the display device based on a heatmap of weighted correlations between a plurality of first concepts based on a content item and at least one second concept based on a target characteristic, and an I\/O device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","210","205","215","220","225"]},"As one non-limiting example, a server (e.g., the server ) may receive a request for an e-book, a target characteristic of \u201cirony\u201d and user generated annotations associated with the e-book. The word \u201cirony\u201d may be processed to generate one or more concept clouds including one or more concepts related to irony. The annotations may be processed to associate one or more concept clouds including one or more concepts related to the annotations. The server  may, for each paragraph of the e-book, compare the associated concept clouds generated for \u201cirony\u201d and the concept clouds generated for the annotations to determine at least one correlation weight between the respective concept clouds. The correlation weights of the paragraphs may each be a \u201cheat\u201d of a corresponding paragraph. The server  may compile a heatmap using the paragraph heats.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3D","FIGS. 3A-3D"]},"Referring to , a heatmap may be received by a client  and\/or generated by a server  (S). The heatmap may include heats for each paragraph of an e-document and\/or for zones of a picture. The heatmap may be used, for example, to determine a scrolling speed and\/or a scrolling rate of change (e.g., acceleration\/deceleration) of each paragraph and\/or picture being displayed on an electronic device (S). For example, the electronic device may include the client .","According to at least one example embodiment, a heatmap may include mappings between heats and zones for both text and graphics of a single e-document. For example, a reading goal of \u201cirony\u201d and annotations related to a zone including both text and a picture describing an ironic situation may be semantically processed. The zone corresponding to the text and picture may be \u201chot\u201d when the annotations include commentary related to irony. As a user is scrolling through the e-document, upon display of the zone including the picture and text, a speed of the scrolling may be either increased, decreased or maintained based on the heat the heat of the zone and a heat of a zone displayed just prior to the currently displayed zone.","Referring to , a heatmap may be received by a client  and\/or generated by a server  (S). The heatmap may include heats for each video segment of a video. The heatmap may be used by a display device including the client  to determine a playback speed and\/or a playback rate of change of each video segment of the video (S).","According to at least one example embodiment, a heatmap may be a heatmap of a video. A viewing goal and electronic tags related to video segments may be semantically processed. For example, a video segment may be \u201chot\u201d when a viewing goal is \u201cirony\u201d and tags related to a video segment are associated to concepts related to irony. A display device in a fast-forwarding mode may fast-forward through the video. Upon reaching a video segment, the fast-forwarding speed may increase, decrease or be maintained, based on the heat of the video segment and a heat of a video segment displayed just prior to the current video segment. For example, if the video segment corresponds to the hottest zone of the video, the fast-forwarding speed may be reduced and\/or the video playback may be changed to a normal viewing playback speed when the hottest video segment is displayed.","Referring to , a heatmap may be received by a client  and\/or generated by a server  (S). The heatmap may include heats for each document in a document list. The heatmap may be used by a client  to determine a scrolling speed and\/or a scrolling rate of change of the document list (S).","According to at least one example embodiment, the heatmap may include heats for a list of documents saved in a database (e.g., an index). For example, a target characteristic of \u201cirony\u201d and notes made using a note function in each of the documents may be semantically processed. A document may be \u201chot\u201d when the notes corresponding to the document are associated to concepts related to irony. As a user is scrolling through the list of documents, upon display of the name of the hot document, for example in one horizontal subdivision of the display, a speed of the scrolling may be increased, decreased or maintained based on the heat of the hot document and a heat of the document displayed just prior to the current document. For example, if the currently displayed document name corresponds to the hottest document in the document list, the scrolling speed may be reduced and\/or the scrolling may be briefly paused.","Referring to , a heatmap may be received by a client  and\/or generated by a server  (S). The heatmap may include heats for each website listing in a website list. The heatmap may be used by a client  to determine a scrolling speed and\/or a scrolling rate of change of the website list (S).","According to at least one example embodiment, a heatmap may include heats for internet websites listed on a golf related webpage. Reviews of the websites available on the web  and a target characteristic of \u201cgolf metaphors\u201d may be semantically processed. An internet website may be \u201chot\u201d when the reviews are associated to concepts related to golf metaphors. As a user is scrolling through the website list, upon display of a website listing, for example in one horizontal subdivision of the display, a speed of the scrolling may be increased, decreased or maintained based on the heat of the website listing and a heat of the website listing displayed just prior to the current website listing. For example, if the currently displayed internet website listing corresponds to the hottest website listing in the website list, the scrolling speed may be reduced and\/or the scrolling may be briefly paused.","Although example embodiments described with respect to  include increasing, decreasing or maintaining a scrolling speed, one of ordinary skill will understand that many variations are within the scope of the inventive concepts. For example, heats may be assigned one of two values so that scrolling is in effect a jumping between \u201chot\u201d content. As another example, a scroll characteristic may be a braking factor. Other display characteristics, such as magnification, brightness, contrast, rotation, and the like are also contemplated by example embodiments. Further, various combinations of display characteristic determinations are contemplated by example embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["105","100","405","130","410","135","415"]},"The server  may send the reading goal to a semantic processing application server  (S). In response, one or more reading goal clouds may be received by the server  from the semantic processing application server  (S). The server  may determine a measure of similarity between the reading goal cloud(s) and the annotation cloud(s) to determine annotation heats (S).","The annotation heats may be grouped by paragraph. The server  may determine paragraph heats from the grouped annotation heats. For example, a paragraph heat may be the sum of the heats of the annotations associated to the paragraph. A chapter heatmap may be generated for a chapter of the e-book by compiling the paragraph heats of the chapter (e.g., generating a mapping between paragraph heats and paragraphs of the chapter) (S). The chapter heatmap and the corresponding chapter of the e-book may be sent to the client  (S). According to at least one example embodiment, a heatmap may be generated for each of the chapters of the e-book and the server  may send an e-book heatmap and the entire e-book to the client .","Although the example embodiment illustrated in  is described with particularity, one of ordinary skill in the art understands that the described method is an example and may be modified in various ways. For example, the annotations may be sent to the semantic processing application server  in S and the reading goal may be semantically processed in the heatmap module  in S. According to example embodiments, both of the annotations and the reading goal may be processed by only the heatmap module  or by only the semantic processing application server. According to at least one example embodiment, all processing may be performed by the client .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","505","100","100","510","105","515","100","105","520"]},"The client  may display the e-book to the user, for example, by chapter. The client  may determine when a paragraph of the chapter is being displayed (S). A scroll braking factor of the display may be determined based on the currently displayed paragraph and the heatmap (S). According to at least one example embodiment, the scroll braking factor may be determined prior to display of the paragraph. Based on the current value, the scroll braking factor of the display may be increased, decreased or maintained (S).","If a paragraph is being displayed for the first time, the braking factor may be changed or maintained relative to a default value. If the current paragraph follows a previous paragraph, the braking factor may be changed or maintained based on a relative heat of the current paragraph with respect to the previous paragraph. For example, the greater a heat of the paragraph the greater the braking factor may be. An example braking formula may be: a+b*(sum (heat, for each currently displayed paragraph)), where a and b are parameters to be set by user experimentation and relative to the possible values of heat.","For example, a user may launch scrolling on a display in a flick and brake mode of the client  with a flick of a thumb. The scrolling may be braked so that the scrolling gradually stops. The braking may be greater when a \u201chot\u201d paragraph is displayed and slower when a \u201ccold\u201d paragraph is displayed. According to at least one example embodiment, a thumb gesture is less efficient for hot zones so that acceleration is slower.","Although example embodiments illustrated in  are described with particularity, one of ordinary skill in the art understands that the described methods are an example and may be modified in various ways. For example, according to at least one example embodiment, all processing may occur at the client .","According to at least one example embodiment, a scrolling method includes receiving, at a first electronic device, first information associated with a first zone of a plurality of zones of a content item, determining at least one first concept related to the first information, receiving at least one target content characteristic, determining at least one second concept related to the at least one target content characteristic, determining a first heat of the first zone based on the first and second concepts, the first heat representing a measure of similarity between the first and second concepts and determining at least one scroll characteristic of a display device based on the first heat.","While example embodiments have been particularly shown and described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that variations in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will become more fully understood from the detailed description given herein below and the accompanying drawings, wherein like elements are represented by like reference numerals, which are given by way of illustration only and thus are not limiting of the present invention and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
