---
title: Multimedia alerting
abstract: A method, system, apparatus, and device provides alert information to a user of a device. In response to an alert notification of an alert, one or more alert geographical tiles of interest that are affected by the alert of a plurality of geographical tiles are determined; one or more location-enabled devices each having a location that falls within an alert geographical tile of the one or more alert geographical tiles are determined; a portion of the alert is retrieved from an alert database and processed to generate a media version of the alert; an alert text notification of the alert having the text portion of the alert, an alert identifier of the alert, a reference identifier for the media version of the alert, the one or more alert geographical tiles, and the one or more one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices is constructed; the one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices, the alert text notification and the alert identifier of the alert is retrieved and the alert text notification is transmitted to the one or more devices corresponding to the retrieved one or more device identifiers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788606&OS=08788606&RS=08788606
owner: Weather Decision Technologies, Inc.
number: 08788606
owner_city: Norman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110407
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/322,640 filed Apr. 9, 2010, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This application is related to the following co-pending U.S. patent applications: application Ser. No. 13\/082,250, filed on even date herewith, which is incorporated herein in their entirety.","NOAA Weather Radio is a service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce. As the \u201cVoice of the National Weather Service\u201d, it provides continuous broadcasts of the latest weather information from local National Weather Service offices. Weather messages are repeated every 4 to 6 minutes, and are routinely updated every 1 to 3 hours or more frequently in rapidly changing local weather, or if a nearby hazardous environmental condition exists. The service operates 24 hours daily. The regular broadcasts are specifically tailored to weather information needs of the people within the service area of the transmitter. For example, in addition to general weather information, stations in coastal areas provide information of interest to mariners. Other specialized information, such as current conditions and forecasts, may be broadcast.","During severe weather, National Weather Service forecasters can interrupt the routine weather broadcasts and insert special warning messages concerning imminent threats to life and property. The forecaster can also add special signals to warnings that trigger \u201calerting\u201d features of specially equipped receivers. This is known as the tone alert feature, and acts much like a smoke detector in that it will alarm when necessary to warn of an impending hazard. Currently, all receivers equipped with the tone alert feature within the listening area will alarm when a warning is issued. However, in the future, only receivers located in the warned area (normally a specific county or counties) will alarm. This feature is referred to as Specific Area Message Encoding (SAME), and will be the primary activator for the new Emergency Alert System currently being implemented by the Federal Communication Commission.","Under a January 1975 White House policy statement, NOAA Weather Radio was designated the sole government-operated radio system to provide direct warnings into private homes for both natural disasters and nuclear attack. This concept is being expanded to include warnings for all hazardous conditions that pose a threat to life and safety, both at a local and national level. NOAA Weather Radio currently broadcasts from over 400 FM transmitters on seven frequencies in the VHF band, ranging from 162.400 to 162.550 megahertz (MHz) in fifty states, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and Saipan. These frequencies are outside the normal AM or FM broadcast bands.","Special radios that receive only NOAA Weather Radio, both with and without the tone alert feature, are available from several manufacturers. The radios can usually be found at most department and electronics stores. In addition, other manufacturers are including NOAA Weather Radio as a special feature on an increasing number of receivers. NOAA Weather Radio capability is currently available on some automobile, aircraft, marine, citizens band, and standard AM\/FM radios, as well as communications receivers, transceivers, scanners, and cable TV.","By nature and by design, NOAA Weather Radio coverage is typically limited to an area within 40 miles, using 500 watt transmitters, of the transmitter. The quality of what is heard is dictated by the distance from the transmitter, local terrain, and the quality and location of the receiver. In general, those on flat terrain or at sea, using a high quality receiver, can expect reliable reception far beyond 40 miles. Those living in cities surrounded by large buildings, and those in mountain valleys, with standard receivers may experience little or no reception at considerably less than 40 miles. If possible, a receiver should be tested in the location where it will be used prior to purchase.","NOAA Weather Radio is directly available to approximately 70 to 80 percent of the U.S. population. The National Weather Service is currently engaged in a program to increase coverage to 95 percent of the population.","Using an existing NOAA issued weather radio; the user of this service is required to tune the weather radio to a given frequency based on their location before the radio will work. Once working, the weather radio will notify the users covering an area of approximately 40 miles radius from the transmitter, see the NOAA Weather Radio coverage maps at http:\/\/www.weather.gov\/nwr\/Maps\/. Currently, the NOAA Weather Radio Network includes 1000 transmitters, covering all 50 states, adjacent coastal waters, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the U.S. Pacific Territories.","While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms, there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail specific embodiments, with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described. In the description below, like reference numerals are used to describe the same, similar or corresponding parts in the several views of the drawings.","In this document, relational terms such as first and second, top and bottom, and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. An element preceded by \u201ccomprises . . . a\u201d does not, without more constraints, preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises the element.","Reference throughout this document to \u201cone embodiment\u201d, \u201ccertain embodiments\u201d, \u201can embodiment\u201d or similar terms means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of such phrases or in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments without limitation.","The term \u201cor\u201d as used herein is to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore, \u201cA, B or C\u201d means \u201cany of the following: A; B; C; A and B; A and C; B and C; A, B and C\u201d. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements, functions, steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.","For simplicity and clarity of illustration, reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the embodiments described herein. The embodiments may be practiced without these details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, and components have not been described in detail to avoid obscuring the embodiments described. The description is not to be considered as limited to the scope of the embodiments described herein.","Introduction","Due to the large percentage of mobile device users, especially with the significant increase in the use of Smart phones, mobile devices provide an excellent vehicle for delivering severe warning messages of impending severe weather or other hazards to the public. In addition to this, most new mobile phones possess the capability to determine their device location within less than 1 km accuracy. This is enough resolution to make use of the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) severe warning system and other weather and hazard warning systems to determine if the location of the device is in such a hazard. In addition to mapping severe weather alerts, this System can map the DMA (Direct Marketing Area) of the device to local television and\/or radio broadcasters that might have even more information for the user about the severity of the conditions and how the conditions might affect them.","Given those facts, the Multimedia Alerting method, system, apparatus, and device as described in embodiments herein provide the ability to convert mobile devices into a video, audio and\/or textual severe weather early warning devices and to allow local television and\/or radio broadcasts to be directed to a user of a mobile device in times of impending danger.","Multimedia alerting is designed to support high-end mobile phones, smart phones, and other portable computing devices that can obtain its location, has access to an Internet data source, and has the capability to at least render digital audio and possibly also video alert information to the user of the device.","It is noted that while the use of portable, mobile devices, such as cellular telephones, mobile phones, smart phones, and the like are discussed, the embodiments described herein are not limited to usage with mobile devices. Any location-enabled device for which location can be determined, including stationary devices and\/or vehicles and assets or objects of interest, are compatible with the embodiments described herein. These devices will have at least an audio capability of delivering and providing messages via a user interface having audio capabilities regarding weather conditions and non-weather conditions relevant to one or more locations of interest which may or may not be the location of the device itself, as will be described. These devices may also have a video\/visual capability of delivering and providing messages via a user interface having audio and\/or visual capabilities regarding weather conditions and non-weather conditions relevant to one or more locations of interest.","Therefore, in accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein, a method of providing alert information to a user of a device comprises: in response to an alert notification of an alert, determining one or more alert geographical tiles of interest that are affected by the alert of a plurality of geographical tiles, wherein each geographical tile of the plurality of geographical tiles represents a unique geographic projection of a rendered geographical area of defined size; determining one or more location-enabled devices each having a location that falls within an alert geographical tile of the one or more alert geographical tiles; retrieving a portion of the alert from an alert database and processing the portion of the alert to generate a media version of the alert; constructing an alert text notification of the alert having the text portion of the alert, an alert identifier of the alert, a reference identifier for the media version of the alert, the one or more alert geographical tiles, and the one or more one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices; and retrieving the one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices, the alert text notification and the alert identifier of the alert and transmitting the alert text notification to the one or more devices corresponding to the retrieved one or more device identifiers. A device of the one or more devices may receive and process the alert text notification and request to receive alert data of the alert. Received alert data of the alert may be presented to a user of the device through a user interface of the device.","Moreover, in accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein, a method of providing alert information to a user of a device comprises: an alert service provider transmitting an alert notification of an alert to an alert processing server; storing the alert notification in an alert database coupled to the alert processing server; an alert notification server retrieving the alert notification from the alert database and determining one or more alert geographical tiles of interest that are affected by the alert of a plurality of geographical tiles, wherein each geographical tile of the plurality of geographical tiles represents a unique geographic projection of a rendered geographical area of defined size; the alert notification server determining one or more location-enabled devices each having a location that falls within an alert geographical tile of the one or more alert geographical tiles; retrieving a text portion of the alert from the alert database and processing the text portion of the alert to generate an audio version of the alert; constructing an alert text notification of the alert having the text portion of the alert, an alert identifier of the alert, a reference identifier for the audio version of the alert, the one or more alert geographical tiles and the one or more one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices and storing the alert text notification into an alert notification queue; and a gateway server retrieving the one or more device identifiers for each of the one or more devices, the alert text notification and the alert identifier of the alert from the alert notification queue and transmitting the alert text notification to the one or more devices corresponding to the retrieved one or more device identifiers. A device of the one or more devices may receive and process the alert text notification and request to receive alert data of the alert. Received alert data of the alert may be presented to a user of the device through a user interface of the device.","Alert Types","The types of alert notifications that are supported by the various embodiments described herein include, but are not limited to: Weather Alerts, Lightning Alerts, Lightning Prediction Alerts, Traffic Alerts, and Emergency Alert Service (EAS) Service Network just to name a few possibilities.","Weather Alerts","A Weather Alert Service Provider may receive weather alerts and notifications from The National Weather Service of the United States or other sources, such as a Lightning detection system, weather forecast system, disaster\/emergency alert services or other sources. These alerts are delivered in encoded text from the Alert Service Provider or System. The encoded text includes information relating to the severity of the alert, the type of phenomena or event that the alert represents, text describing the alert, the watch\/warning boxes of the alert, a beginning time (estimated time of arrival (ETA)), an ending time (estimated time of departure (ETD)), and the current area effected by the phenomena.","Audio Alerts","Audio alerts are designed to mimic the voice audio supplied by a National Weather Service Weather Radio when a device user needs to be notified of severe weather, traffic, current weather conditions, weather forecasts, special public notices, or emergency conditions.","Audio Alert Types","There are at least two (2) types of audio available for alerts. One is statically generated audio that is \u2018baked into\u2019 the mobile applications and the other is a Text-to-Speech converted MP3 audio file that reads the header of the alert and\/or reads the full alert text to the user. Audio Alerts do not necessarily need to be limited to weather alerts. They could include traffic alerts, public alert notifications, disaster warnings, and many more public notifications.","Generation of Audio Alerts","The audio alerts are generated by a Text-to-Speech engine, such as a third-party Text-to-Speech engine and provided to a user of a device by an alert software program or software application, also referred to as an Alert Application, a Backend Application, or simply an \u201cApp\u201d, running on the Device. A Text-to-Speech engine supplies the Text-to-Speech conversion service through an Application Programming Interface (API) with which an application running on the Device may interface. This interface will allow the Alert Message or Service Provider to modify voice, speed, and inflection of the voice to be rendered by the application with supplied text. Each voice is also language dependant.","Also, please note when converting from Text-to-Speech the text must be first processed to replace any abbreviated text with full word versions of the abbreviation. For instance, \u201cFeb\u201d should be converted to February; \u201cCDT\u201d should be converted to \u201cCentral Daylight Time\u201d, as examples. These abbreviations that are commonly contained in alert text and include, but are not limited to: time zones, countries, hours, minutes, and days of the week, months, and states. Other phonetic modification may need to be made depending on the quality of the voice. Thus, a word prone to mispronunciation can be modified to match phonetically to the intended speech. For example, the spelling of the word \u201cwind\u201d may be modified to match phonetically to the intended speech, so that \u201cwind\u201d is converted to \u201cwend\u201d.","Caching Audio Alerts","The Audio Alerts cache lifespan should match the life expectancy of the alert as defined in the data supplied by the alert source. A background task should be set to purge the audio files cached at configurable time that balances between server load and space available. The initial recommendation is to set the background task to run every hour, for example.","EAS\/FEMA\/Civil Defense\/Homeland Security Alerts","The EAS alerts are delivered to the Weather Alert Service Provider as aggregated information by the National Weather Service contained within their alert bulletins. This information is parsed in the same manner as the Weather Alerts received from the National Weather Service. A Weather Alert Service Provider may combine data from multiple sources, such as the United States Geological Survey for Earthquake and Volcanic alerts, the United States Department of Justice for child abduction alerts, and the United States Department of Homeland Security for public security alerts.","In addition to this, the alerting system of a Weather Alert Service Provider may include alerts on a global basis.","Traffic Alerts","A user traveling along a highway could also be notified by both audible and\/or visual alerts to changes in traffic conditions along a route, such as road work ahead, traffic slowing ahead, and other tests. This would also be defined by using tile and magnetic heading of the device.","The Alert Geographic Tile System","This alert system is based on identifying alert-affected areas in \u201cTiles\u201d where each tile is defined as a geographic area identified by a \u201cTile Code\u201d.","Overview of Tiles","The Multimedia Alerting System is designed to provide an enhanced alerting feature set and expand the scope of alerts beyond traditional text-based severe weather text alerting products. One of the primary features of this alerting system is to reduce the number of \u201cfalse alarms\u201d received by the end-user. In order to accomplish this, the geographic grouping that matches alerts with the recipients of an alert is not based on traditional city, state, or county boundaries, in which actual latitude\/Longitude polygons are provided for the affected area for a given alert. Due to the high volume of traffic that this alert system will process, this system cannot handle the computational complexity of attempting to determine if a recipients' location falls within a polygon using traditional means.","Based on these requirements, a tile coding system was developed to allow a backend alert software application to use a simple database query to determine what recipients should receive alerts based on a static (non-changing location, such as, a hospital or school) or dynamic (changeable location, such as, a tracked mobile device) location of interest. A recipient who should receive an alert may be a user of a device having location represented by a tile code of interest or the recipient may be a person interested in a tile code of interest even if their physical device is not itself located in the tile code of interest. These tile codes are used between the server and client device to represent a unique geographic projection of a rendered geographical area of defined size. The unique geographic projection may be a Mercator or other geographical projection rendered box or Tile, approximately 2 sq km in size, for example.","To accomplish this, a tile coding system was developed to allow communications between the server and client device, while maintaining an approximate 2 km (approximately 1.2 mile) accuracy, which we finally chose a representation of a Mercator box or Tile based on 1 arc minute of latitude and longitude within a text string. This allows the entire planet to be divided into an even number of sections or Tiles that can be quickly searched by a database while maintaining a reasonable resolution to be useful for weather alerting.","Tile Code Algorithms","In order to understand the concept of the tile code and its resolution one must first understand the length of a degree and arc minute on the planet. An arc minute, upon which the tile code is based, represents a square box or Tile on a Mercator projection of the curved planet. In reality, a one (1) arc minute by one (1) arc minute box is not a square but a four sided polygon in which all of the sides are slightly curved. But for the purposes of this document, the arc minute or Tile will be represented in its Mercator square form.","Degree and \u201cArc Minute\u201d Length","The length of an arc degree of north-south latitude difference, \u0394 \u03c6, is about 60 nautical miles, 111 kilometers or 69 statute miles at any latitude; more exactly, a degree of latitude at the pole covers about 1 percent more distance than a degree at the equator. The length of an arc degree of east-west longitude difference, roughly cos(\u03c6) \u0394\u03bb, is about the same at the Equator as the north-south, reducing to zero at the poles.","In the case of a spheroid, a meridian and its anti-meridian form an ellipse, from which an expression for the length of an arc degree of latitude is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"180"}},{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c6"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"180"}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c6"}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c6"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}},"br":{}},"Along the Equator, east to west, N equals the equatorial radius. The radius of curvature at a right angle to the Equator, north to south, M, is 43 km shorter, hence the length of an arc degree of latitude at the Equator is about 0.7 km less than the length of an arc degree of longitude at the Equator. N and M are equal at the poles, where they are about 64 km greater than the north-south equatorial radius of curvature because the polar \u201cradius\u201d is 21 km less than the equatorial radius. The shorter polar \u201cradii\u201d indicate that the northern and southern hemispheres are flatter, making their radii of curvature longer. This flattening also \u2018pinches\u2019 the north-south equatorial radius of curvature, making it 43 km less than the equatorial radius. Both radii of curvature are perpendicular to the plane tangent to the surface of the ellipsoid at all latitudes, directed toward a point on the polar axis in the opposite hemisphere (except at the Equator where both point toward Earth's center). The east-west radius of curvature reaches the axis, whereas the north-south radius of curvature is shorter at all latitudes except the poles.","The WGS84 ellipsoid, used by all GPS devices, uses an equatorial radius of 6378137.0m and an inverse flattening, (1\/f), of 298.257223563, hence its polar radius is 6356752.3142m and its first eccentricity squared is 0.00669437999014. The more recent but little used IERS 2003 ellipsoid provides equatorial and polar radii of 6378136.6 and 6356751.9m, respectively, and an inverse flattening of 298.25642. Lengths of degrees on the WGS84 and IERS 2003 ellipsoids are the same when rounded to six significant digits. An appropriate calculator for any latitude is provided by the U.S. government's National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA).","Another approximation of a longitudinal degree at latitude \u03c6, is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"180"}},{"mi":"\u03b1cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03b2"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["tan","\u03b2"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mfrac":{"mi":["b","\u03b1"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["tan","\u03c6"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},"This gives the same distance as the formula above, which (aside from rounding) is the exact distance along a parallel of latitude; getting the distance along the shortest route will be more work, but those two distances are always within 0.6 meter of each other if the two points are one degree of longitude apart.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"Surface",{},"Surface"]},{"entry":[{},"Surface","distance","Surface","distance"]},{"entry":[{},"distance","per 1","distance","per 1"]},{"entry":[{},"per 1\u00b0","minute","per 1\u00b0","minute"]},{"entry":[{},"change in","change in","change in","change in"]},{"entry":["Latitude","Latitude","Latitude","Longitude","Longitude"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u20020\u00b0","110.574 km","1.843 km","111.320 km\u2002","1.855 km"]},{"entry":["15\u00b0","110.649 km","1.844 km","107.551 km\u2002","1.793 km"]},{"entry":["30\u00b0","110.852 km","1.848 km","96.486 km","1.608 km"]},{"entry":["45\u00b0","111.132 km","1.852 km","78.847 km","1.314 km"]},{"entry":["60\u00b0","111.412 km","1.857 km","55.800 km","0.930 km"]},{"entry":["75\u00b0","111.618 km","1.860 km","28.902 km","0.482 km"]},{"entry":["90\u00b0","111.694 km","1.862 km","\u20020.000 km","0.000 km"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Converting Longitude and Latitude to Tile Codes","Since the resolution of 1 arc minute\u00d71 arc minute is being used to represent a tile (approximately 1.8 km\u00d71.8 km at the equator), the tile unit of the X-Y Cartesian coordinate system will start from latitude 0 degrees and longitude 0 degrees. The range of the contiguous United States (CONUS) domain ranges from 130\u00b0 to 60\u00b0 W longitude and 25\u00b0 to 50\u00b0 N latitude. This yields 4200\u00d71500 possible tiles to cover the United States and 21,600\u00d721,600 tiles to cover the entire planet. Furthermore, many of these tiles, approximately 70 percent, would almost never be used since terrain such as desert, tundra, and water-covered areas are not inhabited.\n\n","a. Unit: minute","b. X axis: longitude\n\n","Case 1\n\n","Case 2\n\n","Converting National Weather Service (NWS) Universal Geographic Codes to Tile Codes","Since the National Weather Service issues alerts based on VTEC bound boxes, Zone codes or County codes, the Alert Service will need to convert the geographic areas into a collection of \u201cTiles\u201d used to approximately represent the alert locations.","In the cases of UGC Zone and county codes, these are done by preprocessing a vector-based \u201cshape file\u201d, which can be found at http:\/\/www.nws.noaa.gov\/geodata\/catalog\/wsom\/html\/pubzone.htm, that represents the National Weather Service UGC (Universal Geographic Code) locations for all known locations and generating tiles and storing them into a database that cross references the UGC code to a collection of tiles. This way alert requests received to the server will take the alert UGC code and perform a database query that matches the UGC codes and retrieves \u201cTile\u201d codes. These tile codes are then in turn used to perform queries on the Target device and location database, which is indexed by Tile Codes to retrieve target alerting devices to receive notifications in turn alerting the user of those devices. This will maintain accuracy within 2 miles of the target location while maintaining high speed response time to a larger volume of devices.","The illustration of  shows two (2) UGC areas (VAZ501 and VAZ502) with an example of a tile grid overlay over the image. The map area  designates the VAZ501 area and the map area  designates the VAZ502 area. Each of the tiles overlaying at least a portion of a map area would be associated with the corresponding UGC areas. Thus it can be seen that the tiles of the collection of Tiles  overlay or border at least a portion of the VAZ501 area, while the tiles of the collection of Tiles  overlay or border at least a portion of the VAZ502 area. As show below also, there are several tiles  on the border of these areas that belong to both UGC areas.","In the case of VTEC bounding boxes, a VTEC polygon is approximately converted into a collection or set of tiles using the maximum and minimum latitude and longitude construct a collection of Tile Codes associated with the VTEC alert. Once this is done, the Tiles are further reduced to closely match the polygon before the query to the database is made. The result of the database query yields a collection of tiles that can yield alerting device described in the previous paragraph.","Functional Description","Certain embodiments described herein use a device, such as a mobile device, with Location Based Services, a Device Location Database, a Notification Server\/Services that pushes notification to a device (such as by way of example and not limitations, SMS and\/or Push notification services like the Apple Push Notification Service), Alert Servers, and Text-to-Speech Server. Below is a flow of events that further describe the methodology, system, apparatus and device functionality.","An exemplary high-level system flow diagram is shown in system  of . System Flow diagram  of  illustrates the flow that an alert notification, also referred to as a message, text message, notification or a notification message, follows through the system  of . Note that the encircled numerals , , , , , , , and in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","As used herein, the terms service and server may be used interchangeably. For example, an Alert Processing Service may make use of an Alert Processing Server and the Alert Processing Server itself may provide the Alert Processing Service. A similar observation may be made about Alert Notification Server and Alert Notification Service.","A system block diagram is shown in . With reference to the system flow of  and the System Block Diagram  of , the following functional descriptions are consistent with certain embodiments described herein. Note that the encircled numerals - in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","Referring now to , an exemplary device flow diagram  is shown in accordance with various embodiments. Alert delivery take places in two (2) phases: the registration phase and the alert notification phase. This section describes the registration and delivery of alert notifications to the device. There are two (2) different methods of each phase of delivering the alert to the device. These methods are separated by the device platforms that are being targeted, which may include public and third-party proprietary communication protocols and systems. For example, Apple, Inc.'s iPhone Apple Push Notification Service (APNS), Short Messaging Service (SMS), Real Simple Syndication (RSS) having text plus metadata, and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) communication protocols are just a few possible services contemplated. This does not preclude the addition of other text-based alert delivery mechanisms from being used in the future. Thus any text-message based service or system that can be sent to a mobile device as well as any event-driven message service that can be used to deliver a text-string to the mobile device is contemplated.","Referring now to Block , an Alert Message Event, such receipt by the device of an alert text notification message, occurs and at Block , the device initiates a request to determine the device location. This may be provided from a GPS or LBS service, for example, as shown at Block . At Block  the inquiry for the device is whether there is an alert or warning received for this location. Concurrently, weather information is retrieved by the device at Block  with input of the determined device location; retrieve information may include current weather conditions, forecast information, and alert information of the location. The current device location is converted to a tile and corresponding device tile code as previously discussed. At Decision Block , the inquiry is whether the event is an alert event; in other words, is the event one that rises to the level so that an alert or warning or other information is associated with it. If yes, then at Block , the alert information received by the phone is parsed and stored in an Alert database . This Alert database  may or may not be stored on the Device itself. If the inquiry at Decision Block  yielded a negative response, then at Block , the device queries the alerts in the Alert Database  for the current device location that have not yet been displayed by the Device, such as to a user of the device via a screen shot or other user interface of the device. As previously noted, a server query of a system server may be undertaken to obtained detailed alert data including Media Feeds via URLS. The database query of the Alert Database will identify one or more alerts stored in the alert database that have one or more alert geographical tile codes that match the device tile code representative of the current location of the device that have not been presented to a user of the device through a user interface of the device. Thus a search of all of the alert tile codes stored in the Alert Database for the device tile code will identify the alerts of interest to the device at its current location. The inquiry at Decision Block  is whether the query identifies any alert in the Alert Database  that fits the query made at Block . If yes, then at Block , the user of the device is notified of the new Alert by prompting the user to view the newly identified Alert. If the user chooses to view the alert at Decision Block , then the alert is displayed for viewing on the device and the user is prompted with an option to listen to audio describing the alert, to view on a map a radar view of the alert, and\/or to watch a local video\/audio broadcast concerning the alert.","Referring back to Decision Block , if no alert in the Alert Database  is found that fits the query at Block , then there is the option at Decision Block  of waking the device to listen to current location conditions while playing to the user an audio describing the current conditions associated with the current location of the phone at Block .","Registration Process","The goal of the registration phase discussed above is to notify the alert network that a device is available to be tracked and\/or to receive alert messages. In this process, the device location and identification are collected and stored in the Device Location Database . Once the device location is collected, the system will then assign the device to a geographical region representing the location of the device called a Tile (described above), to create a virtual world grid having a sequence of 13 characters in length, where each square on the grid would represent approximately 2 miles square. As a result, this would make it easier for computing systems to maintain reasonable accuracy for the data while maintaining an efficient, easily searchable cache for alert data of interest, such as weather data.","Referring now to flow diagram  , an exemplary registration process in which tile code information is used is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments. Note that the encircled numerals - in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","Registration Authorization\/Alert Authorization","The goal of the registration authentication is to protect the privacy of device user(s) from someone requesting information about alerts at their device locations, thereby making it possible for unwanted information about the users' location to be accidentally revealed.","An exemplary Alert Authorization Process  is illustrated in the flow diagram of , in which an exemplary device is a mobile phone. Note that the encircled numerals - in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","Receiving an Alert","The Alert Notification phase is the process that enables a device such as a mobile phone to actually receive an emergency alert from the Alert Service Provider . The Alert Service Provider may be a Weather Alert Service Provider as was previously discussed.","This process begins when the Alert Service Provider  receives an emergency alert from an alerting source or system, which can be, by way of example and not limitation, The National Weather Service, US Geological Survey, US Department of Justice, Center for Disease Control, Lightning Decision server, Traffic Network, et cetera. Referring now to flow diagram  of , the process by which an alert is delivered and processed by the Alert Service Provider will be further described. Note that the encircled numerals - in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","Alert Notification","The Alert Notification phase enables a device to actually receive notification of an alert available to be retrieved from the Alert Service Provider . Referring now to , an exemplary alert notification process flow  of how the alert is sent to a device from the alert server is illustrated. Note that the encircled numerals - and , , , and in  correspond to the flow numerals below:\n\n","Retrieve Alert Media","One requirement of the Multimedia Alert System may be to link broadcasts of both audio and video supplied by third-party broadcasters to severe weather events. Too support this, each third-party broadcaster is required to record video and\/or audio clips in formats such as Apple, Inc.'s iPhone or Google's Android platforms, or other platforms of interest can render and store an entry in a Media RSS file sorted according to time in descending order.","Thus, each entry in the Media RSS file may contain at least the following information: a thumbnail representing a first frame of video or the media clip; a brief description of the media clip; and a URL needed to retrieve the media clip.","Referring now to flow diagram  of , a retrieve media alert flow in accordance with various embodiments is disclosed. Note that the encircled numerals - in  correspond to the flow numerals below. Thus, when the user selects to view the local video about the alert, the following occurs in connection with certain embodiments:\n\n","Data Storage","Data for use in accordance with various embodiments of the Multimedia Alert Method, System, Apparatus and Device may be organized into two (2) databases: the Alert Database  and the Device Location Database . The data sets in each database may be as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0205"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Alert Database","Device Database"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Alert Table:","Device Location Database"]},{"entry":["Alert ID: auto number (key)","Table:"]},{"entry":["Full Text of NWS alert - NWS","Device Identifier"]},{"entry":["Alert","APN Device ID (Used with"]},{"entry":["Title of NWS alert - NWS","iPhone Only): string"]},{"entry":["Header","Tile Code: string"]},{"entry":["Text Body of NWS alert -","Media Database Table:"]},{"entry":["NWS Alert Text (between","id: auto number"]},{"entry":["headers and \u2018&&\u2019)","Tile Code: string"]},{"entry":["Event Identifier of the alert -","Media Metadata URL: string"]},{"entry":["VTEC Header","Target Device Database Table:"]},{"entry":["Sequence number representing","id: auto number"]},{"entry":["revision\/update number of alert -","Registered Device Identifier:"]},{"entry":["Auto Generated","string"]},{"entry":["Issue Time of the Alert - VTEC","Target Device Identifier: string"]},{"entry":["Last Update Time of the Alert -","UGC Code Table:"]},{"entry":["NWS Header","id: auto number"]},{"entry":["Expiration Time of the Alert -","NWS UGC County Code: string"]},{"entry":["VTEC","Tile Code: string"]},{"entry":"County Code of the Alert -"},{"entry":"NWS Location Header"},{"entry":"Phenomena Type -VTEC"},{"entry":"Significance Flag - VTEC"},{"entry":"Lat\/Long Text Field -"},{"entry":"LAT . . . LON statement"},{"entry":"Alert Location Table:"},{"entry":"ID: auto number key"},{"entry":"Alert ID: foreign key (number)"},{"entry":"Tile Code: string (key with"},{"entry":"duplicates)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Battery Management","Based on battery status of a Device, a device application may alert the user to one or more features of the application that will consume significant amount of power thus allowing the user to prolong battery life in critical situations. For example, such low battery alerts may notify the user when they:\n\n","An exemplary Battery Management flow diagram  is illustrated in . At Block , a check for power availability in the device battery is undertaken. If at Decision Block  it is determined that the Device battery power level is less than some threshold, such as less than 40%, for example, then at Block , the user is prompted to activate a power saver mode of the Device. At Decision Block , if the user chooses to enter\/activate the Device's power saver mode, then at Block  various system flags may be set to activate the power saver mode. As shown, some examples of power saver mode actions may be to play audio only, reduce the number of GPS queries undertaken, reduce the brightness of the Device screen to some level, such as 50%, for example, if supported by the Device.","If the current battery power level of the Device is not below the threshold, then the flow continues to Block  to schedule a timer to wake-up the Device, such as in 30 minutes. The device is then put into its sleep mode at Block  until the timer wakes it up. The Device wakes-up at Block ; this may occur by operation of the timer or upon power-up of the Device.","Power conservation of the Device may be triggered upon a request of the location of the Device. At Decision Block , the inquiry after a location request might be whether the device battery power level is less than or equal to a threshold, such as 60%. If yes, than at Block , LBS or cell tower triangulation may be used to lower the accuracy obtained in the location determination. The LBS request is made at Block . Again, this level of decreased accuracy may be perfectly acceptable within lesser degree of accuracy needed for the Tile Code regime. If this is not acceptable, than at Block , GPS is used and the accuracy achievable with GPS location determination may be set.","Lightning Alerts","In accordance with various embodiments, the lightning alert is generated based on the probability that lightning will strike a given location based on data. These alerts are delivered to the alert system from system servers at an Alert Service Provider and other lightning networks.","How Lightning Alerts are Triggered","Lightning information is gathered by lightning detectors from third-party networks and that information is supplied to the Alert Service Provider for analysis. The information supplied from the lightning networks given the approximation of the location of lightning strikes in longitude and latitude coordinates along with the time that the strike was recorded. The lightning alert is triggered based upon the frequency or strikes within a given time period at a given location.","An exemplary lighting prediction flow diagram  is illustrated in . At Block , data is received from lightning networks, source networks for lightning information. At Block , a prediction of lightning activity or events, such as lighting strikes, consisting of geographical areas of lightning activity, is undertaken. The geographical areas of the lightning activity is converted to Tile Sets and corresponding Tile Code information at Block . At Block , the Device Location Database  is queries for matching Tile information. At Block , one or more lightning prediction alerts may be transmitted to target Devices having matching Tile information. The Device receives the lightning prediction alert at Block . The Alert may be stored in the local Alert Database  at Block . At Decision Block , the inquiry is whether the immediate or current Device location falls within a tile of the lightning prediction alert. If so, then the user of the Device is alerted at Block . If not, than the lightning prediction alert is ignored at Block .","Referring now , a flowchart of a lightning prediction flow , in accordance with other various representative embodiments, is shown. At Block , the Alert Processing Server receives lightning prediction data from an alert provider or algorithm and that lightning prediction data is used to define the lightning prediction. At Block , the lightning prediction includes valuable information, such as area of lightning threat, severity of lightning threat, and the ETA\/ETD of the lighting threat. At Block , the Alert Notification Server converts the area of threat to tile code information, as previously discussed. At Block , the target device database is queried for matching tile information. The lightning prediction alert is transmitted to one or more target devices at Block .","Device Graphical User Interface","Examples of user interfaces, with description, for a user of a device, shown as a mobile phone, are provided in the screen shots of . The screen shots are generated, controlled and rendered to a user of the mobile phone by a weather alert application running on the mobile phone.","Referring now to , an illustration of a mobile device that is under control of a weather application to operate as a weather radio to provide weather information and alerts to a user of the mobile phone via a user interface is shown. The alert application running on the mobile phone causes a splash screen to be displayed to a user of the device that may have information such as corporate branding and sponsorship branding displayed as shown. Corporate and sponsorship branding are useful in partnering with sponsors or third-party local, regional or national media providers to provide alerts. This screen may appear if the user launches the application without an alert, such as a severe weather alert waking up the phone via a pop-up screen.","Referring now to , a screen shot of a mobile phone waking-up from an existing state of the phone can be seen. The existing state of the phone may be operation of another application of the phone. When on, the mobile phone wakes up when a severe weather alert is received by the phone, such as via Push Notification in the case of an iPhone. The audio portion of the alert is provided first. Upon the phone waking up for the alert, a number of auditory sounds, such as three beeps, may be sounded, followed by playing of the alert summary until the user selects \u201cview\u201d to view the alert on the alert detail screen, where the alert related to this pop-up will be highlighted, or until the user selects to \u201cclose\u201d the alert. Only the summary of the alert is played in this pop-up until the user selects to learn more about the alert. In this particular example, the following alert summary is read or played audibly for the user of the device:","\u201cA Tornado Warning for Norman, Okla. is in effect until Monday, May 10, 2010 at 05:27:00 PM CST.\u201d","The main device volume may be lowered (if not silent) and the alert audio volume increased so that the alert summary will be more readily heard. The background for the alert box or panel may be semi-transparent as shown. If desired, a background color for the alert box may be chosen, such as red.","Referring now to , a weather alert list screen that lists alerts that are available for viewing is illustrated. A user has navigated to this screen by selecting the View button on a pop-up alert and the related alert will be highlighted in the listing of alerts. In this drawing, the alert box provides important alert information to the phone user. In the alert box, five menu control buttons are displayed along the bottom of the alert box, from left to right: an Alert Button, a Map\/Radar button, a Media (video) button, a My Places button, and a Setup button. The Alert Button when selected allows a viewer to see a listing of available alerts for the current location, as shown in this drawing. The Map\/Radar button can be selected to show radar and map information for an alert area. The Video button can be selected to see\/hear live streaming video and\/or audio about a selected alert if available. The My Places button at the bottom of the alert box allows a user to select and control locations of interest. The Setup button allows the user to select settings for the alert application, such as weather settings, as will be described.","It can be seen that the Alert Button is selected and the weather alert list screen lists three alerts for the current device location: a wind advisory, a thunderstorm warning, and forecasts for the location. Any of these three alert notifications can be selected to access more detailed information. It can be seen that although the alerts are listed for the current location, the forward- and backward-arrows indicate that the user can scroll through other locations if desired. The My Places button at the bottom of the alert box allows a user to select and control locations of interest. The user can additionally scroll down the list in the alert panel to see additional alerts.","Also as part of the alert box, the user can access local emergency services by activating the 911 alert button. The user can select the 911 button to launch a standard emergency dialer with the needed 911 number pre-filled. The user would then have to only select the (green) call button to activate a call to emergency services. In some instances, the 911 button may only appear if there is an alert for the device's current location; otherwise, a \u201ccall contacts\u201d button may be provided, as illustrated in another drawing.","Corporate branding is shown and a user may select corporate branding if they wish to visit a corporate website, by launching their browser. Sponsorship branding may also be shown.","The weather alert list screen of  provides a listing of available weather alerts relevant to a current location in Norman, Okla. In this particular example, the available alerts of the listing are: a wind advisory, a thunderstorm warning, and an option to listen to NOAA alerts and forecasts. As illustrated, the alert box or panel may contain a button by which contact information may be accessed. It is noted that a contacts button may be placed in any screen shot of the alert application as desired.","Once a user has selected to learn more about an alert listed in the alert listing of , a weather alert detail screen is displayed. Referring now to , the text detail of a flood warning is displayed in the alert box. Detailed alert information about the flood, such as time of alert, duration of alert, location of alert, severity, etc. are provided. The alert information is displayed as text in the alert panel and the user may scroll through this content as needed. The Select button may be selected to return to the alert list screen. It can be seen that the menu control buttons listed in the alert listing screen of  are not present, in order to maximize display area in the alert box. Also, the user may not wish to go to a different mode of the alert application from the alert detail screen so it is not necessary to provide the menu control buttons here.","The screen shot of  provides an alternate way in which a user may navigate through alerts. A Flood warning is the alert type, and a user may navigate to play\/view previous or next alerts by touching the backwards or forwards play button. Touching the Done button will return the user to the Alert List of a previous screen.","Next, as illustrated in the screen shot of , selection of the Video menu button of the Alert box displays for the user the available videos for a location, such as Atlanta, Ga., in this example. The available media options are listed as: no live videos available, a video on winter weather preparedness, and a video on tornado preparedness. Other types of audio\/visual information may be listed and accessed if desired, such as photos, audio, streaming audio, etc.","Referring now to , the My Places menu control button of the alert box accesses locations or places stored in the alert application of the phone and provides the opportunity to add new locations to be monitored or cancel\/delete locations. In this particular example, a location of Orlando, Fla. is stored in the application. This allows a user to the alert application to receive alert information about Orlando as a stored and monitored location. This location may be deleted by activating the delete location button and additional information about the location or editing of the location may be accomplished by choosing to view additional location information about Orlando. Moreover, selection of the add a location button will bring up a screen that will allow a new location to be added to My Places. Touching the Done button will allow a user to close settings, returning to the previously viewed screen. As shown in , a new location may be added by entering a city and state, a postal (zip) code, an airport code, geographical location, or other point of interest (POI).  shows entry of a city in the search\/edit field through use of the keyboard interface of the user interface in the alert box. The user types in the name of a city, postal code, airport code, geographical location, or other POI in the search edit field. In , selection of the cancel button returns the user to the previously viewed screen. Also, selection of the Find Me button of the alert box enables the user to find their current location using the GPS capabilities of the mobile device.","Referring now to the map panel screenshots of , pressing the Map\/Radar menu button of the alert box allows the user to view radar and map data about a selected alert. A user can navigate to this screen by touching the Map menu button of the alert box. As indicated in , there may be different regions of an alert, each corresponding to the level of severity of the warning. Thus, locations with a Watch may be shown with a yellow color or indicator, locations with a Warning may be shown with a red color or indicator, and locations with neither Watches nor Warnings may have blue color or indicator. As shown in , a geographical area subject to Watches\/Warnings is outlined on the radar map.","A user may touch the play\/stop button to play or stop animating radar in the alert box. The information \u201ci\u201d button may be touched to change map settings, such as to choose the layers to be shown on the radar map, etc. The refresh button may be touched to refresh the map. The user may touch the Alert button to return to the alert listing screen of the alert box.","Referring now to , selection of the Setup menu button by the user allows the user to control certain setting of alerts, such as turning alerts on and off. There may be various alert settings of the alert application which the user may set by appropriate selection of alert settings. As shown in this example, a user may choose to turn ON or OFF the following alert settings: Ice and Fog, Storm and Tornadoes, Tornado Watch, Tornado Warning, Thunderstorm Watch, Winter and Frost, Winter Storm Watch. There may be any number of additional alert settings provided to the user by the alert application.","In accordance with various embodiments presented herein, a next generation mobile weather radio\/emergency alerting system that will enable a mobile user to receive audio alerts, like the NOAA Weather Radio Network, visual alerts, geographic representation of the location of alerts, and video associated with alerts issued by organizations including the National Weather Service, FCC Emergency Alert System, and the Lightning Prediction Alert Service is provided.","In addition to allowing the user to receive alerts, the Mobile Weather Radio, using the Tile System, will increase the accuracy of alerts that notify the user from a 40 mile radius to a 1 mile radius. This will eliminate a whole series of issues around the NOAA Weather Radios where the user could be woken up or alerted for a condition or threat affecting a location up to 80 miles away.","The weather radio also can track a set of location-enabled devices for a user. The set of devices being tracked can include a device being carried by friends (when they allow it), the user's own device, or devices tracking assets. This tracking is done using the Tile structure insuring that the same accuracy is applied if the device is in motion or stationary.","Another primary benefit gained by issuing audio alerts using mobile devices is that the application is simple to setup, mobile once setup, and more likely to be near a person using the device when an alert is issued.","Therefore, at least the following characteristics or features of the various embodiments of Multimedia Alerting described herein are believed to be novel and therefore patentably distinct in accordance with the various embodiments:\n\n","It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement, in conjunction with certain non-processor circuits, some, most, or all of the functions described herein. The non-processor circuits may include, but are not limited to, a receiver, a transmitter, a radio, signal drivers, clock circuits, power source circuits, and user input devices. As such, these functions may be interpreted as a method to perform functions in accordance with certain embodiments consistent with the present invention. Alternatively, some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions, or in one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course, a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus, methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further, it is expected that one of ordinary skill, notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by, for example, available time, current technology, and economic considerations, when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments based upon use of a programmed processor. However, the invention should not be so limited, since the present invention could be implemented using hardware component equivalents such as special purpose hardware and\/or dedicated processors which are equivalents to the invention as described and claimed. Similarly, general purpose computers, microprocessor based computers, micro-controllers, optical computers, analog computers, dedicated processors and\/or dedicated hard wired logic may be used to construct alternative equivalent embodiments of the present invention.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a program flow and associated data used to implement the embodiments described above can be implemented using various forms of storage such as Read Only Memory (ROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM); non-volatile memory (NVM); mass storage such as a hard disc drive, floppy disc drive, optical disc drive; optical storage elements, magnetic storage elements, magneto-optical storage elements, flash memory, core memory and\/or other equivalent storage technologies without departing from the present invention. Such alternative storage devices should be considered equivalents.","Various embodiments described herein are implemented using programmed processors executing programming instructions that are broadly described above in flow chart form that can be stored on any suitable electronic storage medium or transmitted over any suitable electronic communication medium. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the processes described above can be implemented in any number of variations and in many suitable programming languages without departing from the present invention. For example, the order of certain operations carried out can often be varied, additional operations can be added or operations can be deleted without departing from the invention. Error trapping can be added and\/or enhanced and variations can be made in user interface and information presentation without departing from the present invention. Such variations are contemplated and considered equivalent.","In the foregoing specification, specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However, one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly, the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense, and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits, advantages, solutions to problems, and any element(s) that may cause any benefit, advantage, or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical, required, or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.","The representative embodiments, which have been described in detail herein, have been presented by way of example and not by way of limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made in the form and details of the described embodiments resulting in equivalent embodiments that remain within the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings provide visual representations which will be used to more fully describe various representative embodiments and can be used by those skilled in the art to better understand the representative embodiments disclosed and their inherent advantages. In these drawings, like reference numerals identify corresponding elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 12-24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 25"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
