---
title: Intrusion detection system alerts mechanism
abstract: A system and method for analyzing Intrusion Detection System (IDS) alert data associated with a computer network is described. The method includes applying first association rules to obtained IDS alert data associated with a computer network and processing the obtained IDS alert data with the first association rules. Analyst feedback data associated with the processed obtained IDS alert data is received, and a training data set from the analyst feedback data is received. New association rules are determined based upon the training data set, and the new association rules are outputted to a display of a computing device. Outputting the new association rules may include outputting patterns within the IDS alert data of false positive alerts. The new association rules may be applied back to the obtained IDS alert data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103612&OS=08103612&RS=08103612
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08103612
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/948,538, filed Nov. 30, 2007, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Generally speaking, an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is a system, which detects unusual and\/or hostile activities in a computer network. IDSs detect and\/or prevent activities that may compromise system security, and\/or an attempted hacking of a component within the network while in progress. IDSs provide a view of unusual activity and issue alerts notifying administrators and\/or block a suspected connection altogether.","The false positive rate is a fundamental metric used by the Intrusion Detection System (IDS) industry to measure the performance of an Intrusion Detection System. Under the current state of IDS, it is still difficult for an IDS product to obtain an absolute low false positive rate.","For an entity, there may be a huge amount of security data created by various Intrusion Detection System (IDS)\/Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) systems. Analysts may analyze alerts data from the security data for long periods of time, including years. Such alert data may including a large number of false positives.","With a large number of false positives to analyze, true negatives are missed in the analysis. Currently there is no method or system for eliminating the false positive to improve the efficiency of the alerts.","Due to the characters of security alerts data set, the value of variables is more than often categorical rather than numerical, also, alerts may have many different attributes depending on the availability of background knowledge and the type of alert itself. This makes a classical supervised learning method such as a decision tree, a neural network, and RIPPER rule learner difficult to apply. The relevance of each independent variable to the target variable varies with the type of alerts, which make the traditional feature selection difficult. For example, even within a same data set, alerts may have different set of dependent attributes (features) based on the type of alerts, e.g., whether it is an alert on application vulnerability exploit or network scan.","With respect to type of IDS alert, generally, there are 4 outcomes for an alert:","True positive\u2014IDS alert is identified correctly that it is an attack.","True negative\u2014IDS alert is identified correctly that it is not an attack.","False positive\u2014IDS alert is identified incorrectly as a true attack when it is not a true attack.","False negative\u2014IDS alert is identified incorrectly as not an attack when it is a true attack.","Finding an effective method to learn from the history training data, and thus improving the performance of an Intrusion Detection System and analyzing process is needed.","In light of the foregoing background, the following presents a simplified summary of the present disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the present disclosure. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the present disclosure or to delineate the scope of the present disclosure. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the present disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.","Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a method and system for analyzing Intrusion Detection System (IDS) alert data associated with a computer network is described. The method may include applying first association rules to obtained IDS alert data associated with a computer network and processing the obtained IDS alert data with the first association rules. Analyst feedback data associated with the processed obtained IDS alert data may be received, and a training data set from the analyst feedback data may be received. New association rules may be determined based upon the training data set, and the new association rules are outputted to a display of a computing device.","In accordance with other aspects of the present disclosure, outputting new association rules may include outputting patterns within the IDS alert data of false positive alerts. Still further, the new association rules may be applied back to the obtained IDS alert data.","In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, another method for analyzing Intrusion Detection System (IDS) alert data associated with a computer network is described. The method may include receiving a training data set with a single target variable and a group of categorical independent variables. For a target variable T, a variable set V={V, V, . . . V} and a cluster set for variable V={C, C, . . . Cj}, where jis the total number of clusters for variable V, each variable Vmay be clustered. Selected variables may be received for processing, and a combination depth of 1 may be set. For each cluster Cof the selected variable V, each record in the training data set where record[V]=Cand record[target]=T may be checked. A new association rule C\u2192T and purity is equated to m\/n may be generated, where n is the count of records with record [V]=C, and m is the count of records with record [V]=Cand record[target]=T.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","In the following description of the various embodiments, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["101","101","103","105","107","109","115"]},"I\/O  may include a microphone, keypad, touch screen, and\/or stylus through which a user of device  may provide input, and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual, audiovisual and\/or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory  and\/or storage to provide instructions to processor  for enabling server  to perform various functions. For example, memory  may store software used by the server , such as an operating system , application programs , and an associated database . Alternatively, some or all of server  computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware (not shown). As described in detail below, the database  may provide centralized storage of account information and account holder information for the entire business, allowing interoperability between different elements of the business residing at different physical locations.","The server  may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers, such as terminals  and . The terminals  and  may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the server . The network connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the server  may include a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well-known protocols such as TCP\/IP, Ethernet, FTP, HTTP and the like is presumed, and the system can be operated in a client-server configuration to permit a user to retrieve web pages from a web-based server. Any of various conventional web browsers can be used to display and manipulate data on web pages.","Additionally, an application program  used by the server  according to an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure may include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication, such as email, short message service (SMS), and voice input and speech recognition applications.","Computing device  and\/or terminals  or  may also be mobile terminals including various other components, such as a battery, speaker, and antennas (not shown).","The present disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the present disclosure include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The present disclosure may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The present disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","Referring to , an illustrative system  for implementing methods according to the present disclosure is shown. As illustrated, system  may include one or more workstations . Workstations  may be local or remote, and are connected by one or communications links  to computer network  that is linked via communications links  to server . In system , server  may be any suitable server, processor, computer, or data processing device, or combination of the same. Server  may be used to process the instructions received from, and the transactions entered into by, one or more participants.","Computer network  may be any suitable computer network including the Internet, an intranet, a wide-area network (WAN), a local-area network (LAN), a wireless network, a digital subscriber line (DSL) network, a frame relay network, an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) network, a virtual private network (VPN), or any combination of any of the same. Communications links  and  may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations  and server , such as network links, dial-up link's, wireless links, hard-wired links, etc.","As understood by those skilled in the art, the steps that follow in the Figures may be implemented by one or more of the components in  and\/or other components, including other computing devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["301","303","305","309","307"]},"Proceeding to step , manual analysis on the outliers  may be performed. Step  may be performed by analysts affiliated with an entity that obtains the IDS alert data or an outside company with analysts to analyze the IDS alert data of the entity. Validation of the outliers occurs as part of the manual analysis . Analyst feedback on the manual analysis of the outliers data is obtained in step . The feedback data from the analyst may be inserted into a training data set in step . In addition, contextual data of a group of categorical independent variables  may be inserted into the manual analysis step .","Both the contextual data in  and the training data set in  are utilized in step  as part of the machine learning algorithm in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. Given a security alerts training data set, the machine learning algorithm tool performs an exhaustive heuristic search in the data set. The tool searches through every possible combination. An output becomes a pattern in the format of associated rules quantified by purity. The purity of each association rule indicates how likely the alert is of being a true positive. A descending sorted list of association rules produces discernable patterns and those patterns demonstrate the confidence of a true positive in descending order.","The output of step  may be inserted into step  to tweak analytics rule-set associated with processing of the IDS alert data in step . The analytics rule-set in  is feedback into the process as an input to step . In addition, the output of the tool in  may be feedback as an input to step  as an edit to policy threshold or signature used in obtaining IDS alert data from the network . Such feedback allows for more proper processing of security IDS alert data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Illustrative Format of an IDS Alert Training Data Set"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"55.37mm","wi":"75.10mm","file":"US08103612-20120124-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"table","img-format":"tif"}}}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"As should be understood by those skilled in the art, for illustrative purposes, notations for the calculations and processes that follow may correlate to the following. A target variable is T, variable set V is {V, V, . . . V}, cluster set for variable Vis {C, C, . . . Cj}, where jis the total number of clusters for variable V. The process starts and at step , clustering is performed for each variable V. At step , variables selection occurs. Proceeding to step , the combination depth is equaled to 1. For each cluster Cof selected variable V, all the records in the data set are checked if the record [V] equals Cand the record[target] equals T. At step , an associate rule is generated. C\u2192T and purity is equated to m\/n. n is the count of records with record [V] equal to C, and m is the count of records with record [V] equal to Cand record[target] equal to T.","Proceeding to step , the combination depth is increased to 2. In step , for all two combination set {V, V} from variable set V, all the records in the data set are checked if the record [V] equals Cand the record[V] equals Cand the record[target] equals T. Cis a cluster from variable Vand Cis a cluster from variable V. At step , an associate rule is generated. [C, C]\u2192T and purity is equated to m\/n. n is the count of records with record [V] equal to Cand record [V] equal to C. m is the count of records with record [V] equal to Cand record [V] equal to Cand record[target] equal to T.","Proceeding to step , the combination depth is increased to k. In step , for all k combination set {V, V, . . . V} from variable set V, all the records in the data set are checked if the record [V] equals Cand the record[V] equals Cand . . . and the record [V] equals Cand the record[target] equals T. Cis a cluster from variable V, Cis a cluster from variable V, . . . , and Cis a cluster from variable V. At step , an associate rule is generated. [C, C, . . . , C]\u2192T and purity is equated to m\/n. n is the count of records with record [V] equal to Cand record [V] equal to Cand . . . and record [V] equal to C. m is the count of records with record [V] equal to Cand record [V] equal to Cand . . . and record and [V] equal to Crecord[target] equal to T.","Given a security alerts training data set labeled with a class label, such as false and true alerts as showed Table 2, or as shown in Table 3, and a group of independent variables, one aspect is to find a correlation between the target variable and the independent variables. The machine learning tool will do an exhaustive heuristic searching\/learning in the data set, and output the pattern in the format of association rules quantified by purity, which articulate the connections between like records, which might not be readily apparent to analysts. The purity of each association rule indicates how likely an alert is true positive (false positive) under certain condition(s). As described, the algorithm searches through every possible combination of given set of conditions and outputs the purity of that specific combination. Thus, a descending sorted list of association rules reveals the patterns that lead to true positive or false positive with descending confidence. This greatly enhances the speed with which those trained in the art can distill large data sets and increases their opportunities for discovering false negatives and eliminating false positives. The benefit of using a graphic tool to present these results to knowledgeable security analysts is helpful, since background knowledge is necessary to better interpret the nature of each rule and to tune the IDS policy in time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Illustrative IDS Alert Training Dataset with Labeled Class"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["sensor","alertName","alertTime","src","dst","srcport","dstport"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","171.159","66.179.5.2","19545","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","171.159","72.5.124.5","42254","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","171.159","72.5.124.1","32729","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","171.159","216.52.17","42392","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","171.159","216.52.17","59503","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","212.138","171.159.1","58494","80"]},{"entry":["rchvaec2","URL_Data_etc_passwd","20060801.","212.138","171.159.1","34735","80"]},{"entry":["rictvea3","Script_Shell_Command","20060801.","216.119","171.161.1","80","51456"]},{"entry":["clticet4","Script_Shell_Command","20060801.","64.233.1","171.161.2","80","58971"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"sensor","cou","protocol","rawdata","direct","Conclusion"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","4","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","7","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","3","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","4","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","2","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","1","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rchvaec2","1","TCP_HTTP","None","1","true"]},{"entry":[{},"rictvea3","4","TCP_HTTP","www.visual","0","false"]},{"entry":[{},"clticet4","4","TCP_HTTP","_group_mi","0","false"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The last column, \u201cConclusion,\u201d in Table 2 indicates whether this alert is a true positive or a false positive and is a target value. All the other information used by analysts, such as \u201csrc,\u201d \u201calertName,\u201d and \u201crawdata,\u201d are independent variables from which the conclusion is drawn.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"329pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Illustrative IDS Alert Training Dataset with Labeled Class"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["alertName","src","dst","d","sensor","time","cou","Incide","area","analystID"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["AIX_Pdnsc","159.184.22","171.169.14",{},"cltgvia2","20060302","2","8716","internal","nbasz3w"]},{"entry":["ASN1_Con","159.5.92.1","159.5.91.1",{},"clthtia4","20060407","6","8785","internal","nba53ix"]},{"entry":["BackOrific","171.178.24","171.177.11",{},"sfocamf1","20060104","1","8561","unknow","nbkgx35"]},{"entry":["ASN1_Con","159.5.91.1","159.5.91.1",{},"clthtia4","20060407","4","8786","internal","nbtz15g"]},{"entry":["ASN1_Con","159.5.91.1","159.5.91.1",{},"clthtia3","20060317","2","8750","internal","nba69aj"]},{"entry":["BADIR_23","171.159.19","171.159.19",{},"rchvaec2","20061122","17","9513","external","sec0344"]},{"entry":["ASN1_Con","159.5.91.1","159.5.91.1",{},"clthtia4","20060327","14","8765","internal","nbam7mq"]},{"entry":["ASN1_Con","159.5.91.1","159.5.91.1",{},"clthtia3","20060322","2","8759","internal","nba69aj"]},{"entry":["BADIR_10","171.159.19","171.159.19",{},"rchvaeb1","20061125","15","9525","external","nba4ipm"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"alertName","Status",".","_closeTime","closeBy","_conclusion"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"AIX_Pdnsc","Closed",{},"_Thu_Mar_02_18:","NBKGX35","_IDS_Testing"]},{"entry":[{},"ASN1_Con","Closed",{},"_Wed_Apr_12_18","NBA39QP","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"BackOrific","Closed",{},"_Fri_Jan_06_21:4","NBKKPM6","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"ASN1_Con","Closed",{},"_Wed_Apro_12_1","NBA39QP","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"ASN1_Con","Closed",{},"_Thu_Mar_23_19:","NBKCY5U","_Application_ex"]},{"entry":[{},"BADIR_23","Closed",{},"Thu_Dec_07_16:","nbawz2e","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"ASN1_Con","Closed",{},"_Fri_Mar_31_16:1","NBA69AJ","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"ASN1_Con","Closed",{},"_Thu_Mar_23_21:","NBKCY5U","_False_positive"]},{"entry":[{},"BADIR_10","Closed",{},"_Mon_Nov_27_16","None","_Reconnaissan"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In one application, a user may use any variables as a target value as long as she wants to discovery how the other variables correlate with it. She may put the target variable as the last column in the data file. For example, if \u201cconclusion\u201d is chosen to be target variables, such as a current target value is \u201cApplication exploit\u201d, \u201cdst,\u201d \u201csrc,\u201d and \u201calertName\u201d may be chosen to be independent variables. Therefore, a user may want to know \u201cwhat kind of alert from where to where always or most of time leads to an \u2018application exploit\u2019 alert.\u201d Alternatively, if the user chooses \u201csrc\u201d as a target value and \u201calertName\u201d and \u201ctime\u201d as independent variables, the user may want to know \u201cwhat type of alerts, at what time would always come from that src.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":"500"},"In this illustrative example, load button  may be an interface to load data for processing in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. Reference element  is the cluster threshold used to choose variables for processing. The cluster threshold input may be an option for a user. In one example, the cluster threshold may correlate to step  from . With respect to reference element , the combination depth, i.e., the cardinality of left hand set used in pattern searching, for processing of the clusters may be set. The combination depth is a criteria used by heuristic algorithm in deciding the recursive function depth. In one example, this reference element  may correlate to steps , , and\/or  from . With respect to reference element , the target value used in the pattern may be set here. In one example, a target value of 0 may correlate to false positive and a target value of 1 may correlate to true positive.","Basic data set information, such as the data set size, number of variables, and target variable, may be shown in data field area . Reference element  may be selected to run the processing after completing load and initial set up. Reference element  may be a button to update the input parameters so that when the \u201cRun\u201d button  is selected, new result are outputted. During and after processing, a run time log data field  may be shown. Reference element  shows a data field of clustering features for all variables used in the data set. In this illustrative example, \u201cconclusion \u201d may indicate that there are nine categories under variable \u201cconclusion,\u201d \u201cIDS Testing,\u201d \u201cFalse positive,\u201d \u201cApplication,\u201d \u201cReconnaissance,\u201d \u201cAccess auth,\u201d \u201cVirus,\u201d \u201cResearching,\u201d \u201cPolicy violation,\u201d and \u201cSecurity system.\u201d","Reference element  shows a data field of currently selected variables that are used for pattern searching. In the illustrative example provided, the currently selected variables may be specified by \u201calertName\u201d or may be selected by a user, such as an analyst, with an input device activating a cursor on a computing device. The selected variables in data field  may be selected independent variables by a user. Reference element  shows that data field  displays patterns with a percentage in excess of 60%. As should be understood by those skilled in the art, other percentages than 60% may be utilized and the present disclosure is not so limited to the examples provided herein.","Reference element  displays an output window of patterns of the security data that meet the greater than 60% setting. Within output window , patterns may be found in the format of {variable1, variable2 . . . } Target (0\/1), percentage, and total count. For example, the output shown as reference element  indicates that for all 28, the total count shown, URL_Data_etc_passwd alerts, e.g., the \u201calertName,\u201d from \u201csrc\u201d \u201c171.161.224.166,\u201d 82% of them are false positives, since a \u201c1\u201d means an index value of the target value being false positives. Thus, the alerts \u201cURL_Data_etc_passwd\u201d comes from \u201c171.161.224.166\u201d are 82% lead to a false positive alert and the total appearance of it is 28. That is, 82% of all those 28 cases are false positive alerts.","Reference element  illustrates a two-way sort button to sort the pattern window  based on percentage or percentage and total count. As should be understood by those skilled in the art, any of a number of different output sorting methods may be utilized as needed or desired and the present disclosure is not so limited to the examples provided herein. As such, these patterns from the surety data sets assist in reducing the number of false positives identified in the security data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","603","625","621","611","605","627"]},"While illustrative systems and methods as described herein embodying various aspects of the present disclosure are shown, it will be understood by those skilled in the art, that the present disclosure is not limited to these embodiments. Modifications may be made by those skilled in the art, particularly in light of the foregoing teachings. For example, each of the elements of the aforementioned embodiments may be utilized alone or in combination or subcombination with elements of the other embodiments. Aspects of the present disclosure may be used as a standard application programming interface (API) to apply it on various security data. It will also be appreciated and understood that modifications may be made without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of restrictive on the present disclosure."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of aspects of the present disclosure and the advantages thereof may be acquired by referring to the following description in consideration of the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numbers indicate like features, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
