---
title: System and method for initiating online social interactions based on conference call participation
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, computer-implemented methods, and tangible computer-readable storage media for automatically initiating online social interactions based on participation in a conference call. Audio of the conference call is analyzed for data, such as timestamps indicating when people spoke, the volume of speech, words per minute, and emotional context. This analysis determines relationships between participants, and initiates online social interactions compatible with those relationships. This initialization can take the form of a prompt, or can be performed without interruption to the participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09179002&OS=09179002&RS=09179002
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09179002
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates to initiating online social interactions based on conference call participation and more specifically to creating online social invitations based on the interactions and relationships developed during a conference call.","2. Introduction","Conference call participation is a useful tool for communicating with others and rapidly sharing ideas. Too often, however, the relationships and communication opportunities created by conference calls end with the conference call. Modern online communications tools, such as blogs, microblogs, and social networks, allow relationships and communication opportunities to persist while providing additional opportunities to build relationships, communicate, and increase the overall efficacy of users. Despite the fact that these modern communication tools exist and can aid users to continue communicating, conference call participants rarely use these tools to continue interacting with other participants.","Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.","Disclosed are systems, computer-implemented methods, and tangible computer-readable storage media for initiating online social interactions based on conference call participation. A conference call audio analysis determines the relationships between the participants. Based on those relationships, the conference call participants receive invitations to interact online with other participants. Generally, this invitation for online social interaction takes the form of an invitation to follow another participant's blog, microblog, or social networking forum.","In one aspect, conference call participants can learn of opportunities to interact online without spending time searching for the other participants online in various social media. In another aspect, the initialization can occur without the need for human guidance, operating under system settings.","In certain embodiments, determining the relationships of conference call participants and initiating online social interactions takes place in a substantively simultaneous format, using an audio stream from the conference call to analyze relationships as the call progresses. In such embodiments, the invitations to continue interacting via online mediums can be sent during the conference call, or alternatively, after the call ends. In other embodiments the analysis of the relationships occurs after the conference call based on an audio recording. In either instance, the system analyzes the relationships of the participants to one another, determines the most effective way for participants to continue their relationship, and invites those participants to interact online based on that analysis.","Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed, it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.","With reference to , an exemplary system  includes a general-purpose computing device , including a processing unit (CPU or processor)  and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory  such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM)  to the processor . The system  can include a cache  of high speed memory connected directly with, in close proximity to, or integrated as part of the processor . The system  copies data from the memory  and\/or the storage device  to the cache  for quick access by the processor . In this way, the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor  delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor  to perform various actions. Other system memory  may be available for use as well. The memory  can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device  with more than one processor  or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor  can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module, such as module  , module  , and module   stored in storage device , configured to control the processor  as well as a special-purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor  may essentially be a completely self-contained computing system, containing multiple cores or processors, a bus, memory controller, cache, etc. A multi-core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.","The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input\/output (BIOS) stored in ROM  or the like, may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device , such as during start-up. The computing device  further includes storage devices  such as a hard disk drive, a magnetic disk drive, an optical disk drive, tape drive or the like. The storage device  can include software modules , ,  for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device  is connected to the system bus  by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect, a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a non-transitory computer-readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components, such as the processor , bus , display , and so forth, to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device, such as whether the device  is a small, handheld computing device, a desktop computer, or a computer server.","Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs the hard disk , it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, cartridges, random access memories (RAMs) , read only memo (ROM) , a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like, may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. A computer-readable storage medium or device expressly excludes transitory signals per se and transitory mediums such as wires, cables, fiber optics, infrared medium, and the like. A computer-readable storage medium or device expressly excludes transitory media such as wires, cables, fiber optics, infrared medium, energy, carrier signals, electromagnetic waves, signals per se, and the like.","To enable user interaction with the computing device , an input device  represents any number of input mechanisms, such as a microphone for speech, a touch-sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input, keyboard, mouse, motion input, speech and so forth. An output device  can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances, multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface  generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.","For clarity of explanation, the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a \u201cprocessor\u201d or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware, including, but not limited to, hardware capable of executing software and hardware, such as a processor , that is purpose-built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in  may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. (Use of the term \u201cprocessor\u201d should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software.) Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and\/or digital signal processor (DSP) hardware, read-only memory (ROM)  for storing software performing the operations discussed below, and random access memory (RAM)  for storing results. Very large scale integration (VLSI) hardware embodiments, as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit, may also be provided.","The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as: (1) a sequence of computer implemented steps, operations, or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer, (2) a sequence of computer implemented steps, operations, or procedures running on a specific-use programmable circuit; and\/or (3) interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system  shown in  can practice all or part of the recited methods, can be a part of the recited systems, and\/or can operate according to instructions in the recited non-transitory computer-readable storage media. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor  to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example,  illustrates three modules Mod , Mod  and Mod  which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device  and loaded into RAM  or memory  at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer-readable memory locations.","Having discussed some basic computing components, the disclosure returns to a discussion of triggering social network interactions based on communications. A computer system similar to the system  shown in  can be configured to initiate online social interactions based on a conference call. In one embodiment, the computer system receives audio from a conference call, analyzes the call to determine the relationships between participants, and initiates online social interactions based on the relationships determined in the conference call.","The audio received by the system  can be a live audio stream, a slightly time-delayed audio stream, and\/or an audio recording. With a live or substantially live audio stream, the system  can perform the analysis to determine the relationships in near-real time and trigger social network actions and\/or suggestions during the audio stream. Alternatively, the system  can buffer or otherwise save the audio stream and postpone the analysis. Possible reasons for postponing the analysis could be system resources, desire to cross-reference with yet to be obtained information, or lack of information regarding the participant's identities. The system  can also receive a recorded audio stream from a separate recording mechanism.","Knowledge of the participants' identities becomes critical in moving from the analysis of the audio to the initiation of online social interactions. In one embodiment, the system  has knowledge of the identities of all participants upon receiving the audio. The system can associate each participant with a social networking account or address, for example. This concept can also extend to non-participants who are discussed or otherwise represented in a conference call. For example, if a senior vice president of a company is on the conference call, the senior vice president's comments and participation in the conference call can trigger social network interactions with the senior vice president and\/or with the company. The company's presence on social media can be an official Twitter account or a Facebook group page, for example.","When the system receives audio without knowing the identity or social networking accounts of at least one of the participants, the system can proceed with the analysis of the relationships, but will postpone initialization of online social interactions until the system is able to identify the necessary parties. A user can manually identify unknown participants, or an identity guessing module can perform an analysis and\/or comparison to other known identities to determine if they are a sufficient match. In one example, the system suggests an identity for unknown participants, and a user can accept or reject the suggestions. For example, if the system  knows the identity of two of three conference call participants, the system  can proceed with the analysis of the relationships between all three participants. Based on these relationships the system  can initiate online social interactions between the two known participants, but postpones interactions between either of the two known participants and the unknown conference call participant until that unknown participant is identified. Because the analysis has already occurred, upon receiving that identification information the system  is immediately able to initiate the remaining online social interactions determined by the analysis.","The system analyzes the audio to determine what type of relationship, and subsequently what type of online social interaction, to initiate. The analysis can incorporate quantifiable data from the audio to determine these relationships. Examples of quantifiable data include timestamps of when each participant spoke, how long each participant spoke for, the volume and speed of their speech, timing of speech exchanges between two or more participants, a frequency of interaction with a particular participant, externally available information describing the participants (such as a company organizational hierarchy or a set of data from a social network), and\/or an emotional analysis. The analysis can cross-reference other data sources. Examples of other data sources include sidebar communications such as instant messenger, email, or calendaring communications. Another source of information can be pre-existing online social interactions, such as a list of contacts or friends or tags of individuals in a social network. Using this data, the audio analysis classifies the relationships between participants. Examples of the types of relationships recognizable by the system include colleagues, speaker-listener, friends, family, partners, principal-agent, and employer-employee.","Once a relationship is classified, the system  determines what type of online social interaction, if any, is appropriate for that relationship, and can determine if that relationship meets a sufficient threshold to merit initialization of the appropriate online social interaction. In considering the type of online social interaction most appropriate for the relationship, certain types of online social interaction fit particular types of relationships and particular types of users better than others. For instance, familial relationships determined from a conference call generally fit social networking interactions, such as personal blogs or Facebook\u00ae, whereas professional colleagues may feel uncomfortable or awkward with that form of social interaction. Likewise, professional colleagues may feel very comfortable interacting with another via professional blogs, microblogs, or LinkedIn\u00ae accounts. Similarly, the type and amount of social interaction can be based on the respective user identities. For instance, if one of the users is a senior citizen who is only marginally comfortable on Facebook and has never even heard of Twitter, the system can refrain from making suggestions for Twitter or other social networking services that are unfamiliar to the senior citizen.","The system  can consider whether or not the relationship meets a threshold value. For example, if a conference call was 5 minutes long with only 1 primary speaker, the relationship strength and depth varies significantly from a 2 hour long conference call where two or more participants had multiple back-and-forth exchanges. While the system  can, in either instance, encourage or initialize online social interactions such as following a professional microblog, generally the latter experience would more likely prompt the system  to initialize an exchange of professional contact information such as LinkedIn\u00ae. The user of a system  can establish and modify various settings and thresholds to determine when, how, and with whom the system  initializes such interactions on the user's behalf and, in certain instances, when to accept those invitations to interact. The settings can allow the system to automatically approve or accept suggestions, or the user can manually approve the suggestions by clicking on a button or a link.","The system  can initiate online social interactions in a variety of ways. The system  can send out an invitation to a single individual or to a group to begin interacting. In other instances, the system can add the blog or microblog to a list of blogs and microblogs the user currently follows, without the need for user approval or interaction. If the system  initiates online social interactions during a live conference call, a request can come in the form of an audio prompt, either to an individual or to the entire group, or as an email. If the system  initiates the online social interactions and needs no approval, the notice can be an audio ping in the conference, possibly sent only to the individuals invited to participate in the online social interaction, or via some other device indicating that initiation of an online social interaction began.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","204","202","204","202","206","100","202","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","302","304","306","302","306","302","302","308","302","308","308","306","302","308","308","302","316","304","302"]},"Once the system  determines the types of online social interactions for each relationship, the system  initiates the online social interaction. Here, the system  corresponds through the Internet  with the social network  with which the conference call participants  are registered or through which the online social interaction is to occur. In certain instances, the system  checks to see if online social interaction between the two users pre-exists, and if so, can modify the preferred online interaction format. Alternatively, if the system  determines from the social network  that the users are already interacting on the social network , the system  can halt the process of generating a suggestion for an online social interaction or suggest a modification or enhancement to the existing interactions. If the system  does initiate an online social interaction, the notification module  can send notification  to the participants  that initiation of online social interaction occurred. In some cases, the participants  may then need to correspond with the social network  to verify the action initiated by the system . In addition to or as a replacement for these notifications, the system  can communicate directly with the social network , such as via an application programming interface (API), to establish the action. Then the social network  can notify the call participants  through its usual communication channels with the call participants .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":"402"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["402","502","506","510","514","100","100"]},"In , participant A  receives a prompt  asking if he would like to add fellow participants B and C as contacts in LinkedIn\u00ae. The prompt  can include a reason why the system  determined that LinkedIn\u00ae was an appropriate form of online social interaction. Here the prompt notes multiple interactions with other participants. Participant B  was noted conversing frequently with participant C , and receives a prompt  asking if they desire to follow C's Twitter\u00ae feed. Similarly, participant C  receives a prompt  asking if they would like to add B  as a friend on Facebook\u00ae. Participant D  receives a prompt  noting that they opened and closed the conference call, and asking if D  would like to follow the blogs of the other participants with regard to this topic. The system can suggest following an entire blog of another user or a specific subset of posts on the blog. For example, the system can suggest following only blog posts with a specific keyword or tag, or all blog posts within a specified time period.","The prompt  to participant D  illustrates that the system  can initiate multiple online social interactions for a single party. While the online social interactions included in the prompt  to D  were all for blogs, they could have been to multiple and varied forms of social interaction. In the case of more complex prompts, the user can accept the entire prompt, or can approve or reject individual portions of the prompt. The prompts ,  to B  and C  illustrate that while two participants can have relatively similar conversations and undergo a similar analysis, the form of online social interaction can vary. With B  and C , exemplary reasons why they had differing prompts could be that C  already follows B  on Twitter\u00ae, or perhaps B  had instructed his system not to initiate Facebook\u00ae interactions. In determining which form of online social interaction to initiate, the system  can check which online social interactions already exist, which are preferred or disliked by the participant, and which best fit the relationship.","As illustrated in the prompt  to D , the system  can also use filtering to only receive specific social interactions related to a desired topic or theme. This helps participants who, for example, desire to interact with someone only in a specific form or with regard to a specific topic. For instance, should a system  initiate the following of a Twitter\u00ae or similar microblog account of a conference call participant Z, a professional colleague probably does not want to know every time Z updates that account by going to the grocery store. The professional colleague may only want to know about a specific topic or theme, and the system  can filter out remaining topics. The system can perform this filtering using tags, metadata, word searches, or using other filtering methods.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","602","604","606"]},"The system  then performs an analysis of the audio to determine a relationship between a first participant and a second participant (). The relationship between the first participant and the second participant can indicate that a user is a speaker or a questioner. The system can perform the analysis using timestamps, volume, speaking duration, caller phone number, caller ID text, and\/or other caller identity information. The system  can optionally retrieve data associated with sidebar communications and use that data when performing the analysis. The system can verify that the relationship between the first participant and the second participant meets a threshold value prior to the initiating the online social interaction in step ().","The system  initiates an online social interaction to the first participant based at least in part on the relationship (). The system can structure the online social interaction to filter content by topic and\/or time. The online social interaction can be interactions on a social network, a blog, and a microblog. Some example online social interactions include following someone on Twitter, adding someone as a friend on Facebook, adding someone as a contact on LinkedIn, or a connection in Echoes. The system can initiate the online social interaction via a prompt to one or both users. Upon receiving user acceptance of the prompt, the system can continue to monitor the users' communications in the conference, via the online social interactions, or via other channels for indications to modify the relationship.","Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and\/or non-transitory computer-readable storage media for carrying or having computer-executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non-transitory computer-readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer, including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example, and not limitation, such non-transitory computer-readable media can include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer-executable instructions, data structures, or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection (either hardwired, wireless, or combination thereof) to a computer, the computer properly views the connection as a computer-readable medium. Thus, any such connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer-readable media.","Computer-executable instructions include, for example, instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer-executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand-alone or network environments. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, objects, and the functions inherent in the design of special-purpose processors, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations, including personal computers, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked (either by hardwired links, wireless links, or by a combination thereof) through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. For example, the principles herein apply to forms of online social interaction not specifically enumerated within the disclosure, and can apply to other types of communications beyond conference calls, such as video conferencing, email, text messages, multi-modal communications, and so forth. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein, and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In order to describe the manner in which the above-recited and other advantages and features of the disclosure can be obtained, a more particular description of the principles briefly described above will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only exemplary embodiments of the disclosure and are not therefore to be considered to be limiting of its scope, the principles herein are described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
