---
title: Rule-based automated return authorization
abstract: A return request processing engine automatically approves or denies requests for authorization to return a purchased item to the seller of the item. The return request processing engine utilizes return request rules to determine whether a particular return request can be approved or denied without input from the seller. When a request is received from a buyer to return an item, the return request processing engine utilizes the return request rules to determine if the request to return the item can be automatically approved or denied without input from the seller. If the return request processing engine cannot automatically approve or deny a return request, the return request processing engine causes a message to be transmitted to the seller of the item that provides a user interface through which the seller can indicate whether the return request is approved or denied by way of a single user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666907&OS=08666907&RS=08666907
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08666907
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111024
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Customer-to-customer (\u201cC2C\u201d) marketplaces facilitate the sale of physical and digital goods from marketplace customers to other customers. For instance, a World Wide Web (\u201cWeb\u201d) site may be configured to provide an online C2C marketplace in which customers can list items for sale. Other customers of these types of C2C marketplaces can browse items for sale and purchase these items through the marketplace. Item sellers may ship purchased items directly to buyers or may use warehouse services provided by the merchant operating the C2C marketplace to fulfill orders.","Current C2C marketplaces do not provide functionality for facilitating the return of purchased items from a buyer to a seller. As a result, buyers must typically communicate directly with marketplace sellers to facilitate the return of purchased items. For instance, if a buyer desires to return a purchased item for any reason, the buyer may be required to send an e-mail message directly to the marketplace seller requesting authorization to return the item. Sellers must manually respond to these messages with a message indicating that authorization to return a purchased item has been granted or has been denied.","High-volume C2C marketplace sellers may receive many hundreds of messages each day from buyers requesting authorization to return purchased items. Individually processing such a high volume of return authorization messages from buyers may be difficult and time-consuming for C2C marketplace sellers. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the disclosure made herein is presented.","The following detailed description is directed to concepts and technologies for rule-based automated return authorization. Utilizing the technologies described herein, a return request processing engine can utilize seller-specified return request rules to automatically approve or deny return requests without input from a marketplace seller. In this way, marketplace sellers can be freed from the burden of manually responding to every request for authorization to return an item. Additionally, in cases where the return request processing engine cannot automatically approve or deny a return request, a message can be sent to the seller for manual approval or denial of the return request that includes a user interface through which the seller can specify whether the return request is approved or denied with only a single user input operation, such as a single mouse click. In this way, sellers can quickly manually approve or deny requests to return items.","According to embodiments, a return request processing engine provides functionality for automatically approving or denying requests for authorization to return a purchased item to the seller of the item (\u201creturn requests\u201d). The return request processing engine utilizes return request rules to determine whether a particular return request can be automatically approved or denied without input from the seller. The return request rules may be specified by the seller and may be based upon one or more factors such as, but not limited to, a shipping date of the item to be returned, the shipping weight of the item to be returned, the sale price of the item to be returned, the condition of the item to be returned, the type of the item to be returned, a marketplace policy, or other factors. The seller might also be permitted to specify a list of items for which return requests are to be automatically approved or denied. An appropriate user interface may be provided to the seller through which the return request rules can be defined.","When a request is received from a buyer to return an item, the return request processing engine is executed. The return request processing engine utilizes the return request rules to determine if the request to return the item can be automatically approved or denied without input from the seller. If the return request can be automatically approved, the return request processing engine authorizes the return of the item and causes a notification to be provided to the buyer indicating that the request has been approved. If the return request can be automatically denied, the return request processing engine denies authorization to return the item and causes a notification to be provided to the buyer indicating that the request has been denied.","If the return request processing engine cannot automatically approve or deny a return request, the return request processing engine causes a message to be transmitted to the seller of the item. The message is configured to provide a user interface through which the seller can indicate whether the return request is approved or denied by way of a single user input. For instance, when the message is displayed on a wireless mobile telephone having touch input capabilities, the seller can approve or deny the return request by providing only a single touch input on a display screen. The user interface might also include a mechanism through which the seller can add the item to the list of items for which return requests are to be automatically approved or denied.","While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices, those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described below, including multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers, handheld computers, personal digital assistants, cellular telephone devices, electronic-book readers, special-purposed hardware devices, network appliances, and the like. The embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments, where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","In the following detailed description, references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and that show, by way of illustration, specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","140","150","102"]},"Item sellers may ship purchased items directly to buyers or may use warehouse and fulfillment services provided by the merchant operating the C2C marketplace to fulfill orders. Digital items might also be offered for sale through the C2C marketplace and fulfilled physically (such as in the case of CDs or DVDs) or electronically (such as in the case of digital audio or video files). It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed herein are described primarily in the context of a C2C marketplace, the concepts presented herein may be utilized with other types of marketplaces, such as business-to-consumer (\u201cB2C\u201d) marketplaces and other types of marketplaces.","In order to provide the C2C marketplace and other functionality described herein, the online marketplace system  may utilize a number of application servers  that provide various application services to sellers and customers engaged in commerce through the online marketplace. The application servers  may be standard server computers, database servers, Web servers, network appliances, desktop computers, other computing devices, and any combination thereof. The application servers  may execute a number of modules in order to provide the online marketplace services. The modules may execute on a single application server  or in parallel across multiple application servers in the online marketplace system . In addition, each module may consist of a number of subcomponents executing on different application servers  or other computing devices in the online marketplace system . The modules may be implemented as software, hardware, or any combination of the two.","According to embodiments, the online marketplace system  is also configured to provide functionality for assisting a buyer  with the return of an item purchased from a seller  on the C2C marketplace. For instance, a buyer  may utilize a Web browser application B executing on a buyer device  to connect to the online marketplace system  by way of the network . The buyer device  may be any type of computing device capable of connecting to the online marketplace system , such as, but not limited to, a desktop or laptop computer, a wireless mobile telephone, or a tablet computing device. The network  may be a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), a wide-area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), the Internet, or any other networking topology known in the art that connects a buyer device  and a seller device  to the application servers  in the online marketplace system .","Once connected to the online marketplace system , the buyer  may submit a return request . As described above, a return request  is a request for authorization to return a previously purchased item to a seller  and may include data identifying the item to be returned, identifying the buyer , indicating reasons for the requested return, and other information. Sellers typically require approval of a return request before a buyer may return an item. Consequently, if the seller  approves the return request , then the buyer  is authorized to return the item to the seller . If the seller  denies the return request , then the buyer  is not authorized to return the item to the seller .","As described above, current C2C marketplaces provide minimal functionality for facilitating the return of purchased items from a buyer  to a seller . As a result, buyers must typically communicate directly with marketplace sellers to facilitate the return of purchased items. For instance, if a buyer  desires to return a purchased item, the buyer  may need to send an e-mail message directly to the marketplace seller  requesting authorization to return the item. The seller  must manually respond to these types of messages with a message indicating that authorization to return a purchased item has been granted or has been denied. Manually processing return authorization messages in this manner can be difficult and time consuming, especially for high-volume C2C marketplace sellers that receive many hundreds of messages each day from buyers requesting authorization to return purchased items.","In an attempt to reduce the number of return requests that must be manually approved or denied by a seller , the online marketplace system  is configured in one embodiment to provide functionality for rule-based automated return request authorization. In order to provide this functionality, the application servers  are configured to execute a return request processing engine . As will be described in greater detail below, the return request processing engine  utilizes return request rules  specified by the seller  to determine whether a return request  can be automatically approved or denied without manual input from the seller .","The seller  may utilize a Web browser application A executing on the seller device  to access a user interface provided by the online marketplace system  for specifying the return request rules . The online marketplace system  might also provide a user interface for allowing the seller  to specify a list  of item identifiers for which future return requests are to be automatically approved or denied. Item identifiers may include, but are not limited to, numeric identifiers assigned to items by the merchant that operates the online marketplace system , stock keeping unit (\u201cSKU\u201d) numbers, and any other data that can be utilized to uniquely identify items offered for sale. Details regarding one illustrative user interface for defining the return request rules  and the list  will be provided below with regard to .","When a buyer  submits a return request  to the online marketplace system , the return request processing engine  receives the return request . The return request processing engine  then utilizes the return request rules  to determine whether the return request  can be approved or denied automatically without manual input from the seller . The return request processing engine  might also utilize the list  to determine if the return request  can be granted.","As will be described in greater detail below, the return request rules  might be based upon one or more factors. For example, and without limitation, the return request rules  might be based upon a shipping date of the item to be returned, the shipping weight, dimensions, or volume of the item to be returned, the sale price of the item to be returned, the condition of the item to be returned, the type or category of the item to be returned, a marketplace policy specified by the merchant that operates the online marketplace system , the reason for the return, the location of the buyer , or other factors. The seller  might also specify that return requests  for all or none of the items sold by the seller  are authorized for automatic approval. The seller  might also specify that return requests  received for all of the items sold by the seller should be automatically denied.","If the return request processing engine  determines that the return request  can be automatically approved, the return request processing engine  authorizes the return of the item and causes a return approval message  to be provided to the buyer  indicating that the return request  has been approved. If the return request processing engine  determines that the return request  can be automatically denied, the return request processing engine  denies authorization to return the item and causes a return denial message  to be provided to the buyer  indicating that the return request  has been denied. The return approval message  and return denial message  may be e-mail messages that the buyer  can retrieve using an e-mail client application B, may be SMS messages, or may be other types of messages.","If the return request processing engine  cannot automatically approve or deny a return request , the return request processing engine  might cause a message  to be transmitted to the seller  of the item. For instance, the return request processing engine  may transmit an e-mail message to the seller  that can be received by an e-mail application A executing on the seller device . The return request processing engine  might also transmit an SMS message or another type of message to the seller .","The message  is configured to provide a user interface through which the seller  can indicate whether the return request  is approved or denied by way of a single user input. For instance, when the message  is displayed on a seller device  having touch input capabilities, such as a wireless mobile telephone, the seller  can approve or deny the return request  by providing only a single touch input on a display screen. As another example, if the seller device  is a desktop or laptop computer, the seller  can approve or deny the return request  by providing only a single click on a mouse or track pad. The user interface provided by the message  might also include user interface controls through which the seller  can add the item that is the subject of the message  to the list  of items for which return requests  are to be automatically approved or denied. Additional details regarding this user interface are provided below with regard to .","Turning now to , additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for rule-based automated return authorization. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented (1) as a sequence of computer-implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and\/or (2) as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly, the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations, structural devices, acts, or modules. These operations, structural devices, acts, and modules may be implemented in software, in firmware, in special purpose digital logic, and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in parallel, or in a different order than those described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","120","102","200","104","200","104","102"]},"The routine  begins at operation , where the return request processing engine  provides a user interface for defining the return request rules . One illustrative user interface for defining the return request rules  will be described below with regard to . From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation .","At operation , the return request processing engine  receives the return request rules  from the seller  through the user interface provided at operation . The routine  then proceeds operation , where the return request processing engine  provides a user interface for specifying a list  of items that are eligible for automatic return approval. The list  might also specify items for which return requests  should be automatically denied. The return request processing engine  receives the list  at operation . Illustrative user interfaces for specifying the list  and for adding items to the list  will be provided below with regard to , respectively.","From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation to  where the return request processing engine  stores the return request rules  and the list . As will be described in greater detail below, the return request processing engine  utilizes the return request rules  and the list  to determine whether return requests  can be automatically approved or denied without manual input from the seller  of the item for which a return request  has been received. From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation , where it ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3E","b":["300","300","120","300","300","140","120","122","124"]},"As discussed above, the seller  can utilize the Web browser application A to access the online marketplace system  and utilize the user interfaces A-E. It should be appreciated that other mechanisms might also be utilized to specify the return request rules  and the list . For instance, the seller  might be permitted to upload an extensible markup language (\u201cXML\u201d) file or other type of structured data file that includes data defining the return request rules . The online marketplace system  might also provide other types of mechanisms through which the seller  can submit the return request rules  and the list .","The illustrative user interface A shown in  includes the user interface controls A-D. The seller  can utilize an appropriate user input device, such as a mouse, touch screen, or track pad, to select the user interface controls A-D. The user interface control A allows the seller  to indicate that return requests should not be automatically authorized for any items. In this case, the seller  may be required to manually authorize return requests  for all items sold by the seller . The one operation user interface described below with regard to  might be utilized to manually approve or deny return requests .","The user interface control B may be selected in order to indicate that return requests  for all of the items sold by the seller  on the marketplace should be automatically approved. A similar user interface control (not shown in ) might also be provided to allow a seller  to indicate that return requests  for all of items sold by the seller  should be automatically denied. In this regard, it should be appreciated that while the user interfaces A-E are primarily focused upon defining return request rules  for the automatic approval of a return request , similar user interface controls might be provided to define return request rules  specifying how return requests  should be automatically denied.","If the user interface control B is selected, the user interface B shown in  may be displayed. In the user interface B, additional user interface controls A, B, and  are displayed that allow the seller  to define a return window within which a return request  must be received in order to be automatically approved. For instance, the user interface control A may be selected in order to specify that a return request  must be received within 30 days of the shipping date of the item in order to be automatically approved. The user interface controls B and  might be utilized in a similar manner to specify another range of dates. In this way, the seller  can specify return request rules  indicating that return requests for all items sold by the seller  should be automatically approved so long as the return request  is received within a defined period of time.","The user interface control C may be selected in order to specify return request rules  indicating that return requests  should be automatically approved for items that comply with a marketplace policy specified by the merchant that operates the online marketplace system . For instance, the merchant that operates the online marketplace system  may specify certain categories of items that can be returned and certain categories of items that cannot be returned (e.g. digital items). If the user interface control C is selected, the return request processing engine  will automatically approve return requests  according to the marketplace policy. The seller  might also utilize the user interface controls A, B, and  shown in the user interface C in  to also specify a range of dates within which a return request  must be received in order to qualify for automatic approval.","The seller  might also select the user interface control D to specify custom return request rules . If the seller  selects the user interface control D, the user interface D shown in  is displayed. The user interface D allows the seller  to specify return request rules  that are based upon various factors, such as the shipping date, sale price, and weight of the item to be returned. The user interface D also provides functionality for allowing the seller  to select and upload a list  of items for which return requests  should be automatically approved.","The user interface controls A-B and  may be utilized to define a window of time in which a return request  must be received in order to be automatically approved. The user interface controls , A, and B may be utilized to define a range of sale prices for items that qualify for automatic return request approval. In this way, for instance, the seller  might specify that return requests  for low priced items are to be automatically approved. The user interface controls , A, and B may be utilized to define a range of shipping weights for items that qualify for automatic return request approval. In this way, the seller can indicate that return requests for heavy items should not be automatically approved for example. Other user interface controls might also be provided to define return request rules  based upon other factors.","As mentioned above, the user interface D might also be utilized to upload a list  of items for which return requests  are to be automatically authorized. In the embodiment shown in , the user interface control  may be utilized to select a comma-separated values (\u201cCSV\u201d) file that includes identifiers for the items for which return requests  are to be automatically authorized. Once the CSV file has been selected, the seller  may select the user interface control  in order to upload the selected file to the online marketplace system . A user interface control  might also be provided which, when selected, will clear the list  stored at the online marketplace system. In this manner, the seller  can provide the list . Other user interfaces might also be provided through which the seller  can add or remove individual items from the list , such as the one described below with regard to .","Once the seller  has completed defining the return request rules  using the user interfaces A-D, the seller  may select the user interface control  to update the rules  stored at the online marketplace system . The seller  might also select the user interface control  to cancel the selections made using the user interfaces A-D. As mentioned above, the user interfaces A-D discussed above are merely illustrative and other types of user interfaces may be utilized to specify rules for use in automatically approving and denying return requests .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3E","FIG. 3D"],"b":["300","122","124","300","140","140","114","124","102","150"]},"The seller  can select the user interface control  to authorize the return of the two items. The seller  can also utilize the user interface controls A and B to add the two items to the list . By adding these items to the list , future return requests  for these items will be automatically approved by the return request processing engine . The seller  might also select the user interface control  in order to access a user interface for editing the return request rules , such as the user interfaces A-D shown in , respectively, and described above. The user interface control  might also be selected to cancel the processing of the return request  illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","124","120","400","402","118","124","124","400","404","118","120","124","140","118","122","124","118","400","406"]},"If the return request processing engine  determines that the return request  can be automatically approved, the routine  proceeds from operation  to operation . At operation , the return request processing engine  authorizes the return of the item and causes the return approval message  to be provided to the buyer  indicating that the return request  has been approved. If the return request processing engine  determines that the return request  cannot be automatically approved, the routine  proceeds from operation  to operation .","If the return request processing engine  determines that the return request  must be automatically denied, the routine  proceeds from operation  to operation . At operation , the return request processing engine  denies authorization to return the item and causes the return denial message  to be provided to the buyer  indicating that the request has been denied.","If the return request processing engine cannot automatically approve or deny a return request, the routine  proceeds from operation  to operation , where the return request processing engine  causes a message to be transmitted to the seller of the item requesting manual approval or denial of the return request . One illustrative user interface provided by such a message is described below with regard to  and  that allows the seller  to approve or deny a return request  using only a single user input operation. From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation , where it ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","124","500","502","118","130","106","140","124","130"]},"As also discussed above, the message  is configured so that when the message  is displayed by a seller device , a user interface will be generated that allows the seller  to indicate whether the return request  should be approved or denied using only a single user input operation. In order to generate the user interface, the message  may be defined using the hypertext markup language (\u201cHTML\u201d), JAVASCRIPT, and\/or another suitable language.  shows one illustrative user interface  for one operation approval or denial of a return request  according to one embodiment disclosed herein.","As shown in , a user interface  can be displayed on a seller device , such as the wireless mobile telephone , that includes user interface controls A and B for denying or approving a return request , respectively. The user interface controls A and B are configured such that a single user interface operation, such as a touch by the hand  of the seller , will cause a message to be transmitted to the return request processing engine  indicating that the return request  has been approved or denied by the seller . In this manner, a seller  can quickly and efficiently approve or deny return requests  without accessing a Web site provided by the online marketplace system .","According to one embodiment, the online marketplace system  exposes a Web service application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d) for approving or denying return requests . In this embodiment, the user interface controls A and B are associated with uniform resource locators (\u201cURLs\u201d) that call the appropriate API for approving or denying a return request . The APIs may also include functionality for receiving an encrypted token from the seller device  that includes information identifying the seller , identifying the return request , indicating whether the request has been approved or denied, and an expiration date for the token. It should be appreciated that this mechanism is merely illustrative and that other API and message-based mechanisms might be utilized in order to provide the one operation functionality described herein for approving or denying return requests .","Although not shown in , the user interface  might also include user interface controls, such as the user interface controls A and B shown in , through which the seller  can add items to the list  of items for which return requests  should be automatically approved. The user interface  might also include a user interface control C which, when selected, will permit the seller  to send a message to the buyer . This functionality might be utilized, for instance, to send a message to the buyer  indicating why a return request  was denied.","It should be appreciated that the user interface  shown in  is merely illustrative and that the functionality described above for one operation approval or denial of a return request  might be provided by other types of user interfaces. For instance, if the seller device  is a laptop or desktop computer, a single mouse click might cause the return request  to be approved or denied.","After the message  has been transmitted to the seller  at operation , the routine  proceeds to operation , where the return request processing engine  receives a response to the message . If the response from the seller  indicates that the return request  has been approved, the routine  proceeds from operation  to operation . At operation , the return request processing engine  approves the return request  and transmits the return approval message  to the buyer . If the response from the seller  indicates that the request  has been denied, the routine  proceeds to operation , where the return request processing engine  denies the return request  and transmits the return approval denial message  to the buyer . From operations  and , the routine  proceeds to operation , where it ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","120","118","120","140","124","140","124","118","120","124","118","140","118","120"]},"The routine  begins at operation , where the return request processing engine  monitors the manual approvals and denials of return requests  by the seller . The return request processing engine  might also examine past historical return request approval or denials made manually by the seller . From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation .","At operation , the return request processing engine  analyzes the manual approvals and denials of return requests  by the seller  to generate new return request rules . The return request processing engine  might also modify current return request rules  to reflect the behavior of the seller  when manually approving or denying return requests . From operation , the routine  proceeds to operation .","At operation , the return request processing engine  suggests the new rules  and the modifications to existing rules  to the seller . An appropriate user interface may be provided by the online marketplace system  for suggesting the new and modified rules and for allowing the seller  to approve use of the new or modified rules by the return request processing engine . The routine  then proceeds from operation  to operation , where it ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","800","104","106","108"]},"The computer  includes a baseboard, or \u201cmotherboard,\u201d which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative embodiment, one or more central processing units (\u201cCPUs\u201d)  operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs  are standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .","The CPUs  execute instructions by transitioning from one discrete, physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states, such as flip-flops, and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements, such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits, including registers, adders-subtractors, arithmetic logic units, floating-point units, and the like.","The chipset  provides an interface between the CPUs  and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard. The chipset  may provide an interface to a random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d) , used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset  may further provide an interface to a computer-readable storage medium such as a read-only memory (\u201cROM\u201d)  or non-volatile RAM (\u201cNVRAM\u201d) for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer  and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM  or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer  in accordance with the embodiments described herein.","According to various embodiments, the computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through the network , such as a local-area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), a wide-area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), the Internet, or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the computer  to remote computers. The chipset  includes functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface controller (\u201cNIC\u201d) , such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC  is capable of connecting the computer  to other computing devices over the network , such as the application servers , the seller device , the buyer device , a data storage system in the online marketplace system , and the like. It should be appreciated that multiple NICs  may be present in the computer , connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems.","The computer  may also be connected to a mass storage device  that provides non-volatile storage for the computer. The mass storage device  may store system programs, application programs, other program modules, and data, which are described in greater detail herein. The mass storage device  may be connected to the computer  through a storage controller  connected to the chipset . The mass storage device  may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller  may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI (\u201cSAS\u201d) interface, a serial advanced technology attachment (\u201cSATA\u201d) interface, a fiber channel (\u201cFC\u201d) interface, or other standard interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage devices.","The computer  may store data on the mass storage device  by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of the physical state may depend on various factors, in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include, but are not limited to, the technology used to implement the physical storage units, whether the mass storage device  is characterized as primary or secondary storage, and the like. For example, the computer  may store information to the mass storage device  by issuing instructions through the storage controller  to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit, the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit, or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor, transistor, or other discrete component in a solid-state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description, with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer  may further read information from the mass storage device  by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.","In addition to the mass storage device  described above, the computer  may have access to other computer-readable storage medium to store and retrieve information, such as program modules, data structures, or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer-readable media can be any available media that may be accessed by the computer , including computer-readable storage media and communications media. Communications media includes transitory signals. Computer-readable storage media includes volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable storage media implemented in any method or technology, but does not include transitory signals. For example, computer-readable storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, erasable programmable ROM (\u201cEPROM\u201d), electrically-erasable programmable ROM (\u201cEEPROM\u201d), flash memory or other solid-state memory technology, compact disc ROM (\u201cCD-ROM\u201d), digital versatile disk (\u201cDVD\u201d), high definition DVD (\u201cHD-DVD\u201d), BLU-RAY, or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non-transitory fashion.","The mass storage device  may store an operating system  utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one embodiment, the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment, the operating system comprises the WINDOWS\u00ae SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond, Wash. According to further embodiments, the operating system may comprise the UNIX or SOLARIS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized.","The mass storage device  may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer , such as the return request processing engine  and the return request rules , which were described in detail above. In one embodiment, the mass storage device  or other computer-readable storage media may be encoded with computer-executable instructions that, when loaded into the computer , may transform the computer from a general-purpose computing system into a special-purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. These computer-executable instructions transform the computer  by specifying how the CPUs  transition between states, as described above. According to one embodiment, the computer  may have access to computer-readable storage media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the computer, perform the routines , , , and  described above.","The computer  may also include an input\/output controller  for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices, such as a keyboard, a mouse, a touchpad, a touch screen, an electronic stylus, or other type of input device. Similarly, the input\/output controller  may provide output to a display, such as a computer monitor, a flat-panel display, a digital projector, a printer, a plotter, or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer  may not include all of the components shown in , may include other components that are not explicitly shown in , or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .","Based on the foregoing, it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies have been disclosed herein for rules-based automated return authorization. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features, methodological acts, and computer readable media, it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features, acts, or media described herein. Rather, the specific features, acts, and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore, the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described, and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention, which is set forth in the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
