---
title: Systems and methods for controlling strobe illumination
abstract: The repeatability of strobe illumination for image exposure is improved over a wide dynamic range in a machine vision system wherein a relationship between a camera integration period and a pulse duration of a strobe light generator control the effective exposure of a camera image during a timing overlap between a beginning of the camera integration period and an end of the pulse duration. To avoid noise in the illumination, the illumination pulse duration may start, the camera integration period may begin after a delay relative to that start and not later than the end of the pulse duration, the pulse duration may end, and the camera integration period may end not earlier than the end of the pulse duration. The timing overlap may also be synchronized with a periodic ripple component in the strobe illumination, to provide improved repeatability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09234852&OS=09234852&RS=09234852
owner: MITUTOYO CORPORATION
number: 09234852
owner_city: Kanegawa
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110823
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE(S) TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/191,969, filed Jul. 29, 2005, priority from the filing date of which is hereby claimed under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120.","This invention relates to systems and methods that select light source channels and control light intensity and direction for precision machine vision inspection using a transient light source.","Methods for operating a machine vision inspection system with a camera and a stage that are movable relative to one another to focus on and inspect selected features of a workpiece on the stage are generally known. Precision machine vision inspection systems may be used to obtain precise dimensional measurements of inspected objects and to inspect various other object characteristics.","Such systems may include a computer, a camera and\/or optical system and a precision stage that may be movable in multiple directions to allow the camera to scan the features of a workpiece that is being inspected. One exemplary prior art system, of a type that may be characterized as a general-purpose \u201coff-line\u201d precision vision system, is the commercially available Quick Vision\u2122 series of vision inspection machines and QVPak\u00ae software available from Mitutoyo America Corporation (MAC), located in Aurora, Ill.","Such general-purpose \u201coff-line\u201d precision vision systems often include a programmable illumination system and a lens turret with lenses of various magnifications, for example, to increase versatility of the image systems and provide the ability to rapidly change configuration and imaging parameters for the vision systems to perform a wide variety of inspection tasks. There is a common need to inspect various types of objects or inspection workpieces, or various aspects of a single workpiece, using various combinations of magnifications and the programmable illumination settings.","General purpose precision machine vision inspection systems, such as the Quick Vision\u2122 system, are also generally programmable and operable to provide automated video inspection. Such systems may include features and tools that simplify the programming and operation of such systems, such that operation and programming may be performed reliably by \u201cnon-expert\u201d operators. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,542,180, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, teaches a vision system that uses automated video inspection. The system performs operations to adjust the lighting used to illuminate a workpiece feature based on a plurality of selected regions of a feature image.","Imaging systems are widely used to inspect workpieces being transported through a manufacturing process. Equipment such as machine vision inspection systems often capture images of the workpieces using a camera, for example, and process captured images to verify various workpiece dimensions by identifying edges of relevant features in the images.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","The precise location and repeatability of where an edge is detected within an image depends on the lighting of the workpiece during image capture. Edge artifacts or edge-shifting may be created by lighting-specific shadows cast due to sub-optimal direction of the illumination of the workpiece. Over- or under-exposure may reduce the ability to accurately detect an edge, and decrease measurement repeatability. To increase productivity, workpieces may be kept in motion, even during image capture. This places an additional burden on illumination systems to minimize blurring caused by the motion. Such factors frequently limit the accuracy with which the edge of a feature may be located within an image and\/or the velocity that may be tolerated during image capture. Thus, improvements in workpiece illumination control technology would be very desirable.","Various exemplary embodiments provide systems and methods for strobe illumination for imaging a workpiece. For example, the systems and methods may be used for controlling image exposure strobe illumination in a machine vision system which is configured for illuminating a workpiece such that it may be imaged by a camera of the machine vision system while moving at high speed. Exemplary systems may include an illumination source (e.g. a strobe light generator), an image acquisition device (e.g. the machine vision system camera) and a control system (e.g. a control system portion of the machine vision system). The illumination source may emit light of one or more visible or invisible wavelengths of radiation that are suitable for imaging the workpiece, as a transient flash or pulse to the workpiece. The transient flash or pulse, also referred to as an illumination pulse, may occur in response to a lamp trigger, also referred to as a pulse trigger. In some embodiments, the illumination source may emit the light at an illumination intensity that rises from a begin threshold to a peak and afterwards diminishes to an end threshold during a flash duration. The image acquisition device may capture the light associated with the workpiece for an exposure duration, also referred to as camera integration period, started in response to an exposure trigger, also referred to as a camera integration trigger. The control system may control the illumination source and the image acquisition device to provide a desired overlap between the exposure duration or camera integration period and the flash duration. In one embodiment, the beginning of the exposure duration may precede the lamp trigger by a lamp lag period. The lamp trigger may be set to synchronize or adjust a timing relationship between an end of the exposure duration and the illumination intensity profile of the flash, in order to control the effective exposure time of an image.","Embodiments wherein the beginning of the exposure duration or camera integration period precedes the illumination pulse and then ends during the illumination pulse, as outlined above, allow for effective image exposure times (that is, lengths of time) which are less than both the illumination pulse duration and the camera integration period, and are suitable for some strobe illumination systems and applications. Short effective image exposure times provided by this \u201coverlap\u201d control technique allow a clear \u201cfrozen\u201d image of a workpiece at increased motion speeds, which increases inspection throughput. However, for systems and\/or applications in which the shortest possible effective image exposure times are desired, an embodiment wherein the illumination pulse duration is triggered to start first, the camera integration period is triggered to start after a delay relative to the start of the illumination pulse duration, and the illumination pulse duration ends during the camera integration period, may be more advantageous for avoiding illumination noise, as outlined below, while also providing shorter effective image exposure times.","For example, increasingly powerful LED strobe sources allow and\/or require shorter image exposure times, but such strobe sources may include illumination noise components as described in greater detail below. It should be appreciated that decreasing exposure times means that any noise component (e.g. intensity variations) in the illumination pulse is averaged into a shorter image exposure time. As a result, image exposure repeatability suffers, particularly for shorter exposure times. Reduced image exposure repeatability degrades potential accuracy in certain operations (e.g. autofocus and\/or focus height determination, as one example), introducing errors that are significant, particularly in precision machine vision inspection systems. Thus, it is important to further decrease and\/or compensate illumination noise components that may otherwise be included in short image exposure times.","Powerful LED strobe sources may be driven using currents as large as 40 amperes (40 A), or more. An initial noise period of intensity noise of the illumination pulse may be associated with the transient circuit effects of starting such a high current pulse into the LED. Thus, in some embodiments, the control system portion is configured to control a timing relationship between the camera integration period and a pulse duration of the radiation emitted by the strobe light generator to control an image exposure of a camera image during a timing overlap which occurs between a beginning of the camera integration period and an end of the pulse duration. The timing relationship may be controlled such that the illumination pulse duration starts, the camera integration period begins after a delay relative to a start of the pulse duration and not later than the end of the pulse duration, the pulse duration ends, and the camera integration period ends not earlier than the end of the pulse duration. In various embodiments, the camera integration period ends after the end of the pulse duration. By providing the image exposure during the timing overlap at the end of the pulse duration, the aforementioned initial noise period of the illumination pulse duration is avoided, in order to provide more repeatable image illumination levels (e.g. for repeated images, such as an image stack that is acquired and used in various known autofocus operations). Thus, this method provides the ability to increase the dynamic range of exposures for which simple time-based control may be used, without degrading repeatability of the exposure level, even for very short pulse durations. In various embodiments, the control system portion is configured to variably control a length of the timing overlap in order to variably control the image exposure of a camera image. In some embodiments the pulse duration is set at a constant value (e.g at a value in a range of 5-150 \u03bcs, for example) and the delay is controlled in order to control the length of the timing overlap. In some embodiments the delay is set to a constant value (e.g. at a value of 25 \u03bcs, for example) and the delay pulse duration is controlled in order to control the length of the timing overlap. In some embodiments, the machine vision system comprises an image brightness control and the control system portion is configured to control the length of the timing overlap based on a setting of the image brightness control. The image brightness control may comprise a lowest setting which corresponds to a state wherein the length of the timing overlap is approximately zero.","Another potential source on non-repeatable illumination levels from powerful LED strobe sources may arise from a periodic ripple component in the illumination intensity due to a corresponding ripple in the high-current drive circuit. It is difficult to economically eliminate such ripple components (e.g. on the order of 1-2% of the drive level) in high current drive circuits that must provide fast on\/off switching times for strobe control. If different image exposures have the same effective duration (e.g. the same \u201coverlap\u201d timing outlined above), but are timed differently relative to the phase of the periodic ripple, then both the instantaneous and average illumination intensity will vary despite the otherwise consistent timing. This may affect the accuracy and\/or repeatability of images used for edge detection, autofocus, and the like, at a level that is significant for precision machine vision inspection systems. Therefore, in various embodiments, the control system portion is configured to synchronize the signals that control the image exposure timing with the periodic ripple component. In various embodiments, a signal derived from the timing of the ripple in the drive circuit is used to start counting of a high-speed clock which governs the timing overlap that determines the image exposure, such that the image exposure is synchronized with the ripple component in the illumination intensity. In some embodiments, the strobe light generator comprises an illumination source and a drive circuit that provides a drive signal that provides power to the illumination source, the drive signal exhibits a periodic ripple component, and the control system portion is configured to synchronize the timing overlap with the periodic ripple component. In some embodiments, the end of the timing overlap is synchronized with the periodic ripple component. In some such embodiments, the start of the pulse duration may be consistently synchronized relative to the periodic ripple component, the pulse duration may have a constant value, and delay may be controlled in order to control a length of the timing overlap. In other embodiments, the start of the timing overlap is synchronized with the periodic ripple component. In some such embodiments, the control system portion comprises a clock portion, and the control system portion is configured to consistently synchronize the beginning of the camera integration period relative to the periodic ripple component and end the pulse duration based on a number of clock cycles relative to the beginning of the camera integration period, in order to control a length of the timing overlap.","The aforementioned systems and methods for strobe illumination and image exposure control may be used independently or combined, and may be combined with various other features disclosed herein. For example, in various exemplary embodiments, exposure triggers may correspond to predetermined positions of the workpiece relative to a coordinate space used by the machine vision inspection system. Furthermore, in various exemplary embodiments, such systems and methods may further include a controllable spatial light modulator (SLM) configured to provide a light channel aperture positioned to controllably attenuate the radiation emitted by the strobe light generator, wherein the control system portion is configured to control the image exposure of the camera image based on controlling the timing overlap, in combination with controlling the light channel aperture to attenuate the radiation emitted by the strobe light generator, in order to further control the image exposure. In some embodiments, the SLM comprises an array of attenuating elements that are arranged and controlled to distribute the light from one or more illumination sources controlled as outlined above. The array may include elements that selectively either block, partially transmit, or transmit the light toward respective lighting channels, such as respective optical fiber bundles. Each respective lighting channel may direct the light along a path to project commanded illumination from a respective position and\/or angle of incidence relative to the workpiece. In addition, the aforementioned techniques can be used in conjunction with adjustments to a drive current level and\/or drive current modulation, or the like, in order to further extend the controllable range of illumination.","The following detailed description refers to multi-channel strobe illumination for magnified image acquisition. The strobe illumination source may refer to a Xenon flashlamp, for example. Alternatively, the strobe illumination source may refer to a high power LED source. However, the principles described herein may be equally applied to any known or later-developed transient illumination sources, beyond the examples specifically discussed herein.","Exemplary systems and methods for machine vision inspection, as provided herein, may be used in conjunction with systems and methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,030,351, issued Apr. 18, 2006, directed to automatic focusing, and\/or U.S. Pat. No. 7,127,159, issued Oct. 24, 2006, directed to strobe illumination, and\/or U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2004-0223053 A1, published Nov. 11, 2004 (now abandoned), directed to improved machine vision inspection throughput, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","Various methods and GUIs usable for determining an optimum light setting to be used with rapid auto focus systems that determine an estimated best focus position and associated light adjusting systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,542,180 and 6,239,554, each incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition, techniques for measuring surface contours are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,690,474, also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","200","120"]},"The control system portion  may be further operably arranged to exchange data and control signals with at least one of a monitor , a printer , a joystick , a keyboard , and a mouse . The vision measuring machine  may include a moveable workpiece stage  and an optical imaging system , which may include a zoom lens or a number of interchangeable lenses. The zoom lens or interchangeable lenses may generally provide various magnifications for images produced by the optical imaging system .","The joystick may be used to control the movement of the movable workpiece stage  in both X- and Y-axes horizontal directions, which may be generally parallel to the focal planes and perpendicular to the Z-axis movement direction of the optical imaging system . Frequently, Z-axis movement may be controlled by a rotary deflection component of a handle or knob of the joystick . The joystick may be provided in a form other than that shown, such as any visual representation or widget on the monitor that may be intended to function as a \u201cvirtual motion control device\u201d of the machine vision inspection system  and is controllable through any computer input device, such as the mouse or other analogous devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","10","120","200","300","120","200","300"]},"The control system portion  may include a controller  that may be in communication with, or connected to, an input\/output interface , a memory , a workpiece program generator and executor , a computer-aided design (CAD) file feature extractor  and a power supply portion . The control system portion  may also be arranged to exchange data and control signals with display devices  and input devices , for example, through the input\/output interface .","The input\/output interface  may comprise an imaging control interface , a motion control interface , a lighting control interface , and a lens control interface . The motion control interface  may include a position portion and a speed and acceleration portion . The lighting control interface  may include lighting channel exposure and control portion .","The various elements of the control system portion  may generally encompass hard-wired circuits, software circuits, subroutines, objects, operations, application programming interfaces, managers, applications, or any other known or later-developed hardware or software structure. The display devices  may include, for example, the monitor and the printer (). The input devices  may include, for example, the joystick , the keyboard and the mouse (). In general, the various elements of the control system portion , may be operably connected to each other and to external devices by any suitable known or later-developed power and\/or signal busses, wireless communication signals, and\/or application programming interfaces, or the like. Such interconnections are generally indicated by various interconnection lines , throughout the control system portion , in an arrangement of interconnections that is exemplary only, and not limiting.","The light generation system  may include one or more light generator  and a spatial light modulator (SLM)  to control the distribution of light from the light generator , to a plurality of light channels, as described further below. The light generator  and the SLM  may be arranged to exchange data and control signals with the light channel exposure and control portion , for example, by respective power and signal lines , . At least one of the lamps (not shown) of the light generator  may be used in a strobe illumination mode of operation to provide a combination of a very fast light generator response time (in the \u03bcs or ns range) and suitable optical power levels. In various exemplary embodiments, the light generator  may include a high intensity Xenon (Xe) flashlamp. However, in general, any light generator that emits a wavelength within a sensing range of the camera  may be used. Various features of the light generation system  are described further below.","The vision measuring machine  may include an optical assembly , light sources, including stage light source , coaxial light source , and programmable ring light (PRL) source . The workpiece stage  may include a central transparent portion  through which light from the stage light source  passes. The stage  may be controllably movable along X- and Y-axes that lie in a plane substantially parallel to the surface of the stage  where a workpiece or target  may be positioned.","The stage light source  may receive light through a light cable  from a respective channel of the SLM  to transmit light  through the transparent portion . The components that provide the light  may be regarded as a first light channel of the machine vision inspection system \u2032. The coaxial light source  may receive light through a light cable  from a respective channel of the SLM  to transmit light  to a beamsplitter that provides a coaxial mirror  that directs the transmitted light  through the objective lens . The components that provide the light  may be regarded as a second light channel of the machine vision inspection system \u2032. The programmable ring light (PRL) source  may form an annular ring above and around the workpiece  to transmit light  to the workpiece  at controllable angles. An exemplary configuration for the PRL source  may include four ring-light sources through , arranged in respective quadrants around the ring-light. The four sources through may receive light through respective light cables through from respective channels of the SLM . The various light cables may comprise optical fiber bundles, or the like. The PRL source  may be formed as a combination of individually controllable sources. The components that provide respective portions of the light  may be regarded as four additional light channels of the machine vision inspection system \u2032.","The workpiece  may be disposed on the stage  at a known or learned position. By detecting macroscopic positions of the stage  and\/or the workpiece , the control system portion  may accurately determine where to capture workpiece images to perform inspection of various workpiece features.","The memory  may comprise an image file memory portion , a workpiece program memory portion , and a video tool portion . The video tool portion  may comprise a region of interest generator , and various respective video tools through , which may include respective GUI interfaces, image processing operations, and the like, which assist a user in performing and\/or programming various inspection operations. The region of interest generator provides operations that may assist the user in defining desired regions of interest to be analyzed or operated upon be the various video tools -, as described in the '180 patent, for example.","The memory  may store data and\/or \u201ctools\u201d usable to operate the machine vision inspection system  to capture or acquire an image of the workpiece  with desired image characteristics. The memory  may further store data and\/or video tools usable to operate the machine vision inspection system  to perform various inspection and measurement operations on the acquired images, either manually or automatically, and to output the results, for example, through the input\/output interface  through data and\/or control busses and\/or the controller . The memory  may also contain data defining a GUI operable through the input\/output interface  by way of data and\/or control busses and\/or the controller .","The optical assembly  may include, for example, a camera or image acquisition device , an interchangeable objective lens , a turret lens assembly , and the coaxial light source . The objective lens  and the camera  may be aligned along a camera axis. The optical assembly  may be controllably movable along the Z-axis that is generally orthogonal to the X- and Y-axes, for example, by using a controllable motor . Each of the X-, Y- and Z-axes of the machine vision inspection system  may be instrumented with respective X-, Y- and Z-axis position encoders (not shown) that provide spatial position information to the control system portion , for example, over suitable signal and\/or control lines (not shown). The camera  may include a charge-couple diode (CCD) array, or a CMOS array, or any other suitable detector array, to provide an image based on the light received from the workpiece .","The turret lens assembly  may include two or more respective lenses ,  that may be rotated around a rotation axis  to be respectively positioned in the optical path between the camera  and the objective lens  to provide a respective image magnification in combination with the objection lens . The control system portion  may rotate the turret lens assembly  to provide a desired image magnification. The input\/output interface  may exchange data and control signals with the camera , the turret lens assembly  and the motor , for example, by power and signal lines or busses , , . Respective signal and\/or control lines (not shown) of the respective X-, Y- and Z-axes position encoders (not shown) may also be in communication with the input\/output interface . In addition to carrying image data, the signal line  may carry various signals from the controller  that set an image acquisition pixel range for the camera , initiate an image acquisition camera operation sequence, and\/or similar operations.","The optical assembly  of the machine vision inspection system  may include, in addition to the previously discussed components, other lenses, and\/or other optical elements, such as apertures, beam-splitters and other analogous devices, such as may be needed for providing desirable machine vision inspection system features.","The workpiece  to be imaged and inspected using the machine vision inspection system  may be placed on the stage . One or more of the light sources , ,  may emit the respective light , , , that may illuminate the workpiece . Light may be reflected from or transmitted through the workpiece  as workpiece light , which may pass through the interchangeable objective lens  and one of the lenses ,  of the turret lens assembly  to be received by the camera . The image of the workpiece , captured by the camera , may be output, for example, through the signal line  to the control system portion .","A distance between the stage  and the optical assembly  may be adjusted to change the focus of the image of the workpiece  captured by the camera . For example, the optical assembly  may be movable in the vertical (Z-axis) direction perpendicular to the stage , for example, using the controllable motor  that may drive an actuator, a connecting cable, or other analogous devices, to move the optical assembly  along the Z-axis. The term Z-axis, as used herein, refers to the axis for focusing the image obtained by the optical assembly . The controllable motor , when used, may be in communication with the control system portion , for example, through the signal line .","The control system portion  may be usable to determine image acquisition settings or parameters and\/or acquire an image of the workpiece  with desired image characteristics in a region of interest that includes a workpiece feature to be inspected by workpiece program instructions. Such workpiece imaging instructions may be encoded by the workpiece part programming generator and executor  and transmitted to other components through data and\/or control busses and\/or application programming interfaces . The display devices  and input devices  may be used to view, create and\/or modify part programs, to view the images captured by the camera , and\/or to view and\/or modify various GUI features for monitoring and\/or controlling the machine vision inspection system \u2032. The physical movements may be controlled by the motion control interface .","To achieve control of the physical movements of the camera , the motion control interface  may receive position information from the X-, Y- and Z-axis position encoders and may transmit position altering control signals via data and\/or control busses and\/or application programming interfaces . In general, such instructions may cause the machine vision inspection system \u2032 to manipulate the stage  and\/or the camera  such that a particular portion of the workpiece  may be within the field of view of the camera  and may provide a desired magnification, a desired focus state and an appropriate illumination. This process may be repeated for each of multiple images in a set of images that are to be captured for inspecting the workpiece .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["133","135","300","135","135","135","135","135","350","351","135","310","311"],"i":["a","b ","c","b ","c "]},"The light generator  may emit light  to illuminate an illumination area  on the SLM . The SLM  may generally transmit, partially transmit, or block light. The SLM  may include a plurality of respective controllable apertures within the illumination area . The respective apertures may generally provide illumination control for the respective light channels of the machine vision inspection system by transmitting, partially transmitting, or blocking the light  to each of the respective light channels. In the example shown in , the apertures include a stage light channel aperture , a coaxial light channel aperture , and PRL light channel apertures , , , . The respective apertures , , -may individually control the amount of light  transmitted to the respective light cables , , -() to be output through the respective light sources , , -","The SLM  may include an arrangement of shutters that provide the respective apertures. The shutters may be of any now-known or later-developed type that can provide controllable light transmitting and light blocking functions in a desired pattern. In various embodiments, it may be advantageous if the shutter may also be used to partially-transmit light. For example, such that the SLM may be used to selectively transmit, attenuate and\/or block light from the light generator . One example of such an SLM may be a micro-display graphics array from CRL-Opto in Dunfermline, Scotland, United Kingdom, which includes an LCD pixel array that may generally be controlled by conventional video signals, if desired, and may be used to display an electronically generated 8-bit gray-scale pattern that may transmit, partially-transmit, or block the light  through any given pixel of the pattern, depending on its gray-scale value. In such a case, the various respective apertures may be implemented as features of the pattern, and the pattern may be controlled at conventional video rates. Alternatively, a custom LCD including a custom pattern of desired apertures may be used in various embodiments. It should be appreciated that the SLM  allows one light generator  to provide independently controllable lighting to a plurality of light channels, while also allowing the light from a plurality of light channels to be perfectly synchronized, for example as one light generator  is strobed during an image acquisition. The use of one light generator  also allows reduced cost and reduced size, relative to the use of an individual light generator for each light channel, for example.","Alternatively, the SLM  may include an arrangement of any now-known or later-developed type of controllable reflective shutters that can provide controllable light deflection in a desired pattern. In such a case, the light generator  may be arranged such that the light  will not reach the various light channels unless the controllable reflective shutters or pixels \u201ctransmit\u201d the light by reflecting and\/or deflecting light at a specific angle toward the various light channels. For example, in contrast to , the reflective SLM may be nominally oriented along a plane at 45 degrees relative to the light , and the reflective array elements may be aligned along that plane to transmit the light  toward the various respective light channels by reflecting and\/or deflecting it at a right angle to reach the various respective light channels. To effectively \u201cblock\u201d the light  from reaching the various light channels, the reflective array elements or pixels may be disabled from reflecting the light  at right angles, either by altering their individual angles, of by blocking their individual reflective light paths, for example using individually controllable LCD blocking elements. Examples of controllable reflective shutter arrays that may be used include liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS) micro-display products, for example, from CRL Opto, Dunfermline, Scotland, and digital light projector (DLP) micro-mirror products, for example, from Texas Instruments DLP Products, Plano, Tex. In such a case, the various respective apertures may be implemented as features of a reflective pattern, and the pattern may be controlled at conventional video rates. Although the micro-mirror type of devices may not provide partially-transmitting pixels, it will be appreciated that a light channel aperture implemented using a micro-mirror device may alternatively attenuate the light transmitted to a particular light channel by effective reducing the its aperture size, as needed. For example, the aperture diameter may be reduced by altering the configuration of the pixels that form the aperture.","As previously outlined, it may be advantageous if at least one of the lamps of the light generator  may be used in a strobe illumination mode of operation to provide a combination of a very fast light generator response time (in the \u03bcs or ns range) at suitable optical power levels. Such illumination is particularly advantageous for allowing imaging of workpieces while continuing to move the stage  (), which increases the throughput of the machine vision system \u2032. One example of a light generator  may include one or more high intensity light emitting diodes (LEDs), such as one of the LEDs in the Luxeon\u2122 product line, available from Lumileds Lighting, LLC, of San Jose, Calif., which may be used for both continuous wave (CW) and strobe illumination as described in the '351 patent. In various exemplary embodiments, a CW light source may include a high intensity discharge (HID) metal halide lamp and\/or a quartz halogen lamp.","In various exemplary embodiments, the strobe light generator may include a high intensity Xenon (Xe) flashlamp, such as model CX-1500 Xe flashlamp of the CX-Strobe\u2122 series from PerkinElmer\u00ae Optoelectronics of Fremont, Calif. The CX-1500 Xe flashlamp may illuminate across an electromagnetic spectrum for wavelengths between 250 nm and more than 1100 nm. In various embodiments, it may be desirable to filter the light from the flashlamp, to reduce heating and\/or chromatic aberrations. For example, the filter may pass the visible wavelength range between 390 nm (violet) and 750 nm (red) to the light channels. However, in various embodiments, other wavelengths ranges may be desired. The CX-1500 Xe flashlamp may cycle at a repeat rate of between 16 Hz and 35 Hz, with a pulse duration of between 8 \u03bcs and 10 \u03bcs. The CX-1500 Xe flashlamp may produce a radiometric output of 256 mJ and a photometric light output of 205 lumen-sec at 600 VDC that may be directed into a 0.9\u2033 (23 mm) diameter fiber optic guide.","It should be appreciated that a general purpose machine vision system may image a wide variety of workpieces, some of which may have surfaces with low reflectivity. Furthermore, magnified images may be desired. Furthermore, fast exposures, enabling imaging of moving workpieces may be desired. All of these factors tend to reduce the amount of light accumulated during an image exposure, as discussed further below. Thus, a very high intensity flashlamp may be advantageous for providing a very versatile machine vision inspection system.","The timing and synchronization portion may provide operations that send and receive control signals that synchronize the SLM , the light generator , the camera  and positioning of the machine vision inspection system \u2032. The SLM control portion may provide control for the various light channels by controlling the on-off timing, contrast, and aperture pattern, if applicable, of the SLM . The light generator control portion may provide control for the power levels, the trigger signals, and on-off timing (if applicable) of the one or more lamps or LED's, or the like, of the light generator . The light generator control portion may also provide for light path control for auxiliary light sources (if applicable), as outlined further below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","410","420","410","431","421","441","441","441","441","321","331","341","341","350","420","531","521","541","541","541","541","350","350","410"],"i":["a","b","c","d","a","d ","a","b","c","d"]},"For the example shown in , the double cross-hatched background represents a light-blocking region of the SLM . The stage light channel aperture representation  shows a similar double cross-hatching to represent a significantly light-blocking setting of the corresponding control . The coaxial light channel aperture representation  shows an unfilled area to represent a significantly light-transmitting setting of the corresponding control . The PRL light channel aperture representations , , , , show single cross-hatching to represent a partially light-transmitting setting of the corresponding controls , , , . The layout of the aperture representations , , and -in the SLM image field  may correspond directly to a physical layout of the apertures , , and -of the SLM , and to a physical layout of the input ends of the light cables , , and -(), which may be held in a fixture proximate to the SLM , such that they are properly aligned to receive transmitted light from the corresponding apertures. The particular layout shown in  is exemplary and is not limiting. Other configurations are possible and contemplated. It will be appreciated that the various aspects of aperture control described above with reference to FIG. , may also generally be provided under manual, semi-automatic, or automatic control as functions of the SLM control . Accordingly, these and other manual, semi-automatic, or automatic control measures over the apertures , , and -of the SLM  may be implemented to support various learn mode and\/or run mode operations of the machine vision inspection system \u2032.","The control window  may include panels with the \u201cslider\u201d controls outlined above, along with corresponding numerical settings, along with other slider controls, numerical displays and radio buttons to adjust and display selected parameters which may control the light intensities of the various lighting channels and their representations in the SLM image field . The PRL panel may include a \u201cgang\u201d PRL radio button  that indicates whether the PRL sources through are ganged together, i.e., adjusted to the same setting, rather than separately controlled.","The slider control scales may denote the range (from none to full) of the intensity to be transmitted by the corresponding aperture. The slider control pointer and the numerical display may indicate the selected value to which the respective light source intensity may have been set. The numerical display may denote a digital quantity across a binary integer grayscale range of 2from full illumination at 255 to no illumination at 0. In the example illustrated, the stage control panel  shows, for example, a low-level value of , the coaxial control panel  shows, for example, a high-level value of 234, while all the PRL control panels -show, for example, a mid-level value of 130. The PRL radio button  shows, for example, that the PRL sources are ganged together in this example.","A background radio button  may indicate a selection of the display background, being either white or black, shown in the example as being black (double cross-hatched.) In a set-up mode of operation, the respective slider controls of \u201cShift\u201d scales V and H may be used to adjust the position of the aperture pattern shown in the SLM image field  over a limited range along the vertical (V) and horizontal (H) directions, respectively. The actual location of the aperture pattern of the SLM  may be controlled in a corresponding manner. The alignment of the actual aperture pattern of the SLM  relative to the physical layout of the input ends of the light cables , , and -(), which may be held in a fixture proximate to the SLM , may be monitored by direct observation, or by monitoring a light transmission signal through the various light channels or the like, until the various apertures have been properly aligned to the various light cable using the \u201cShift\u201d controls. Then the corresponding \u201ccalibration\u201d settings may be stored in the SLM control , for use during ongoing operations of the machine vision inspection system \u2032.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["300","310","350","312","314","316","316","313","316","316","312","316","316","313","316","312","317","316","313","316","312"],"i":["b","b"]},"In either case, a light  may pass through the collimator lens , and be directed as collimated, or approximately collimated, light toward the SLM . In the example shown in , the light  may pass through an aperture , which may define the illumination area  (), and may then pass through a filter  to block wavelengths that may contribute deleterious effects, such as undesirable heating, or image blur, or the like. For example, in some applications, wavelengths in the ultraviolet portion of the electromagnetic spectrum may focus differently than a dominant imaging wavelength and degrade images. The light may then pass, for example, through the previously discussed respective apertures of the SLM  and into the respective optical cables of the optical cable arrangement  that are aligned with the respective apertures, to be transmitted to the respective positions of the illumination sources , , and , for example. The input ends of the optical cables of the optical cable arrangement  may be inserted into an alignment and mounting plate (not shown) that has a plurality of holes that receive the ends of the optical cables and hold them in an alignment that matches the aperture pattern of the SLM . The mounting plate may be mounted proximate to, or flush to, the SLM , and may also act as an optical baffle or barrier between the outputs of the various apertures and the optical cable ends, to reduce stray light \u201ccross talk\u201d between the light channels. An alternative configuration is shown in , described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","620"]},"As may be observed from the bar chart, increases in magnification reduce the amount of gathered light and the photographic exposure, and generally would demand greater quantities of light to provide sufficient photographic exposure. Also, darker materials, such as the floppy disk may require far greater quantities of light than brighter materials, such as the white connector, or specularly reflective materials, such as the mirrors. This difference in the amount of exposure light received for various materials and magnification demonstrates that the light levels that may be required for imaging and inspection of various magnified surfaces in a general purpose machine vision inspection system may vary widely. In fact, if the saturation values shown for the low-magnification imaging of various materials are to be avoided, and if the low illumination values shown for the higher-magnification imaging of various materials are to be brought up to acceptable imaging levels, the illumination intensity may be required to be adjustable over a range of many orders of magnitude. Thus, there is a need for an illumination system that provides an extraordinarily wide dynamic range and precise control of available illumination.","To increase throughput, imaging the workpiece  disposed on the stage  may be performed while the stage  remains in motion. Under selected conditions of image magnification and stage speed, a strobe light flash of high intensity and short duration may be required to sufficiently illuminate the workpiece  in a short enough exposure time to avoid image blur during workpiece motion. To achieve a desirable illumination dynamic range with short illumination and\/or exposure durations, an extremely bright strobe lamp, such as a Xe lamp, may be advantageous. For many types of lamps (which may also include LED's, or lasers, or the like, as the term \u201clamp\u201d is used herein), after being triggered the strobe flash \u201cprofile\u201d may temporally change in light intensity beginning with a gradual initial rise, followed by a rapid increase, a leveling off, a rapid reduction and a more gradual decay. Providing a reliable and consistent illumination exposure over a wide dynamic range using such a flash profile would be desirable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},"The chart  includes, for example, five timelines. The first timeline  represents an image acquisition trigger signal  beginning at a position trigger time Tbased on positional X-, Y- and Z-axis coordinates of the stage  (), which may correspond to a workpiece feature being positioned in the field of view of the camera .","The second timeline  represents a camera integration duration , that may have a programmable duration (T-T) as short as tens of microseconds, and as long as several milliseconds. The controlled duration may be controlled based on a high-speed clock, such that it is relatively consistent. The camera integration duration  may start at integration begin time Tand end at integration end time T. In some implementations, the integration begin time Tmay occur a discrete latency period (T-T) after the position trigger time Thas been used to initiate a camera integration period. However, the latency period may be relatively consistent.","The third timeline  represents the flash initiation signal  beginning at a pulse trigger time Tto initiate the strobe flash. In some implementations, the pulse trigger time Tmay be based by the same high-speed clock that is used to determine the camera integration duration . Therefore, a pulse trigger delay period (T-T) may be programmable, based on the high-speed clock, and relatively consistent. The beginning of the pulse trigger time Tmay initiate the strobe pulse flash intensity profile indicated by the fourth timeline . The flash intensity may exhibit a transient profile, described further below, that rises to a peak  before diminishing.","The fifth timeline  represents an exposure-related coordinate position latch signal  beginning at latch time Tthat may coincide with an effective or nominal exposure time. The X-, Y- and Z-coordinates for the stage  or the workpiece  at the latch time Tmay be associated with the acquired image and may be stored in memory . Descriptions of the timeline events, listed in order of occurrence during an image acquisition cycle, are summarized in Table 1 below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Event","No.","Time","Label"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["trigger image acquisition","715","position trigger acquisition","T"]},{"entry":["begin camera image","725","start integration","T"]},{"entry":"integration"},{"entry":"(T\u2192 T)"},{"entry":["strobe flash initiation","735","pulse trigger","T"]},{"entry":["flash pulse start",{},"start pulse","T"]},{"entry":["flash peak intensity","745"]},{"entry":["position latch signal","755","xyz coordinate assigned to","T"]},{"entry":[{},{},"image"]},{"entry":["end camera image",{},"integration end","T"]},{"entry":"integration"},{"entry":"(T\u2192 T)"},{"entry":["flash pulse end",{},"end pulse","T"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The strobe pulse flash intensity profile begins at the pulse trigger Twith an initial gradual rise until effective start of the flash at time T. After a rapid rise to a peak value , the flash may then diminish rapidly, to an effective end point of the flash at a time T, and then continue to decay, providing little additional illumination energy, as shown in . For a particular implementation and an particular lamp, a latency period between the pulse trigger time Tand the effective pulse start time Tmay be relatively consistent. Furthermore, for a given time period (T-T), the intensity profile and the illumination energy provided at a particular operating voltage for a particular lamp may be relatively consistent.","As previously indicated, with a Xe lamp, for example, the ability to vary the flash duration (or profile) may be limited, and the flash duration may be inherently less than a typical minimum camera integration period. Therefore, to reduce the effective exposure illumination provided by a strobe flash, by orders of magnitude, with consistent control, it may be desirable that the camera exposure end at a predictable and consistent time before the effective end time Tof the flash. As previously indicated, the pulse trigger delay period (T-T) may be programmable, based on the high-speed clock, and relatively consistent. Similarly, the programmable camera integration duration (T-T) may be programmable, based on the same high-speed clock, and relatively consistent. Furthermore, the latency period between the pulse trigger time Tand the effective pulse start time Tmay be relatively consistent. Therefore, for a given flash time period (T-T) and associated profile, the effective exposure illumination may be controlled by selecting and\/or programming the programmable camera integration duration (T-T) and the pulse trigger delay period (T-T), such that camera integration end time Tends at a predictable time during the flash profile, and truncates and determines the effective image exposure illumination. That is, to control the effective image illumination over a wide dynamic range, the start of the effective image exposure illumination may begin with the flash, a short time following the start of the camera integration period, and may end with the end of the camera integration period, during the strobe flash profile. Of course, all of the above latency times may calibrated or determined for particular machines, lamps, voltage levels, etc., by design and\/or experiment, and the results calibrated or stored such that a combination of timing, operating voltages, and the like, that provide a desired or calibrated illumination level may be readily determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 2 and 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["120","200","300","120","131","132","135","132","300","310","350","135","135","300","300"],"i":["b ","b","a "]},"The light generation system  may operate in conjunction with the SLM control portion , the timing and synchronization portion () and a video splitter . The timing and synchronization portion and the SLM control portion may be components of the light channel exposure and control portion  (). The vision measuring machine  () includes the camera  and light sources , ,  to illuminate the workpiece . The coaxial mirror  directs the light from the coaxial light source  toward the workpiece .","The camera  may receive signals from the imaging control interface , and may transmit image data via the imaging control interface  via a video input . The camera  may also receive and transmit signals between a serial communicator . A digital monitor  and\/or an analog monitor  may display information related to the SLM  (for example, as one means to implement the SLM setup and control GUI , described with reference to ). The SLM control portion may supply SLM video signals to the video splitter  and the digital monitor . The video splitter  may supply video signals to the timing and synchronization portion , and the SLM interface portion as well as with the analog monitor . For example, the video signal supplied to the SLM interface portion may be a conventional video signal, and the SLM interface portion may receive and decode the video signal into digital control signals suitable for operating an SLM  that may comprise an LCD pixel array, to produce a desired aperture configuration and operating state. Generally, such SLM interface decoders are commercially available from many vendors of LCD pixel array displays, such as the vendor of the LCD array previously described.","The timing and synchronization portion may receive a position trigger output signal (for example, see , ) from the motion control interface  (conventional motion controllers may be programmed to provide such position triggers) and relay a related signal to the imaging control interface  (\u201cOptoTRIG\u201d in ) to maintain the timing relationships described with reference to . The imaging control interface  may supply an exposure trigger signal to the camera  to initiate the start of a camera integration period (for example, see , ) and supply a pulse trigger (for example, see , ) to the light generator , which may provide light to the SLM  for distribution to the light sources , , . The pulse trigger signal may be delayed relative to the exposure trigger signal by a programmable amount, based on a high speed clock included in the imaging control interface . This programmable delay, in conjunction with the programmed integration period of the camera  (and, possibly, various consistent timing latencies) may be used to control the effective image exposure illumination, as previously described with reference to . The high speed clock and the programmable integration period and pulse trigger signal delay may be implemented in various commercially available frame grabbers.","The timing and synchronization portion may supply a position latch trigger signal (for example, see , ) to the motion control interface , in order to latch the X-, Y- and Z-coordinates for the stage  or the workpiece  at a time that corresponds to the effective image exposure time. For example, the timing and synchronization portion may implement a latching time that best corresponds to the effective image exposure time based on the known pulse trigger signal time and the known camera integration period, which allows the timing of the effective image exposure period (for example, see T-T, ) to be known. For example, for short effective image exposure periods, it may be sufficient for the position latch timing to be set at the middle of the period (T-T). Or, for a more accurate effective image exposure time, the position latch time may be set at the intensity-weighted average time of the period (T-T), based on the known flash intensity profile, which may be determined experimentally, for example. The pulse trigger signal time that is used to determine the effective image exposure time may be determined internally to the timing and synchronization portion , based on a delay related to the signal supplied to the imaging control interface  (\u201cOptoTRIG\u201d in ), or, optionally, the pulse trigger signal time that is used may be determined based on sending the pulse trigger signal in parallel to the synchronization portion , when it is sent to light generator .","Examples of selected components are described herein. The serial communicator  may represent an interface control tool. The control system portion  may include a personal computer backplane with the SLM control portion provided by a Matrox dual video interface (DVI) daughter board and the imaging control interface  including a Corona II frame-grabber, both available from Matrox Electronic Systems Ltd, St-R\u00e9gis Dorval (Qu\u00e9bec), Canada. The vision measuring machine  may use Quick Vision\u2122 controls for controlling the various light sources. The SLM interface portion and the SLM  may be provided by a micro-display graphics array and associated electronics from CRL-Opto in Dunfermline, Scotland, United Kingdom. The motion control interface  may include a motion controller, for example one of the DMC-XXXX series of motion control cards commercially available from Galil Motion Control, Rocklin, Calif., or a motion control card such as that supplied as part of the previously described Quick Vision\u2122 systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["300","945","300","300","314"]},"The light  may be channeled, for example, through a fiber bundle light conduit  to then pass, as collimated light \u2032, through the aperture , the filter  and the SLM , which are located in a second portion of the light generation system \u2032. The second portion of the light generation system \u2032 may include a hinged mirror , similar to the hinged mirror . In a first position , the light \u2032 may shine directly into the previously described optical cable arrangement , to provide all of the previously described illumination functions.","Alternatively, the SLM  may be a controllable element that may include, or be configurable or programmable to form, a structured light pattern, in addition to the exemplary aperture patterns described above. For example, the structured light pattern may include a regular pattern of light (light transmitting) and dark (light blocking) stripes at a desired pitch, and may be formed using the previously described LCD pixel array. In such a case, the collimated light \u2032 that passes through the SLM  will may provide a field of parallel stripes of light. In a second position , the hinged mirror may deflect the parallel stripes of light to pass through focusing and\/or magnifying, and\/or collimating lenses  before being emitted to provide a structured light source  that may be used to illuminate the workpiece  (). The structured light source  may be mounted at a fixed and\/or known position to emit the parallel light stripes toward the workpiece  along an axis that is arranged at a known angle relative to the optical axis of the machine vision inspection system \u2032. Thus, an image  of the structured light pattern on the surface of the workpiece  may be used in conjunction with known structured light triangulation techniques to determine relative dimensions of the profile of the workpiece  along the Z-axis direction. Various related teachings regarding the use of LCD arrays and structured light techniques are included in U.S. Pat. No. 6,690,474, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","It should be appreciated that in embodiments where the SLM  may be implemented such that the various respective channel apertures may be partially transmitting, for example, when the previously described LCD pixel array is used, the SLM  may advantageously be used to increase the dynamic range of the effective image exposure illumination. That is, in addition to the dynamic range control provided by the previously described measures of controlling the camera integration period and the strobe flash timing, gray-level control of an LCD pixel array, or a custom LCD element, or the like, may be used in parallel with any of the foregoing techniques, to provide additional illumination dynamic range.","Table 2 shows various factors which may be used in various combinations to provide a desired illumination level, including the use of a partially-transmitting type of SLM. Row 1 shows that an LCD pixel array may provide a variable illumination attenuation that may be controlled with an 8-bit gray-level command. However, in practice, the actual level of variation observed in the transmitted light is limited to approximately 150:1. Row 2 shows that an LCD pixel array may provide a variable \u201cbrightness\u201d attenuation that affects all pixels at once, and may provide an actual level of variation observed in the transmitted light that is approximately 1.2:1. Row 3 shows that a Xe strobe lamp may provide a variable \u201cbrightness\u201d depending on its operating voltage level, and may provide an actual level of variation observed in the provided and transmitted light that is approximately 17:1. Row 4 shows that a Xe strobe lamp generally provides an effective exposure time that is shorter than a typical minimum camera integration period, therefore, for strobe exposures, the overall duration of the camera exposure period is not used to affect the exposure. However, as previously indicated, the pulse duration may be set so as to stop the image exposure to effectively truncate part of the flash profile. Row 5 shows that the pulse trigger delay (for example, see [T-T], ), which governs the relative timing between the camera integration period and the flash profile, may be adjusted in 40 ns time steps. That is, the flash profile may be selectively eliminated from the image exposure, in 40 ns time steps. In practice, the actual level of variation observed in the transmitted light by using this control measure may be approximately 250:1. Rows 6 and 7 show factors which may vary from machine to machine, lamp to lamp, etc. Generally, it may be desirable to calibrate and\/or compensate these variations. Overall, according to Table 2, all of these techniques may be used in combination to provide an effective image exposure illumination dynamic range of approximately 765,000:1 in a set of relatively precisely controlled and repeatable increments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Actual",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Adjustment","Adjustment",{},"effect on",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Item","Setting","steps","Units ","exposure","Control Level"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Pixel","\u2009\u20030-255","DN",{},"150:1\u2003","Individual light"]},{"entry":[{},"brightness","(8 bit)",{},{},{},"channels (Individual"]},{"entry":[{},"(SLM)",{},{},{},{},"Pixels of SLM)"]},{"entry":["2","Display","\u20090x00-0x80","DN",{},"1.2:1\u2002\u2009","All Light Channels"]},{"entry":[{},"brightness",{},{},{},{},"together"]},{"entry":[{},"(SLM)",{},{},{},{},"(Entire SLM at once)"]},{"entry":["3","Xe brightness","\u2009150-600","Volts","Volt","17:1\u2002","All Light Channels"]},{"entry":[{},"(flash lamp)",{},{},{},{},"together"]},{"entry":["4","CCD exposure","\u20020.1-250","10's of \u03bcs","time","None","All Light Channels"]},{"entry":[{},"(Tei-Tsi)",{},"(but stable",{},{},"together (Entire"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"and",{},{},"camera at once) Note:"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"repeatable)",{},{},"No effect for strobe"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"exposures. Strobe"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"pulse timing controls"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"effective exposure time."]},{"entry":["5","Pulse trigger","\u2009\u20030-250","40 ns time","time","250:1*\u2002","All Light Channels"]},{"entry":[{},"delay",{},"steps",{},{},"together"]},{"entry":[{},"(Tpt-Tsi)",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["6","Pulse rise time","f(V)","None. Fixed","time","None","Pulse delay vs. lamp"]},{"entry":[{},"delay",{},"or calibrated",{},{},"voltage is"]},{"entry":[{},"(Tpt-Tsp)",{},{},{},{},"characterized. Used"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"to compensate Tpt, if"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},"needed."]},{"entry":["7","Xe pulse","\u200910-30","None. Fixed","\u03bcs","None",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"or calibrated",{},{},{}]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 7 and 8"],"b":["1000","1010","1020","1030","300","300"]},"The abscissa in  may correspond to the light setting (power setting) during continuous illumination that produces a satisfactory \u201cstationary\u201d workpiece image that may be acquired throughout a reference or standard exposure time, such as the frame rate of conventional cameras. This method of illumination and exposure may be conventional, and may be well-suited for operation of a vision machine during manual operations and training mode operations that involve a machine operator. The ordinate in  may correspond to a strobe duration time necessary for a given strobe light power to achieve an image intensity equivalent to the light setting (power setting) during continuous illumination, that is, to achieve the same total exposure illumination energy for that light source.","A particular total exposure illumination energy may be defined as corresponding to a particular continuous illumination level, when using the reference or standard exposure time. This energy may be divided by a particular strobe light average power level that may directly determine the corresponding required strobe duration time to a first approximation. Each of the exemplary strobe light power curves , ,  may reflect a respective strobe lamp power setting consistent for each point along the respective curves. Thus, operation according to any point along the higher power curve  may allow a shorter strobe duration time than operation according to corresponding (vertically aligned) points along either of the lower power curves , . When using the light generation system  or \u2032 and the various systems and methods outlined above, higher strobe light power curves may correspond to higher strobe lamp operating voltages and\/or controlling the pixels of an LCD pixel array used for the SLM  to be fully transmitting. Lower strobe light power curves may correspond to lower strobe lamp operating voltages and\/or controlling the pixels of an LCD pixel array used for the SLM  to be only partially transmitting.","In order to provide the shortest possible strobe duration and produce images having the least motion-related blur and the smallest possible uncertainty in the elevation distance, there are advantages to operating at a point toward the lower left end of any strobe light power curve.","Each strobe light source may inherently have a maximum allowable power level and, in the absence of other camera response considerations, and other analogous devices, this factor may determine the fastest allowed strobe duration. The higher power curve  generally represents such a maximum power level. For a maximum or selected power level and a desired operating point, for example, as indicated by the line , the corresponding strobe duration period may then be determined.","The strobe duration period may provide the required matching total exposure illumination energy. The lines , , generally represent alternative settings for providing a desired illumination level by using respective strobe duration times corresponding to respective strobe light power levels. Also, for a desired strobe duration time defined along the ordinate, the corresponding required strobe light power may be determined at the intersection of the abscissa and ordinate values in the plot .","An operator may input control parameters such as workpiece positions, light source intensity mixtures, etc. to inspect one or more workpieces manually, semi-automatically, or automatically. An example of types of parameters that may be entered is shown in Table 3 below. Parameters such as workpiece image acquisition positions, stage velocity, magnification, light intensities, etc., may be provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Parameter Name","Parameter Value"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","Workpiece Position(s)","X-, Y-, Z-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"coordinates"]},{"entry":["2","Stage Velocity","V"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["3","Ring light:","% of available power or duty cycle","100%"]},{"entry":["4","Coaxial light","% of available power or duty cycle","\u200275%"]},{"entry":["5","Stage Light","% of available power or duty cycle","\u200250%"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["6","Magnification","1 x"]},{"entry":["7","Edge Position Tolerance or Allowable Blur","\u00b11.5 micron or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u00b10.25 pixels"]},{"entry":["8","etc.","etc."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The parameters in Table 3 are only examples, and in particular situations, more, or fewer, or alternate parameters may be necessary for compatibility with different equipment designs.","The control parameters may be determined by an operator who places a sample workpiece  () onto the stage  () and determines the best position, magnification, lighting, etc., with which to perform the image capture to obtain optimal results. An operator may image a sample workpiece  with various parameter combinations and observe the image captured by the camera  () and assess whether the edges are properly determined After obtaining an operable set of parameters, the operator may enter those parameter values as programmed control parameters.","The control system portion  may process the control parameters established by the operator that may be obtained during the static imaging conditions of a training mode and convert them to appropriate control commands for dynamic image capture during the continuous motion conditions of an automatic inspection mode. For example, successive image acquisition locations and the associated total illumination energy to be provided by each light source may be established by the operator during a training mode and the measurement path, velocities, SLM settings corresponding to the various light sources, effective strobe duration period corresponding to the various light sources, etc, may then be optimized by appropriate processing and\/or analysis in the control system portion  (), in order to yield the highest throughput, or best accuracy, etc., during automatic inspection program execution. After the dynamic image capture control commands for the automatic inspection program have been generated, the control commands (and the control parameters) may be stored in the memory  for later retrieval and use.","After processing the control parameters and\/or retrieving control commands from the memory  (), the control system portion  downloads image acquisition position parameters, the associated light control command information, and any other appropriate information to the lighting control interface  and\/or the light channel exposure and control portion  and\/or the light generation system  and may control the other system components to execute an inspection process. In various applications, it may be desirable to use the dedicated processing and deterministic timing of the light generation system  in order to simultaneously control the high speed light pulse patterns of multiple light sources with sufficient accuracy, and at the desired position along a high-speed motion path. For example, the motion controller  may receive stage velocity information and command the stage  to move the workpiece  after receiving position information from the light generation system , which may receive control commands from control system portion  and processes the control commands into specific data to control an image capture operation.","The captured images may be processed by the video tool portion . The image capture cycles may be repeated until completion of a total number of inspection images for each workpiece  (), and the control system portion  issues a next position signal corresponding to a next (if any) workpiece .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1100","10","1105","1110","1120","1110","1120"]},"In step S, the machine vision inspection system may analyze the light power or intensity settings input in step S and determine timing relationships between the strobe flash profile and the camera integration period, and\/or a strobe lamp operating voltage, based on the light power or intensity settings, such that the strobe illumination that is integrated during the camera integration period provides an illumination level that is sufficient for all of the respective selected light source channels, in comparison to their respective light power or intensity settings. The control parameters corresponding to the determined timing and\/or voltage level may be stored in memory and\/or implemented in the appropriate circuits or routines. The corresponding strobe illumination level may exceed the respective light power or intensity settings for some or all of the light source channels, if a controllable SLM is available to attenuate the light transmission to the various light source channels. In a decision step S, it may be determined whether the timing and\/or voltage level determined in step S is sufficient to provide the desired light power and\/or intensity setting for each selected light source. If so, then operation may jump to step S. Otherwise, operation proceeds to step S. In step S, the respective light channel apertures are adjusted in the SLM to provide respective partial light transmission settings and\/or respective aperture sizes that provide a level of light transmission attenuation that provides the desired light power and\/or intensity level for each respective light channel. It should be appreciated that a light channel aperture size can be reduced in the SLM, instead of, or in addition to adjusting the pixel gray-levels or the like, in order to attenuate the light transmission through a light source channel aperture. It should be appreciated that in the step S, the SLM may be adjusted independently for each light source channel aperture, such that one strobe flash can be differently attenuated for each respective light source channel, to provide a desired combination of illumination levels for multiple light sources during a single flash.","In an optional step S, the light control settings determined in steps S-S may be tested by acquiring and evaluating a workpiece image using the settings. For example, the user may observe the resulting image on a display of the machine vision inspection system during learn mode, and accept or reject the image. If the image is rejected, the light control settings may be refined and retested until an acceptable image results. However, if the image illumination is not critical for a particular image, and\/or if the various light control settings are adequately accurate and\/or calibrated such that reliable illumination levels are obtained without confirmation of the determined settings, then the step S may be omitted. In step S the final light control settings determined in steps S-S may be applied to acquire a workpiece image suitable for learn mode inspection operations and\/or recorded, for example, in a part program that may be used later for automatic high-speed inspection. The process may then end in step S.","Artisans having skill in the art will recognize and understand that various functions for the systems and methods for controlling strobe illumination may be performed in any manner among any quantity (e.g., one or many) of hardware and\/or software modules or units, computers or processing systems or circuitry. The control system portions may be integrated within a stand-alone system or may be executed separately and be coupled to any number of devices, workstation computers, server computers or data storage devices via any communications medium (e.g., network, modem, direct connection, wireless transmission).","The control system processes may be implemented by any quantity of devices or processing systems (e.g., IBM-compatible, Apple, Palm Pilot, Blackberry). The computer system may include any commercially available or customized operating system (e.g., Windows, Macintosh, Unix, Linux, OS\/2, DOS) to execute any commercially available or custom designed software (e.g., Quick Vision\u2122) and any type of input devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, microphone, I\/O port, wireless receiver). It is to be understood that the software of the strobe illumination control may be implemented in any desired computer language (e.g., C, C++, Java, Fortran, Lisp, SQL), and could be developed by one of ordinary skill in the computer and\/or programming arts based on the functional description contained herein. Moreover, such software may be available or distributed via any suitable medium (e.g., stored on magnetic or optical devices such as CD-ROM and diskette), downloaded from the internet or other network, downloaded from a bulletin board, or other conventional distribution mechanisms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 7","FIG. 12"],"b":["1200","1200","700","710","1210"]},"As previously outlined, the timelines shown in  correspond to embodiments wherein the beginning of the exposure duration or camera integration period precedes the illumination pulse trigger and then ends during the illumination pulse, to allow for effective image exposure times which are less than both the illumination pulse duration and the camera integration period. Short image exposure times provided by this \u201coverlap\u201d control technique allow a clear \u201cfrozen\u201d image of a workpiece at increased motion speeds, which increases inspection throughput. Such embodiments may be most suited to strobe illumination sources that use a high intensity Xenon (Xe) flashlamp, or the like, wherein the ability to precisely control the strobe pulse intensity profile (e.g. the decay rate of the strobe pulse) and\/or duration is limited. Such embodiments may also be suited to systems and\/or applications that use relatively longer strobe exposure times (e.g. on the order of microseconds).","In contrast, for strobe illumination sources that use high powered LEDs, wherein the pulse intensity profile and\/or duration may be more precisely controlled, and\/or where the shortest possible effective image exposure times are desired, embodiments corresponding to the timelines shown in , may be most suitable. Briefly, in such embodiments, the illumination pulse duration is triggered to start first, the camera integration period is triggered to start after a delay relative to the start of the illumination pulse duration, and the illumination pulse duration ends during the camera integration period, may be more advantageous for avoiding illumination noise and improving image exposure repeatability, while also providing shorter image exposure times, as outlined below.","In particular, increasingly powerful LED strobe sources allow and\/or require shorter image exposure times. High power LED illumination which may include wavelength altering phosphor materials or the like and may have a drive current on the order of 40 A. For example, a single chip, monolithic PhlatLight LED from Luminus of Billerica, Mass. may be suitable as an LED strobe source. However, such strobe sources may include illumination noise components as described in greater below. It should be appreciated that decreasing exposure times means that any noise component (e.g. intensity variations) in the illumination pulse is averaged into a shorter image exposure time. As a result, image exposure repeatability suffers, particularly for shorter exposure times. Reduced image exposure repeatability degrades potential accuracy in certain operations (e.g. autofocus and\/or focus height determination, as one example), introducing errors that are significant, particularly in precision machine vision inspection systems. Thus, it is important to further decrease and\/or compensate illumination noise components that may otherwise be included in short image exposure times.","Powerful LED strobe sources may be driven using currents as large as 40 amperes (40 A), or more. An initial noise period of intensity noise of the illumination pulse may be associated with the transient circuit effects of starting such a high current pulse into the LED. Thus, in some embodiments, the control system portion is configured to control a timing relationship between the camera integration period and a pulse duration of the radiation emitted by the strobe light generator such that an image exposure of the camera image occurs during a timing overlap between a beginning of the camera integration period and an end of the pulse duration. In other words, the timing relationship is controlled such that the illumination pulse duration starts, the camera integration period begins after a delay relative to a start of the pulse duration and not later than the end of the pulse duration, and the pulse duration may end before the camera integration period ends. By providing the image exposure during the timing overlap at the end of the pulse duration, the aforementioned initial noise period of the illumination pulse duration is avoided, in order to provide more repeatable image illumination levels (e.g. for repeated images, such as an image stack that is acquired and used in various known autofocus operations). Thus, this method provides the ability to increase the dynamic range of exposures for which simple time-based control may be used, without degrading repeatability of the exposure level, even for very short pulse durations.","The chart  includes five timelines analogous to those shown in . A timeline  represents an image acquisition trigger signal  beginning at a position trigger time Tbased on positional X-, Y- and Z-axis coordinates of the stage  (see ). A timeline  represents a camera integration period , having a programmable duration starting at time Tand ending at T, controlled based on a high-speed clock, such that it is relatively consistent (although various cameras may require a minimum integration period that spans several clock cycles). The timeline  represents the flash initiation signal , beginning at a pulse trigger time Tinitiated based on the position trigger time T(e.g. based on a fixed circuit latency or a programmed delay) to trigger the strobe flash or pulse indicated by the timeline . The start time Tof the pulse duration may occur with a discrete latency period (T-T) after the pulse trigger time Thas been used to trigger the strobe pulse. However, the latency period may be relatively consistent. In various implementations, the pulse trigger time Tmay be based on, or may start, the same high-speed clock that is used to determine the camera integration duration . Therefore, in such embodiments the effective delay of the start time Tof the camera integration period may be programmable to be consistent relative to the start time Tof the strobe pulse duration , based on the high-speed clock. The pulse duration  may be constant based on known circuit design techniques, in some embodiments, or may be precisely programmed based on the high speed clock in other embodiments. Therefore, the overlap between the start time Tof the camera integration period and the end time Tof the pulse duration may be precisely controlled, in order to determine the image exposure. The image exposure may be stopped by ending the pulse duration, and the camera integration period may be ended at a desired time thereafter.","As outlined previously, the illumination intensity immediately after the start of the pulse duration  may be unstable or noisy during a noisy pulse portion , between the time Tand a time T, due to transient circuit effects associated with starting a high current through the illumination source. However, the pulse intensity may be stable or consistent during a pulse portion , until an ending portion of the pulse duration . Therefore, it is advantageous to begin the image integration period after a delay relative to a start of the pulse duration (e.g. a delay such that Tfollows T), in order to start the image exposure during the stable portion of the pulse duration , and avoid the intensity noise. In some embodiments, it is desirable for the pulse duration to be set at a value in a range of 50-150 \u03bcs (or even as low as 5 \u03bcs with extremely bright strobe illumination), for example, and to provide a delay of at least 15 \u03bcs in order for intensity instabilities to settle. In other embodiments, a delay of at least 25 \u03bcs may be more desirable. Of course, the delay must start the camera integration period to be no later than the end of the pulse duration , otherwise the strobe pulse cannot illuminate the image.","The timeline  represents an exposure-related coordinate position latch signal  beginning at latch time Tthat may coincide with an effective or nominal exposure time according to previously outlined principles. The X-, Y- and Z-coordinates for the stage  or the workpiece  at the latch time Tmay be associated with the acquired image and may be stored in memory , as previously described.","The timing relationships shown in  and described above may be controlled to provide a desired overlap time (T-T) and thereby control the corresponding effective image illumination over a wide dynamic range. In some embodiments, the machine vision system comprises an image brightness control and the control system portion is configured to control the overlap time (T-T) based on a setting of the image brightness control. For example, this may be governed by a user interface wherein a user may adjust a level of image exposure with the image brightness control. In one embodiment, the control system portion may be configured to set the pulse duration (T-T) to a constant value and control the delay (T-T) based on the setting of the image brightness control, such that the overlap time (T-T) is \u201cindirectly\u201d controlled. In another embodiment, the control system portion is configured to set the delay (T-T) to a constant value and control the pulse duration (T-T) based on the setting of the image brightness control, i.e. such that the overlap time (T-T) is \u201cindirectly\u201d controlled. In another embodiment, the control system portion is configured to determine the time T(e.g. by precisely triggering or detecting the start of the camera integration period at the time Tand triggering the end of the pulse duration Tat a particular overlap delay governed by a high speed clock such that the overlap time (T-T) is directly controlled based on controlling the overlap delay according to the setting of the image brightness control. In summary, in some embodiments, the control system comprises a high speed clock, and the setting of the image brightness control corresponds to a range of adjustment time units that adjust the timing of T, or T, or both, directly or indirectly, as outlined above. In one example embodiment, the range of adjustment time units may comprise 100 units, corresponding to an overlap time range of 0 to 50 \u03bcs, with each adjustment time unit corresponding to an increment of 0.5 \u03bcs. A maximum light control setting of 100 units therefore corresponds to a maximum image exposure overlap time of 50 \u03bcs. However, this example is not limiting. In various embodiments, the resolution of brightness control is limited only by the clock speed that is used to control the overlap period (T-T) that governs the image exposure. For example, a clock speed of 25 MHz may provide adjustment time units as fine as 40 ns.","In some embodiments, the image brightness control comprises a lowest setting which corresponds to a state wherein the overlap time (T-T) is set to approximately zero, which may cause the lowest setting to operate such that pixel signals output by the camera as a result of an image exposure of a bright object at that setting are at or just above their lowest level (e.g. at a minimum limit value of zero, one or two for an 8-bit grey level signal). Such a setting is useful for imaging highly reflective workpieces, for example. In some embodiments, in order to accomplish this calibration of the brightness controls of the machine vision inspection system, the control system comprises an overlap calibration portion configured to define a timing offset dthat provides a desired pixel signal level (e.g. a minimum limit signal level) for a particular low level brightness setting (e.g. the minimum brightness setting). The timing offset dis a fixed timing offset that the control system consistently adds to (or subtracts from) one or more timings that determine the overlap time (e.g. the timing of T, or T, or both, directly or indirectly) in order to compensate for various component tolerances, various circuit timing latencies, and the like. The timing offset dmay be selected such that when the image brightness control comprises a lowest setting, it corresponds to a state wherein the overlap time (T-T) is set to approximately zero, as outlined above. In some embodiments that use a high speed clock (e.g. 25 MHz, or more) to provide adjustment time units that govern the effective exposure time, the overlap time may be considered to be set to approximately zero when (T-T) is at most 5 clock cycles, or less. It should be appreciated that a system using the timing relationships and adjustment principles described herein with respect to  allows for a large overlap time at a lower cost than a system using other timing or illumination arrangements (e.g. the timing relationships in ), while allowing for very fine image brightness control and ease of use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0122"},"figref":["FIG. 13A","FIG. 7"],"b":["1300","1300","1210","1215","1370","1371","1371","1370","1372","1372","1215","1371","1370","1372","1210","1371","1372","1371","1215","1372"],"sub":"pta ","i":["p ","p ","p ","p ","p ","p ","p. "]},"A timeline  represents counted pulses of a high speed clock signal, wherein the clock signal or the counting is started based on the synchronization pulse . The timeline  represents the flash initiation signal , beginning at a pulse trigger time T, which may be used in the manner previously described with reference to , to trigger the start of the pulse duration  as shown in the timeline  of . In this embodiment, as shown in , the flash initiation signal , beginning at a pulse trigger time T, is initiated at a desired number of clock cycles Npt represented on the timeline . Thus, according to the sequence outlined above, the pulse trigger time Tand the resulting illumination pulse duration  (shown in ) may be consistently synchronized with the ripple component represented in the timeline , within approximately one cycle of the high speed clock (e.g. 40 nS), or less. As previously outlined with reference to , the timing of the camera integration period, and thus the overlap time (T-T) may also be controlled based on the high speed clock (e.g. as represented in the timeline ), and therefore may be similarly consistently synchronized with the ripple component represented in the timeline . Thus, the image exposure during the overlap time (T-T) (shown in ) may be repeatable for a given exposure control setting, despite the ripple component outlined above. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments, the ripple component may cause a control input\/output curve to exhibit small local non-linearities, but the output associated with each control input will be repeatable according to the principles outlined above. In other embodiments, the repeatability may allow a calibration procedure to be used to precisely linearize the input\/output curve, if desired. The ripple component may have a period on the order of 7 microseconds, in various embodiments, whereas the high speed clock may allow timing control increments on the order of 40 nS. Therefore, various timings may be adjusted in small increments relative to the ripple component, such that its effects may be compensated in brightness control settings, if desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":["FIG. 13B","FIG. 13B","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 13A"],"b":["1300","13","1300","1240","1245","1220","1225","1370","1371","1371","1370","1374","1374","1371","1370","1374","1371","1374","1374"],"sub":"sp","i":["p\u2032 ","p ","p\u2032 ","p ","p ","p "]},"The synchronization pulse starts the camera integration period  at the time Tsi, and initiates the counted pulses of a high speed clock signal as represented in the timeline . In this embodiment, as shown in , the pulse duration  is ended at the time Tbased on a desired number of clock cycles Nepd after the camera integration period start. Thus, according to the sequence outlined above, the overlap time (T-T) may be consistently synchronized with the ripple component represented in the timeline , and precisely controlled based on the high speed clock. Thus, the image exposure during the overlap time (T-T) may be repeatable for a given exposure control setting, despite the ripple component.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIGS. 13A and 13B","FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIG. 8","FIG. 14A","FIG. 8","FIGS. 14A","FIG. 8"],"b":["1400","1400","14","310","310","14"]},"The components of , may used to implement the signals of . In this embodiment, a strobe light generator \u2032 of the light generator system \u2032 may include a high power LED illumination source and a drive circuit that provides a drive signal that provides power to the illumination source. The drive signal may exhibit a periodic ripple component, as outlined above. The light generator system \u2032 may include a ripple detection circuit portion , which is configured to be connected to the drive circuit of the light generator \u2032, and to input and\/or sense the ripple component  and output the pulses previously shown and described with reference to , according to known signal processing techniques. In the embodiment shown in , the pulses are output on the signal line(s)  to a synchronization circuit included in the timing and synchronization portion \u2032. The synchronization circuit may also receive a position trigger output signal (see , ) from the motion control interface  (see ), and send the timing signal \u201cOptoTRIG\u201d to the imaging control interface . The signal OptoTRIG may correspond to, or be identical to, the signal pulse  shown in . The imaging control interface  may include a high speed clock that generates and\/or counts the clock pulses shown in the timeline  of  and generates the signal \u201cPulse Trigger\u201d, which may correspond to, or be identical to, the signal pulse  shown in . That signal may trigger the strobe light generator \u2032 to start the pulse duration  as previously outlined with reference to  and . The imaging control interface  may also generate the other timing relationships previously described with reference to  and .","The components of , may be used to implement the signals of . In this embodiment, a strobe light generator \u2033 of the light generator system \u2033 may include a high power LED illumination source and a drive circuit that provides a drive signal that provides power to the illumination source. The drive signal may exhibit a periodic ripple component, as outlined above. The light generator system \u2033 may include a ripple detection circuit portion \u2032, which is configured to be connected to the drive circuit of the light generator \u2033, and to input and\/or sense the ripple component  and output the pulses previously shown and described with reference to , according to known signal processing techniques. In the embodiment shown in , the pulses are output on the signal line(s)  to a synchronization circuit included in the timing and synchronization portion ","The timing and synchronization portion may receive a position trigger output signal (see , ) from the motion control interface  (see ), and send the timing signal \u201cOptoTRIG\u201d to the imaging control interface . The imaging control interface  may include a high speed clock, and at an appropriated time may generate the signal \u201cPulse Trigger\u201d which may trigger the strobe light generator \u2033 to start the pulse duration  as previously outlined with reference to  and . The imaging control interface  may also generate and output the delay enable pulse DEp shown and described with reference to . The synchronization circuit may input the delay enable pulse DEp, and the pulses from the ripple detection circuit \u2032, and generate the Exposure Trigger signal (e.g. using a known AND circuit that outputs a single pulse, which may be identical to the synchronization signal , shown and described with reference to . In this embodiment, the synchronization circuit outputs the Exposure Trigger to start the camera integration period. It also includes a high speed clock that generates and\/or counts the clock pulses shown in the timeline  of  and generates a signal that is output on the signal line(s)  to trigger the strobe light generator \u2033 to end the pulse duration  as previously outlined with reference to  and .","It should be appreciated that the foregoing principles regarding synchronizing an effective image exposure time with a ripple component in a strobe illumination intensity may be used more generally to advantage, regardless of the details of how the image exposure time is controlled. For example, more generally, the ripple component synchronization principles outlined above may be used when the start and end of an effective image exposure time are determined as outlined above, or determined solely by the start and end of a pulse duration that is embedded within a camera integration period, or determined solely by the start and end of a camera integration period that is embedded within a pulse duration, or determined by the start of a pulse duration and the end of an overlapping camera integration period (e.g. as shown in ). In each case, synchronizing an effective image exposure time with a ripple component in a strobe illumination intensity will improve the repeatability of the associated image exposure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 12"],"b":["1500","13","13","1510"]},"Next, at a block , the control system portion is operated to control a timing relationship between an image integration period of the camera and a pulse duration of the radiation emitted by the strobe light generator, to control an image exposure of the camera image during a timing overlap which occurs between a beginning of the camera integration period and an end of the pulse duration, wherein operating the control system portion to control the timing relationship comprises: starting the pulse duration; starting the camera integration period after a delay relative to a start of the pulse duration and not later than the end of the pulse duration, in order to start the image exposure; ending the pulse duration in order to stop the image exposure; ending the camera integration period not earlier than the ending of the pulse duration. In various embodiments, the camera integration period may end after the ending of the pulse duration. After the operations of block  the method may end. In various embodiments, the operations of the block  may be implemented as outlined above with reference to . However, such embodiments are exemplary only, and not limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art may recognize alternative implementations, based on the principles and teachings disclosed herein.","It will be appreciated that various of the above-disclosed and other features and functions, or alternatives thereof, may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also, various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives, modifications, variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art, and are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various details are described below with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIGS. 13A and 13B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 12"],"b":["13","13"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
