---
title: Processing file modifications in a networked storage system
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for processing file modifications in a networked storage system. A new version of a file is obtained from a client over a network. The new version of the file is stored in a file system maintained by a networked storage system. If a modification listener is associated with the file, a notification that the file has been modified is sent to the modification listener.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658935&OS=09658935&RS=09658935
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09658935
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110615
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Software as a service (SaaS) is a software-delivery model where applications and data are centrally hosted. Users of SaaS systems typically access the applications using a browser or another type of thin client. Similarly, platform as a service (PaaS) refers to the delivery of a computing platform or solution stack as a centrally hosted service. Configuration parameters for SaaS and PaaS systems may be updated through a network page interface, a command-line interface, or an application programming interface (API).","Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to remote storage of data files according to a utility computing model. A networked file system may be employed to provide access to files stored in a cloud computing resource comprising a networked plurality of computing devices. In some embodiments, the networked file system may correspond to a virtual file system where the actual data objects of the files are stored in a separate data storage system. A metadata service may be used to associate metadata with the files, thereby facilitating searches of the files using the metadata. By storing files in such a networked file system, users may access the files from any computing device that has network connectivity.","According to various embodiments, notifications of modifications to files may be sent to listeners associated with services, applications, systems, etc. In this way, the services, applications, systems, etc. are informed when users make changes to certain files of the networked file system. As a non-limiting example, users of the networked file system may also be users of various services, such as software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), etc. Such services may employ a file-based configuration system in conjunction with the networked file system. When a configuration file is stored in the networked file system, the user may edit the file as if it were a local file resident on the client of the user. The update to the file is propagated to the networked file system, which then sends a notification of the change to the service that is being configured. The service may then read the file, execute the configuration change, and\/or perform other functionality in response to the file modification. In this way, the user may avoid using a browser-based configuration interface, a command-line interface, an application programming interface (API), or other unwieldy types of interfaces to update the service configuration. In the following discussion, first a description of the physical nature of the various components is provided, followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.","With reference to , shown is a networked environment  according to various embodiments. The networked environment  includes one or more computing devices , one or more computing devices , and one or more clients  in data communication by way of a network . The network  includes, for example, the Internet, intranets, extranets, wide area networks (WANs), local area networks (LANs), wired networks, wireless networks, or other suitable networks, etc., or any combination of two or more such networks.","The computing device  may comprise, for example, a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively, a plurality of computing devices  may be employed that are arranged, for example, in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example, a plurality of computing devices  together may comprise a cloud computing resource, a grid computing resource, and\/or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices  may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience, the computing device  is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device  is referred to in the singular, it is understood that a plurality of computing devices  may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.","Various applications and\/or other functionality may be executed in the computing device  according to various embodiments. Also, various data is stored in a data store  that is accessible to the computing device . The data store  may be representative of a plurality of data stores  as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store , for example, is associated with the operation of the various applications and\/or functional entities described below.","The components executed on the computing device , for example, include a networked storage system , a file modification notification service , and other applications, services, processes, systems, engines, or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The networked storage system  is executed to maintain a file hierarchy of files and folders in networked or metadata-based file systems for users. To this end, the networked storage system  may support various file-related operations such as, for example, creating files, deleting files, modifying files, setting permissions for files, downloading files, and\/or other operations. The networked storage system  may be configured to serve up data addressed by uniform resource locator (URL) via hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP). In one embodiment, the networked storage system  may be operated under a utility computing model. For example, each user may be assessed a fee for a certain quota of storage with the networked storage system .","A metadata service may be executed in association with or as part of the networked storage system  to maintain metadata items in association with files. To this end, such a metadata service may support various operations such as, for example, creating metadata items, deleting metadata items, retrieving metadata items, searching on metadata items, and\/or other operations. The metadata service may also implement one or more searchable indices of the metadata items. It is noted that the networked file system associated with each user storage account in the networked storage system  may be a metadata-based file system such as that described by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/036,539 entitled \u201cMETADATA-BASED FILE SYSTEM,\u201d which was filed on Feb. 28, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In a metadata-based file system, the metadata for a file may be organized separately from the data for the file. For example, the metadata and the data may be stored within distinct data stores or computing devices.","Various applications may be provided that correspond to hosted applications that may access the data stored in the networked file system. Such applications may, for example, have a web-based interface and may serve up network pages, such as web pages or other forms of network content, to facilitate user interaction. Other applications may be internal applications and may not have a web-based interface. Non-limiting examples of such applications may include a photo organizing tool, a music file organizer and playback tool, a word processor, a spreadsheet, an email application, and so on.","The file modification notification service  is executed to send file modification notifications  regarding changes to files in the networked storage system  to one or more listening services. Such services may be executed in the computing device  or on other devices in data communication with the computing device  by way of the network . As a non-limiting example, when a user updates a configuration file stored by the networked storage system , a file modification notification  is generated by the file modification notification service  and sent to the service that is configured by the configuration file.","The data stored in the data store  includes, for example, storage accounts . Associated with each storage account  are account settings , a primary identifier , and potentially other information. The primary identifier  may comprise, for example, an email address, a string of characters, or other type of identifier as will be described. Associated with each storage account  are one or more storage buckets  in which various files  are stored on the behalf of the user who holds the storage account  as will be described.","The storage account  may include information about a user with which the storage account  is associated. Such information may comprise, for example, name, address, payment instruments, and other information. The account settings  may be employed to specify and track various settings and other functionality with respect to a given storage account  such as passwords, security credentials, file management permissions, storage quotas and limitations, authorized access applications, billing information, and\/or other data. The account settings  may include third-party access permissions, e.g., permissions for services to access configuration files of a user that are stored by the networked storage system. The primary identifier  is an identifier associated with the holder of the respective storage account . Such a user may be deemed the primary holder of the account and can control its usage.","The data store  may also include listener configuration data  that configures the file modification notification service  to send file modification notifications  to one or more listening services. The listener configuration data  may specify certain filenames, file extensions, file paths, partial file paths, etc. for which file modification notifications  are to be sent. Further, the listener configuration data  may specify URLs or other interfaces by which the file modification notifications  are to be communicated to the listening services.","The computing device  may comprise, for example, a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively, a plurality of computing devices  may be employed that are arranged, for example, in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example, a plurality of computing devices  together may comprise a cloud computing resource, a grid computing resource, and\/or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices  may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience, the computing device  is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device  is referred to in the singular, it is understood that a plurality of computing devices  may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.","Various applications and\/or other functionality may be executed in the computing device  according to various embodiments. Also, various data may be stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The components executed on the computing device , for example, include one or more service providers , a storage client , a modification listener , and other applications, services, processes, systems, engines, or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The service provider  may correspond to an application associated with a SaaS system, a PaaS system, or any other application that may be configured to act upon files  edited by users. In various embodiments, the service provider  may generate and serve up network pages, such as web pages or other forms of network content, that are sent to the client .","A storage client  is provided for the service provider  to read and\/or write data to the networked storage system  over the network . The storage client  may be granted access to various user files  stored in the network storage system  as configured by the user. The modification listener  is executed to obtain and process file modification notifications  sent by the file modification notification service . In response to the file modification notification , the modification listener  may be configured to obtain one or more files  from the networked storage system  and trigger processing of the file(s)  by the service provider  and\/or other systems. In one embodiment, the modification listener  may be configured to send polling requests to the file modification notification service  to determine whether an update to a file  has occurred.","The client  is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client  may comprise, for example, a processor-based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant, a cellular telephone, set-top box, music players, web pads, tablet computer systems, game consoles, electronic book readers, smart phones, or other devices with like capability. The client  may include a display device  such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), or other type of display device as can be appreciated.","The client  may be configured to execute an operating system , a storage client , applications  such as email applications, instant message applications, browsers, word processors, spreadsheets, drawing applications, and\/or other applications, and one or more service clients . In one embodiment, the storage client  may correspond to client-side executable code provided in conjunction with a browser-based interface served up by the networked storage system . In another embodiment, the storage client  may correspond to code integrated with the operating system  to facilitate access to the networked storage system  through a file explorer or similar program. In yet another embodiment, the storage client  may correspond to a standalone program for managing the files  of the user in the networked storage system .","The service client  may correspond to a browser or another type of thin client that may provide a user interface for one or more service providers . As a non-limiting example, a service provider  may correspond to an office productivity suite offered as SaaS, which may include applications such as, for example, a word processor, spreadsheet, database, presentation manager, etc. To this end, the service provider  may generate one or more network pages as user interfaces, which are sent to the service client  and rendered for display by the display device .","Next, a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment  is provided. To begin, a user may configure a storage account  on the computing device . One or more storage buckets  may be assigned to the user with the primary identifier  of the user. Once a storage account  is configured, the user may begin storing files  on the networked storage system .","In one example, the user may upload a file  to the networked storage system  over the network  by way of a browser-based interface. In another example, the storage client  executed in the client  may be configured to make the networked storage system  appear to be a local storage device. In such an example, the user may simply store a file  on the networked storage system  as if it were any local storage device, and the storage client  handles the uploading in the background. In yet another example, the user may purchase a file  or otherwise generate a file  by way of an application executed in the computing device , and the application stores the file  in the storage bucket  for the user.","Once files  are available in the networked storage system , the user may begin reading the files and\/or modifying metadata that describes the files. In one example, the user may access the networked storage system  through a browser-based interface and download or modify files  through such an interface. In another example, the user may access the networked storage system  through the storage client  as if it were any locally accessible storage device. For instance, the operating system  may be configured to present the networked storage system  as if it were a mounted drive or file system in the client . The files  may be downloaded, organized by the user into directories, renamed, modified, and so on.","Because storage of the files  is maintained by the networked storage system , the files  may be associated with a service-level agreement of the operator of the computing device . Such a service-level agreement may comprise, for example, reliability, availability, and\/or other guarantees. Further, the files  may be accessed by diverse clients  of the user which may be on different portions of the network . For example, the clients  of the user may comprise a desktop computer connected to the network  through a home broadband connection, a laptop computer connected to the network  through a shared Wi-Fi connection at a public location, a smart phone connected to the network  through a cellular data network, and so on.","The performance of the networked storage system  may be enhanced through the use of a device that offers network-attached storage to clients  connected through a local network. Such a network-attached storage system may support faster access by the client  than the networked storage system . In addition, such a network attached storage system may support more storage for the user than the networked storage system . The networked storage system  may also be supplemented by local storage of cached data in the client  in some embodiments. Various techniques relating to the use of local storage on the client  are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/074,325 entitled \u201cLOCAL STORAGE LINKED TO NETWORKED STORAGE SYSTEM,\u201d which was filed on Mar. 29, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The user may specify various configuration parameters in the listener configuration data  for service providers  that are to have access to file modification notifications  regarding certain files  stored in the networked storage system . As a non-limiting example, the user may specify that all changes to any file  having a filename ending with \u201c.config\u201d are to be forwarded as file modification notifications  to a particular service provider . As another non-limiting example, the user may specify that the creation of any new file  or changes to any existing file  within the directory \u201c\/database_manager\/etc\u201d are to be forwarded as file modification notifications  to a service provider  corresponding to a \u201cDatabase Manager\u201d application offered as SaaS.","The various types of file modification notifications  that are to be forwarded to a service provider  may also be specified in the listener configuration data . Creation of new files , modification of existing files , deletion of existing files , and\/or other events may trigger different file modification notifications  that may or may not be forwarded to the modification listeners  of the respective service providers  based at least in part on configuration settings in the listener configuration data . As a non-limiting example, a user may configure the creation of any file  named \u201ccore\u201d to trigger a file modification notification  to be sent to a modification listener  associated with a software debugging service. As another non-limiting example, a user may configure the modification of a file  named \u201cphoto-editor.xml\u201d to trigger a file modification notification  to be sent to a modification listener  associated with a photo editor service.","In addition to specifying notification settings, the user may establish access parameters for the service providers  in the account settings . For example, the user may establish usernames, passwords, keys, and\/or other security credentials for the service providers  to use in obtaining files  of the user. The user may grant and\/or deny access for a service provider  to various files  and\/or file paths within the networked storage system . Once configuration settings in the data store  are properly configured, the modification listener(s)  corresponding to the various service providers  may register with the file modification notification service . Authentication may be performed using OAuth or other authentication libraries.","When the user initiates a change to a monitored file , or creates a file  that is monitored, the updated data is sent over the network  by the storage client  to the networked storage system . It is noted that it may appear to the user that the file  is local to the client , even though the file system to which the file  is saved is in fact maintained across the network , which may include the Internet. In one embodiment, the networked storage system  may be authoritative, and the change may not be regarded as finalized until acknowledged as committed by the networked storage system . In another embodiment, the storage client  or a caching device such as a network-attached storage device may be considered authoritative.","When the change to the file  is committed by the networked storage system , the file modification notification service  determines the modification listener(s)  that are associated with the file . Alternatively, the file modification notification service  may determine modification listener(s)  associated with the file  in response to obtaining a polling request from the modification listener(s)  over the network . In one embodiment, the modification listener(s)  are configured to send polling requests when their respective service providers  are prepared to process updates to the file . If there are modification listeners  associated with the file  that have permission to receive modification notifications, the file modification notification service  generates a file modification notification  and sends it across the network  to the appropriate modification listener(s) . The modification listeners  process the file modification notification  and may trigger the respective service providers  to obtain the modified files  from the networked storage system  using the storage client .","The file modification notification  may include a starting offset or other indicator of where in the file  a change has occurred. In one embodiment, if the change occurs near the end of the file , the service provider  and the storage client  may be configured to obtain only a portion of the file  that may be affected by the change. In an alternative embodiment, the file  or the changed portion of the file  may be sent within, or otherwise in association with, the file modification notification  so that the storage client  and the service provider  do not have to affirmatively request the file  or the changed portion thereof.","Once the service provider  obtains the updated file  from the networked storage system  by way of the network , the service provider  may initiate some processing based at least in part upon the file . For example, the service provider  may modify an entire SaaS stack based at least in part upon the file  being persisted in the networked storage system . The service provider  may reload one or more configuration parameters or take other actions based upon the changed contents of the file .","Depending on the configuration parameters of the networked storage system , write locks may be acquired by a client  to prevent other clients  from updating a file  at the same time. Alternatively, the networked storage system  may be configured to commit new versions of a file  in the order that they are received by the networked storage system . In one embodiment, the storage buckets  employed by the networked storage system  to store the files  may correspond to eventually consistent data storage, where a read operation following a write operation may not obtain the written data.","In such a system, the file modification notification service  may be configured not to generate a file modification notification  until the file  is consistent, in order to ensure that the storage client  and\/or the modification listener  obtain the latest data. Alternatively, the written data may be intercepted prior to storage in the storage bucket  and sent as part of the file modification notification  or otherwise cached. Consequently, the eventual consistency of the storage bucket  does not affect what data is obtained by the storage client  and\/or the modification listener.","Referring next to , shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of portions of the networked storage system  and the file modification notification service  according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portions of the networked storage system  and the file modification notification service  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device  () according to one or more embodiments.","Beginning with box , the networked storage system  obtains a request to update a file  () from a storage client  () executed in a client  (). In box , the networked storage system  determines whether the storage bucket  () corresponding to the file  is stored using eventually consistent storage. If the storage bucket  is stored using eventually consistent storage, the networked storage system  stores the updated file  in a cache. The networked storage system  continues to box . If the storage bucket  is not stored using eventually consistent storage (e.g., if the storage bucket  is stored using consistent storage), the networked storage system  proceeds from box  to box .","In box , the networked storage system  stores the updated file  in the corresponding storage bucket . In box , the file modification notification service  determines whether there are any modification listeners  () associated with the file . In various embodiments, metadata that is associated with the file  may indicate an association with one or more modification listeners . For example, the file name, file extension, or file path of the file  may be mapped to one or more modification listeners . The mapping may be performed on a partial match, e.g., using wildcards, etc.","If one or more modification listeners  are associated with the file , the file modification notification service  moves to box  and notifies each of the modification listeners  of the update to the file  by sending a file modification notification  () over the network  () to the respective computing device  (). In box , the networked storage system  sends the updated file  to each of the modification listeners  or their associated applications  (). If the update affects only portion(s) of the file , the affected portion(s) may be transmitted in place of the entire file  in some circumstances.","In one embodiment, the updated file  may be included within the file modification notification . In another embodiment, the application  and\/or the modification listener  may be configured to request the updated file  from the networked storage system . After the updated file  is sent to each associated modification listener , the portions of the networked storage system  and the file modification notification service  end. If the file modification notification service  instead determines in box  that there are no associated modification listeners  for the file , the portions of the networked storage system  and the file modification notification service  also end.","Turning now to , shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the service provider  according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of  provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the service provider  as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of  may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device  () according to one or more embodiments.","Beginning with box , the service provider  registers one or more modification listeners  () with the file modification notification service  (), which associates one or more files  () with the modification listeners . In box , the service provider  obtains a file modification notification  () from the modification listener . In box , the service provider  determines whether the file modification notification  is to be disregarded. As a non-limiting example, the modification may concern a file  that is not currently in use by the service provider , which may allow updates to the file  to be disregarded by the service provider .","If the service provider  determines that the file modification notification  is not to be disregarded, the service provider  moves to box  and obtains the file  from the networked storage system  (). In one embodiment, the file  or portions thereof may be contained within the file modification notification . In box , the service provider  may process the file . For example, the service provider  may update a configuration based at least in part on changed contents of the file . The service provider  proceeds to box . If the service provider  instead determines in box  that the file modification notification  may be disregarded, the service provider  also moves to box .","In box , the service provider  determines whether another file modification notification  is to be obtained. If another file modification notification  is to be obtained, the service provider  returns to box  and obtains the next file modification notification . Otherwise, the portion of the service provider  ends.","With reference to , shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device  according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device  includes at least one processor circuit, for example, having a processor  and a memory , both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end, the computing device  may comprise, for example, at least one server computer or like device. The local interface  may comprise, for example, a data bus with an accompanying address\/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.","Stored in the memory  are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular, stored in the memory  and executable by the processor  are the networked storage system , the file modification notification service , and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory  may be a data store  and other data. In addition, an operating system may be stored in the memory  and executable by the processor .","It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processor  as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software, any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as, for example, C, C++, C#, Objective C, Java\u00ae, JavaScript\u00ae, Perl, PHP, Visual Basic\u00ae, Python\u00ae, Ruby, Delphi\u00ae, Flash\u00ae, or other programming languages.","A number of software components are stored in the memory  and are executable by the processor . In this respect, the term \u201cexecutable\u201d means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be, for example, a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and run by the processor , source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory  and executed by the processor , or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory  to be executed by the processor , etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory  including, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard drive, solid-state drive, USB flash drive, memory card, optical disc such as compact disc (CD) or digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, magnetic tape, or other memory components.","The memory  is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus, the memory  may comprise, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard disk drives, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, memory cards accessed via a memory card reader, floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive, optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive, magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive, and\/or other memory components, or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition, the RAM may comprise, for example, static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM) and other such devices. The ROM may comprise, for example, a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other like memory device.","Also, the processor  may represent multiple processors  and the memory  may represent multiple memories  that operate in parallel processing circuits, respectively. In such a case, the local interface  may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors , between any processor  and any of the memories , or between any two of the memories , etc. The local interface  may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication, including, for example, performing load balancing. The processor  may be of electrical or of some other available construction.","Although the networked storage system , the file modification notification service , the storage client  (), storage client  (), the service provider  (), and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above, as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software\/general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware, each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include, but are not limited to, discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals, application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates, or other components, etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and, consequently, are not described in detail herein.","The flowcharts of  show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the networked storage system , the file modification notification service , and the service provider . If embodied in software, each block may represent a module, segment, or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function(s). The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human-readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor  in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code, etc. If embodied in hardware, each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function(s).","Although the flowcharts of  show a specific order of execution, it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example, the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also, two or more blocks shown in succession in  may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further, in some embodiments, one or more of the blocks shown in  may be skipped or omitted. In addition, any number of counters, state variables, warning semaphores, or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein, for purposes of enhanced utility, accounting, performance measurement, or providing troubleshooting aids, etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.","Also, any logic or application described herein, including the networked storage system , the file modification notification service , the storage client , storage client , and the service provider , that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non-transitory computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as, for example, a processor  in a computer system or other system. In this sense, the logic may comprise, for example, statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer-readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any medium that can contain, store, or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer-readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as, for example, magnetic, optical, or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer-readable medium would include, but are not limited to, magnetic tapes, magnetic floppy diskettes, magnetic hard drives, memory cards, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, or optical discs. Also, the computer-readable medium may be a random access memory (RAM) including, for example, static random access memory (SRAM) and dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM). In addition, the computer-readable medium may be a read-only memory (ROM), a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), or other type of memory device.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiment(s) without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
