---
title: Managing attributes associated with an application server
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for maintaining attributes associated with application servers. In particular, a system administrator can register a set of services associated with an application server. Before initiating, a service can need to be configured with a set of attributes. According to embodiments, a vault service associated with the application can validate a service requesting to be configured. Further, an attribute management tool can store attributes, such as passwords and other sensitive data, associated with the requesting service. Upon a successful validation, the attribute management tool can provide the associated attributes to the vault service, which uses the attributes to configure the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799439&OS=08799439&RS=08799439
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08799439
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110817
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention relates generally to systems and methods for configuring application servers, and more particularly, to platforms and techniques for managing attributes associated with application servers.","Application servers are entities in system and network environments in which various applications or services can execute or operate. In particular, application servers are dedicated to the efficient execution of processes, procedures, routines, scripts, and software code for supporting the functionalities of applications and services. Software developers can access application servers via various application programming interfaces (APIs).","The Java Platform, Enterprise Edition, Java EE, or J2EE are widely used platforms for server programming in the Java programming language. A J2EE container is a runtime entity that provides services to specialized Java components. Services provided by a container typically include life cycle management, security, deployment, and component-specific services. Containers are used in a wide variety of Java components, such as Enterprise Javabeans (EJB), Web pages, Java Server Pages (JSP), servlets, applets, and application clients.","During operation of a Java EE application server, various services or applications associated with the services may need to be configured by a system administrator or other entity. The configuration can include attributes or properties that, themselves, need to be configured by the system administrator. However, some of the attributes or properties can be sensitive in nature and may need to be securely protected. Therefore, it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for securing attributes. In particular, it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for managing access to attributes associated with the operation of an application server.","Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for configuring services of application servers in a network. In particular, embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for establishing a vault or database to secure and\/or manage attributes associated with application servers. An attribute management tool or similar logic or resources can be configured to connect to a set of application servers. In embodiments, the set of application servers can each be configured with a set of services and a set of applications.","Further, each of the set of application servers can be configured with a vault service than can run or execute in each of the set of application servers. The vault service can interface with or otherwise connect to the attribute management tool. In particular, other services of the application servers can request attributes via the vault service. The vault service can connect to the attribute management tool, which can retrieve the applicable attribute(s) and provide the attribute(s) to the vault service, which can provide the attribute(s) to the requesting service.","Referring to , illustrated is an exemplary environment  in which the present systems and methods may be implemented. As shown in , the environment  can comprise a client , a web server , an application server , a directory server , and a provisioning server . These components can be coupled together via networks  and , respectively, or other networks. It should be appreciated that other configurations and inclusions of other components are envisioned in accordance with the present systems and methods.","In embodiments, the client  can be any computer system that utilizes the services of another computer system, i.e., the web server  and the application server . As shown in , the client  can be implemented using components well known to those skilled in the art, such as a personal computer, laptop computer, personal digital assistant, mobile phone, tablet device, and the like. In the embodiments as shown in , the client  can be used to run Web applications via an application, such as a web browser.","In embodiments, the web server  can be a computer system configured to accept requests from clients, such as the client , and serve responses along with optional data contents. For example, a user of the client  can execute a Web application via the web server . In the embodiment as shown, the data content served by the web server  can be one or more Web pages that can include hypertext markup language (HTML) documents and linked objects such as, for example, images, video, audio, and the like.","The web server  can be implemented on a machine that comprises well known hardware and software. Well known software for the web server  can include, but is not limited to, software such as Apache HTTP Server from the Apache Software Foundation, Internet Information Services by Microsoft Corporation\u00ae, and Sun Java System Web Server from Sun Microsystems Inc\u00ae. One skilled in the art will recognize that any of the many different Web server programs available are consistent with the principles of the present invention.","The application server  can be software that provides applications to the client . In particular, the application server  can be configured to handle security, business logic, and data access for the applications provided to the client . In embodiments, the application server  can be configured to provide a variety of Web-based applications, such as e-commerce applications, content management applications, customer relations management applications, and the like.","The application server  can be implemented on various software platforms. For example, the application server  can be implemented on the well known J2EE platform from Sun Microsystems Inc\u00ae. In addition, the application server  can comprise middleware configured to enable applications to intercommunicate with dependent applications, such as the web server , database management systems, etc.","In further embodiments, the application server  can be implemented using well known software. For example, the application server  can be implemented using software, such WebLogic server from BEA Systems Inc.\u00ae, JBoss from Red Hat Inc.\u00ae, Websphere from the IBM Corporation\u00ae, and the like. Accordingly, the application server  can implement the Java programming language and provide Web modules using servlets and JavaServer pages. Other functions of the application server  can also employ Java. For example, business logic provided by the application server  can be built into Enterprise JavaBeans (EJBs). J2EE can provide standards for containing the Web components. In addition, security services, such as authentication and authorization, can be implemented using the Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS) or similar service.","The directory server  can represent the components that store and organize information about the users of the system  and an administrator of the system  to manage those users' access to the resources of the system . In embodiments, the directory server  can comprise a database (not shown) that can store information about named objects that are managed. The directory server  can also provide the access interface to the data that is contained in this database. The directory server  can be implemented using well known technologies. For example, the directory server  can be implemented as an X.509 directory service or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) service. In embodiments, the directory server  can be implemented as services from various vendors such as, for example, Red Hat Directory Server from Red Hat Inc.\u00ae; Active Directory by the Microsoft Corporation\u00ae; Apache Directory Server by the Apache Software Foundation; and Sun Java System Directory Server by Sun Microsystems Inc\u00ae.","In embodiments, the provisioning server  can be software, hardware, or a combination thereof that can be configured to listen for provisioning requests in the system  and return provisioning responses. In some embodiments, the provisioning server  can be configured as a service provisioning markup language (SPML) provisioning service provider. The provisioning server  can be implemented as a separate software component of the system  or can be integrated with other components of the system . For example, the provisioning server  can be a component that is installed as part of the directory server .","In embodiments, the network  can represent the communications infrastructure for allowing the client  and the web server  to communicate with each other. For example, the network  can represent the Internet, which is a worldwide, publicly accessible network that uses the Internet Protocol (IP) suite of standards. In embodiments, the network  can represent the communications infrastructure that allows the web server , the application server , the directory server , and the provisioning server  to communicate with each other. In embodiments, the network  can be implemented as a local area network or may utilize one or more larger networks, such as the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200"]},"As shown in , the environment  can comprise an application server , such as the application server  as described in reference to . In embodiments, the application server  can be a JBoss application server, or other types of application servers. Further, as shown in , the application server  can comprise a set of services . For example, the services can be Enterprise JavaBean (EJB) container services, web container services, security services, web application services, Java Connector Architecture (JCA) services, and other services. In embodiments, each of the set of services  can comprise and\/or execute a set of applications. Further, in embodiments, the set of applications can be those that the set of services  can serve to a client. In particular, the set of services  in conjunction with the set of applications can be configured to handle security, business logic, and data access for one or more clients or customers. In embodiments, the set of applications can be Web-based applications, such as e-commerce applications, content management applications, customer relations management applications, and the like.","As shown in , the environment  can comprise a set of clients . In embodiments, the set of clients  can be configured to connect to the application server  via any type of network or data connection. Further, the set of clients  can be implemented using components well known to those skilled in the art, such as a personal computer, laptop computer, personal digital assistant, mobile phone, tablet device, and the like. Still further, the set of clients  be be accessed by any user, administrator, owner, or other individual or entity. According to embodiments, the application server  can be configured to serve the any of the set of services  and any corresponding applications to the set of clients . For example, the application server  can be configured to serve an email application to the set of clients .","As shown in , the application server  can be configured to interface with a system administrator . In embodiments, the system administrator  can be any user, owner, administrator, or other entity, or any combination of hardware and software that can be configured to perform the functions as discussed herein. Further, in embodiments, the system administrator  can be configured to connect to the application server  via any direct connection or any data communication network. According to embodiments, one or more of the set of services  may need to be configured in order to initiate and\/or execute. In particular, the system administrator  can process, initiate, and\/or otherwise configure attributes, properties, or other types of data in order to configure the set of services . In embodiments, the attributes can comprise passwords or other sensitive data that can be needed to configure the set of services .","The application server  can further comprise a vault service  that can be configured to interface with the set of services . According to embodiments, each of the set of services  can request configuration attributes or properties via the vault service . As shown in , the environment  can further comprise an attribute management tool  that can interface with the application server  via, for example, a network , as well as the system administrator . In embodiments, the network  can be any wired or wireless data network such as the Internet or other public, private, and secure networks. Although not shown in , the attribute management tool  can be configured to connect to and process configuration functions of multiple application servers.","As shown in , the attribute management tool  can comprise a processing module  and a database . The processing module  can be configured to perform or otherwise execute the functions of the attribute management tool , and the database  can be configured to store any attributes associated with the application server , the components thereof, and other resources. For example, if a web container service of the application server  needs to be configured, then the processing module  can facilitate the retrieval of any attributes associated with the configuration from the database . It should be appreciated that the processing module  and the database  can perform other functions in accordance with embodiments as described herein.","The database  can be configured to store a set of attributes , and other data. In embodiments, the attributes  can be any type of specification that can define a property of an element, object, file, or other type of data associated with the set of services  and\/or the application server . In embodiments, the set of attributes  can refer to or set a specific value for a given instance of the set of services  and\/or the application server . In further embodiments, the set of attributes  can be related to a configuration of any of the set of services . For example, in an operation of an email service, the attributes can be one or more of email address, usernames, passwords, settings, connection configurations, or any other related data.","In embodiments, the system administrator  can be configured to execute a token module  that, in embodiments, can be online or offline. In embodiments, the token module  can be provided by the attribute management tool , and can be a part of the system administrator  (as shown in ), the attribute management tool , the application server , or other entities or components. The token module  can be configured to generate, access, or distribute shared tokens associated with each of the set of services . In embodiments, the token module  can be configured to register any of the set of services  with the application server . When a service is registered with the application server , the token module  can be configured to generate a shared token for the registered service. Further, the token module  can be configured to provide the shared token to the registered service, to the attribute management tool  for storage in the database , and\/or to the vault service . Further, the token module  can be configured to retrieve existing shared tokens from any of the entities of the environment .","According to embodiments, the system administrator  can configure each of the set of services  using attributes associated with the attribute management tool . In embodiments, the attributes can be sensitive data such as passwords, or other attributes. Further, in embodiments, the set of services  can initiate a self-configuration. For the services that need access to the attributes of the attribute management tool , the services can be configured to provide their associated shared token to the vault service . In embodiments, the vault service  can be configured to validate the shared token of the service. For example, the vault service  can compare the shared token received from the service to an existing, stored token associated with the service. If the tokens match, then the vault service  can validate the shared token received from the service. In embodiments, if the vault service  does not validate the shared token, then the vault service  can be configured to provide a notification to the requesting service, the system administrator , and\/or other entities. It should be appreciated that the notification can be provided to the entities as any type of communication via any type of data transport network or connection.","If the vault service  validates the shared token of the requesting service, then the vault service  can be configured to interface with the attribute management tool  to retrieve attributes necessary to configure the requesting service. In embodiments, the processing module  can receive a request from the vault service  to retrieve specific attributes from the set of attributes . For example, the processing module  can retrieve passwords necessary for the configuration of a security service. In other embodiments, the vault service  can be configured to provide the shared token to the processing module , which can validate the shared token and retrieve necessary attributes upon a successful validation.","In embodiments, the processing module  can be configured to provide the retrieved attributes to the vault service , the system administrator , and\/or the requesting service. In embodiments, the vault service  can receive the attributes from the processing module , and provide the received attributes to the requesting service. Once the requesting service and\/or entities receive the attributes, the attributes can be used to configure the requesting service. For example, the vault service  can use the received attributes to configure the requesting service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["220","309","220","210"]},"In embodiments as shown, the attribute management tool  can comprise a processor  communicating with memory , such as electronic random access memory, operating under control of or in conjunction with an operating system . The operating system  can be, for example, a distribution of the Linux\u2122 operating system, the Unix\u2122 operating system, or other open-source or proprietary operating system or platform. The processor  can also communicate with a database , such as a database stored on a local hard drive, and a set of applications , to execute control logic and control the operation of the resources as described herein. The processor  can further communicate with a network interface , such as an Ethernet or wireless data connection, which in turn communicates with the one or more networks , such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Other configurations of the attribute management tool , associated network connections, and other hardware, software, and service resources are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404","406"]},"In , a request to configure a service of the set of services can be received, wherein the request comprises an associated token from the set of tokens. In embodiments, the request can be received from the service, the system administrator, or other entities. In , the associated token can be attempted to be validated. In embodiments, a vault service of the application server can attempt to validate the associated token. In , the processing can determine whether the associated token is validated. If the associated token is not validated, then processing can proceed to  in which an administrator can be notified of the unsuccessful validation.","In contrast, if the associated token is validated, then processing can proceed to  in which a set of attributes can be requested from an attribute management tool. In embodiments, the attribute management tool can be remote from the application server, and the set of attributes can be requested by the vault service. In , the set of attributes can be received from the attribute management tool. In embodiments, the attribute management tool can retrieve the set of attributes from an associated database. In , the service can be configured using the set of attributes. In embodiments, the set of attributes can be passwords and other sensitive data. In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","The foregoing description is illustrative, and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example, while embodiments have been described in which the attribute management tool , and other entities, resides in a single server or platform, in embodiments the attribute management tool , and other entities and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers, services, or systems. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed, and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
