---
title: Cloud service authentication
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for obtaining access to a cloud service. In particular, a user may log into a client device using an operating system (OS) cloud login ID. The user may access cloud services (e.g., a music streaming service, a data storage service, etc.) through applications executing on the client device using merely the OS cloud login ID without providing additional login credentials specific to the cloud services. A client side application may request a token to access a cloud service. The token may be generated by an identity provider based upon the identity provider verifying an application ID identifying the application, a cloud service ID identifying the cloud service and/or OS cloud credentials. In this way, the application may present the token to a cloud service provider for verification to gain access to the cloud service hosted by the cloud service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418216&OS=09418216&RS=09418216
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09418216
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110721
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Today, many data service providers utilize a cloud computing model that may allow users to consume and\/or interact with cloud services over the internet. A user may access such cloud services though applications hosted on a client device, such as a laptop, tablet computer, smart phone, etc. In one example, a user may stream movies from an online movie subscription service using a locally hosted movie player application. In another example, a user may play video games from an online game streaming service using a locally hosted game player application. In other examples, users may read emails, store files, interact with social networks and\/or consume a plethora of other services from cloud service providers. Unfortunately, a user may have separate and\/or unique account information, such as login ID and password, for various cloud service providers (e.g., a user may have a movie login for a movie service provider, a photo login for a photo service provider, etc.). For example, a user may have hundreds of different accounts for which respective login or authentication information may be required, which may be cumbersome for the user to maintain. In this way, a user may have to separately login to various cloud service providers within a single computing session. For example, a user may log into a personal computer with an operating system login. Next, the user may check an email account by inputting an email login into an email service, upload photos by inputting a photo login to a photo service, listen to music by inputting a music login to a music service, etc. Within the same computing session, the user may have to login ten or more times to access various data and\/or services. Thus, the user may be burdened with memorizing and\/or inputting multiple distinct logins to access cloud services. Additionally, when providing cloud services to client applications, cloud service providers may be susceptible to unauthorized applications hosted on the client device. In one example, an unauthorized application may attempt to impersonate an authorized application in order to consume data and\/or services from a cloud service provider that the unauthorized application may not have authority to access.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Among other things, one or more systems and\/or techniques for providing access to a cloud service and\/or for obtaining access to a cloud service are disclosed herein. It may be appreciated that a cloud service provider may, among other things, be a service provider that provides cloud services, such as data and\/or services, over the internet to a client device. In particular, the client device may comprise an operating system that may host one or more applications configured to access cloud services hosted by cloud service providers (e.g., a user may access movies from a movie service provider over the internet using a movie player application hosted by a mobile operating system of a client smart phone). Accordingly, a request from an application hosted by an operating system (OS) to access a cloud service may be received (e.g., an operating system of a client device may receive the request from the application, such as a movie player application executing within the operating system).","In may be appreciated that the cloud service may be associated with a cloud service ID identifying the cloud service, which may be specified within the request from the application. It may be appreciated that the application may be associated with an application ID that may be used to verify the genuineness of the application, which may deter an application from impersonating another application (e.g., the operating system may inhibit a non-genuine application from modifying a first application ID assigned to the non-genuine application to a second application ID assigned to a genuine application). Accordingly, the application may be unable to modify the application ID, and thus the application ID may securely identify the genuineness of the application. It may be appreciated that a user may have logged into the operating system using an OS cloud login ID that may allow the user to access various cloud services without having to submit separate login credentials specific to the respective cloud services (e.g., the OS cloud login may associate the user with a plurality of cloud services from various cloud service providers).","A token request may be sent to an identity provider based upon the request from the application (e.g., the operating system may receive the request from the application, and may create and\/or send the token request to a cloud based verification service). The token request may comprise the application ID identifying the application, the cloud service ID associated with the cloud service and\/or OS cloud credentials associated with login credentials of the user for the operating system. It may be appreciated that in one example, the OS cloud credentials may correspond to a cloud login ID and\/or additional authentication information (e.g., additional authentication information provided by the operating system to the user based upon the user successfully authenticating with the operating system on the user's device using the OS cloud login ID). This may, for example, make it difficult, if not impossible, for someone to use a user's (stolen) user name and password, for example, to consume information on a different device and\/or via a different operating system. That is, even though a somewhat successful login may be accomplished using the user's (stolen) user name and password, for example, the additional (OS related) authentication information would not be provided because the login would occur on a different operating system and\/or device, for example. The identity provider may be configured to create a token based upon the token request. In one example, the identity provider may create the token based upon determining the application is authorized to access the cloud service based upon the application ID. In another example, the identity provider may compute a user assigned ID (e.g., an identifier for the user) based upon the cloud service ID and a user identification associating the user with the identity provider (e.g., the assigned ID may be derived from the user identification uniquely for an application). The token may comprise the application ID, the cloud service ID and\/or the user assigned ID. The identity provider may sign the token with an identity provider signature. It may be appreciated that the identity provider signature may be used to verify that the token originated from the identity provider, as opposed to a malicious source (e.g., the identity provider signature may confirm that the token was not generated and\/or modified by an entity other than the identity provider). Additionally, in one example, the identity provider may encrypt the token (e.g., the identity provider may encrypt the token using an encryption key corresponding to a decryption key held by the cloud service provider of the cloud service).","In this way, the token may be received from the identity provider based upon the identity provider verifying the token request. The token may be provided to the application for submission to the cloud service provider for access to the cloud service. The token may be submitted to the cloud service provider, which may provide the application with access to the cloud service based upon verifying the token. In one example, the cloud service provider may validate the identity provider signature as a signature of the identity provider, which may verify that a malicious source did not create the token. In another example, the cloud service provider may determine whether the application is authorized to access the cloud service based upon the application ID (e.g., a non-genuine bank application may be denied access to a banking service based upon a banking service provider determining an application ID of the non-genuine bank application does not identify the non-genuine bank application as an approved and\/or genuine banking application). In another example, the cloud service provider may provide the application with access to data associated with a user account of a user identified by the user assigned ID (e.g., a real bank application may be provided with banking data associated with a bank account of the user identified by the user assigned ID).","It may be appreciated that the user may sign into the client device, such as the operating system, with a single OS cloud login ID. The OS cloud login ID may allow the user to access a plethora of cloud services without having to input additional login credentials specific to the cloud services. In this way, the user may consume cloud services through applications that successfully obtain tokens from the identity provider that are verifiable by the cloud service providers.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","Many client devices, such as smart phones and personal computers, host applications that may consume data and\/or services from cloud service providers based upon a cloud computing model. In one example, a social network application may allow a user to interact with social media provided by a social network service provider. In another example, a document application may allow a user to create, upload, edit and\/or share documents from a document service provider. Unfortunately, a user may have separate accounts for various cloud service providers. As such, the user may have a plurality of login identities for the respective cloud service providers (e.g., a photo service login, a social network login, etc.). In this way, the user may be burdened with managing a large number of login identities that may be separately inputted for the respective cloud services.","Additionally, the cloud computing model may leave cloud service providers susceptible to malicious applications hosted on client devices. For example, a non-genuine application may attempt to impersonate a genuine application to gain access to a cloud service provider. In this way, the non-genuine application may attempt to access unauthorized content and\/or cause other malicious damage to the cloud service provider.","Accordingly, one or more systems and\/or techniques for providing access to a cloud service and\/or for obtaining access to a cloud service are provided herein. In particular, a user may log into a client device, such as an operating system (OS), using an OS cloud login ID. The OS cloud login ID may be a universal cloud identifier that may allow the user to access various cloud services (e.g., a movie service provided by a movie company, a photo service provided by a photo company and\/or a plethora of other services provided by different entities) without providing login credentials specific to the respective cloud services. A request from an application to access a cloud service identified by a cloud service ID may be received from the application. A token request comprising an application ID identifying the application, the cloud service ID and\/or OS cloud credentials (e.g., authentication information and\/or calls corresponding to the OS cloud login ID) may be sent to an identity provider (e.g., a cloud based verification service) based upon the request from the application. The identity provider may verify the token request. For example, the identity provider may verify that the application has authority to access the cloud service based upon the application ID. The identity provider may compute a user assigned ID, which may be used as a user identifier, based upon the cloud service ID and a user identification associating the user with the identity provider (e.g., the user assigned ID may comprise an identifier for the user derived from the user identification unique to the application). In one example, the user assigned ID may comprise a user pairwise ID (e.g., a user pairwise ID computed from a pairwise function using a cloud service ID and\/or a user identification). It may be appreciated that in one example, user authentication may be performed to allow the user assigned ID to be computed (e.g., a SmartCode, a code sent by phone, a code sent by email, biometrics, username\/password, and\/or a variety of other authentication techniques). In this way, the identity provider may create a token comprising the user assigned ID, the cloud service ID and\/or the application ID. The token may be signed with an identity provider signature.","The token may be used by the application to access the cloud service hosted by a cloud service provider. The cloud service provider may verify the identity provider signature, verify the application ID and\/or provide the application with access to data associated with a user account of the user identified by the user assigned ID. In this way, the user may utilize applications having verifiable tokens to consume data and\/or services from various cloud service providers based upon the OS cloud login ID without providing additional login credentials specific to the cloud service providers.","One embodiment of providing access to a cloud service is illustrated by an exemplary method  in . At , the method starts. At , a request may be received from an application hosted by an operating system to access a cloud service. The cloud service may be identified by a cloud service ID. It may be appreciated that a user of the application may have logged into the operating system using an OS cloud login ID (e.g., a universal login associated with a plurality of cloud services and\/or cloud service providers). The OS cloud login ID may allow the user to access a plurality of cloud service providers without additional login information specific to the various cloud service providers.","To inhibit impersonation and\/or facilitate trust in applications, application IDs may be securely assigned to applications (e.g., an application ID may be a unique identifier assigned to an application based upon an operating system application programming model that may have been complied when the application was developed for the operating system). An application ID of an application may be tamper resistant, and thus may be relied upon when determining whether an application is who the application alleges it is (e.g., a malicious application may be unable to modify an application ID assigned to the malicious application, such that the malicious application may be unable to impersonate an application ID of a genuine application). In this way, the application requesting access to the cloud service may be trusted as being an application associated with the application ID assigned to the application.","At , a token request may be sent to an identity provider (e.g., a cloud based verification service). The token request may comprise the application ID identifying the application, the cloud service ID associated with the cloud service and\/or the OS cloud credentials associated with login credentials of the user for the operating system.","At , a token may be received from the identity provider based upon the identity provider verifying the token request. The token may be signed with an identity provider signature by the identity provider.","In one example of receiving the token, the identity provider may have verified the token request by determining that the application is authorized to access the cloud service based upon the application ID (e.g., a table identifying which applications may access what cloud services may be queried using the application ID). In one example, if the application is authorized to access the cloud service, then the identity provider may create the token. In another example, if a relationship between the application and the cloud service is unknown, then the identity provider may nevertheless create the token because the cloud service provider may still allow, deny or modify access to the cloud service based upon the application ID that may be specified within the token. That is, various applications may have relationships with cloud services that may not be known by the identity provider. Thus, instead of denying the application the token, the identity provider may provide the token to the application so that the cloud service may have control over whether the application may consume services from the cloud service. In another example, if the application is not authorized to access the cloud service, then the identity provider may deny the token request.","In another example of receiving the token, upon verifying the token request, the identify provider may have computed a user assigned ID identifying the user uniquely for the application (e.g., user pairwise ID). For example, the user assigned ID may be computed (e.g., a pairwise computation) based upon the cloud service ID and\/or a user identification associating the user with the identity provider (e.g., the user assigned ID may be derived from the user identification uniquely for the application).","The token may comprise the application ID, the cloud service ID and\/or the user assigned ID. At , the token may be provided to the application for submission to the cloud service provider for access to the cloud service. In one example, the application may obtain access to the cloud service based upon the cloud service provider validating the identity provider signature as a signature of the identity provider (e.g., the cloud service provider may verify the identity provider signature). In another example, the application may obtain access to the cloud service based upon the cloud service provider determining that the application is authorized to access the cloud service based upon the application ID (e.g., a music cloud service may determine whether a music player application has authorization to play music from the music cloud service based upon an application ID of the music player application). In another example, the application may obtain access to data associated with a user account of the user identified by the user assigned ID from the cloud service (e.g., the user may have an account with a music cloud service that allows the user to consume certain songs purchased by the user). In this way, the application may be provided with access to the data without requesting from the user additional login credentials specific to the cloud service. Accordingly, the user may consume the cloud service based upon merely inputting the OS cloud login ID. At , the method ends.","One embodiment of obtaining access to a cloud service is illustrated by an exemplary method  in . At , the method starts. At , a request for a token generated by an identity provider may be submitted (e.g., in response to receiving the request from an application, a token provider component may send a token request to an identity provider to generate the token). The requested token may correspond to a cloud service identified by a cloud service ID (e.g., the token may allow an application to consume data and\/or services from the cloud service). The request may be made to a token provider component and\/or an operating system (OS) by an application identified by an application ID. The operating system may have been logged into by a user using an OS cloud login ID. As such, the request may be associated with the application ID identifying an application within the operating system hosting the application, the cloud service ID associated with the cloud service and\/or OS cloud credentials associated with login credentials of the user for the operating system.","At , the token may be received. That is, the token may have been generated by the identity provider based upon the identity provider verifying a token request (e.g., a token request submitted by a component that received the request from the application). The identity provider may have generated the token based upon verifying the application ID, creating a user assigned ID (e.g., a user pairwise ID) from the cloud service ID and a user identification associating the user with the identity provider and\/or signing the token with an identity provider signature. It may be appreciated that in one example, the token and\/or the user assigned ID may be encrypted to keep the user assigned ID secret from third parties (e.g., the identity provider may encrypt the token using an encryption key corresponding to a decryption key held by the cloud service provider of the cloud service). Accordingly, the token may comprise the identity provider signature, the application ID, the cloud service ID and\/or the user assigned ID identifying the user.","The token may be submitted to the cloud service provider to obtain access to data associated with a user account of the user identified by the user assigned ID from the cloud service (e.g., a music player application may submit the token to a music service provider to access music owned by a user identified by the user assigned ID). Access to the cloud service may be granted based upon the cloud service provider validating the identity provider signature as a signature of the identity provider. In addition, the cloud service provider may determine whether the application is authorized to access the cloud service based upon the application ID. In this way, data from the cloud service may be obtained without the user having to submit additional login credentials specific to the cloud service. Instead, the user can access a plurality of cloud services from various cloud service providers merely based upon the OS cloud login ID. At , the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","310","320","310","306","304","302","322","306","302"]},"The token provider component  may send a token request  to an identity provider  for a token , which may be used by the movie application  to access the movie service hosted by the movie service provider , for example. The token request  may comprise the movie application ID, the movie service ID and\/or OS cloud credentials (e.g., authentication information and\/or calls corresponding to the OS cloud login ID). The identity provider  may verify the token request. In one example, the identity provider  may determine whether the movie application  is authorized to access the movie service provider  based upon the movie application ID. Additionally, the identity provider  may compute a user assigned ID identifying the user (e.g., a user pairwise ID computed from a pairwise function using a cloud service ID and\/or a user identification). In particular, the user assigned ID may be computed based upon the movie service ID and\/or a user identification associating the user with the identity provider . In this way, the identity provider may generate the token , which may comprise the user assigned ID identifying the user, the movie service ID identifying the movie service and\/or the movie application ID identifying the movie application . The identity provider  may sign the token  with an identity provider signature. In one example, the identity provider  may encrypt the token . The token provider component  may receive the token  from the identity provider . The token provider component may provide the token  to the movie application .","The cloud access component  may facilitate the submission of the token  to the movie service provider  to obtain access to the movie service for the movie application . For example, the movie application  may submit the token  through the cloud access component  to the movie service provider . The movie application  may obtain access to movie data  of the movie service based upon the movie service provider  verifying the token . In one example of verifying the token , the movie service provider  may validate the identity provider signature as a signature of the identity provider . In another example of verifying the token , the movie service provider  may determine whether the movie application  is authorized to access the movie service based upon the movie application ID. Upon verification of the token , the movie service provider  may provide access to the movie data  that is associated with a movie user account of the user identified by the user assigned ID (e.g., a movie account of the user with the movie service may have access to particular movies purchased by the user). In this way, the movie application  may consume movie data  from the movie service provider  using the token  without requesting login credentials specific to the movie service provider . It may be appreciated that where the token  is signed by the identity provider , the movie service provider  (or other relevant cloud service provider) may verify the signature, thus confirming that the token originated from the identity provider and\/or that another entity did not modify the token.","It may be appreciated that in one example, one or more cloud access components may be implemented. For example, the movie application  may define a first cloud access component configured to facilitate access to the movie service provider , a second application may define a second cloud access component configured to facilitate access to a second service provider, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","402","408","416","424","432","412","420","428","404","406","408","408","412","416","416","420","408","416","424","432","408","416","424","432"]},"In one example, the movie application  may request a movie token  from the token provider component  to access a movie service identified by a movie service ID. The token provider component  may submit a token request to the identity provider. The token request may comprise a movie application ID identifying the movie application , the movie service ID identifying the movie service and\/or OS cloud credentials. The identity provider may generate, sign and\/or encrypt the movie token  based upon verifying that the movie application  is authorized to access the movie service. The movie token  may comprise the movie application ID, the movie service ID and\/or a user assigned ID identifying the user. In this way, the token provider component  may provide the movie token  to the movie application , which may submit the movie token  to the movie service provider  through the cloud access component . Upon verifying the movie token  (e.g., verifying an identity provider signature and\/or the movie application ID), the movie service provider  may allow the movie application  to consume movie data  associated with a user movie account of the user identified by the user assigned ID without requiring login credentials specific to the movie service.","In another example, the music application  may request a music token  from the token provider component  to access a music service identified by a music service ID. The token provider component  may submit a token request to the identity provider. The token request may comprise a music application ID identifying the music application , the music service ID identifying the music service and\/or OS cloud credentials. The identity provider may generate, sign and\/or encrypt the music token  based upon verifying that the music application  is authorized to access the music service. The music token  may comprise the music application ID, the music service ID and\/or a user assigned ID identifying the user. In this way, the token provider component  may provide the music token  to the music application , which may submit the music token  to the music service provider  through the cloud access component . Upon verifying the music token  (e.g., verifying an identity provider signature and\/or the music application ID), the music service provider  may allow the music application  to consume music data  associated with a user music account of the user identified by the user assigned ID without providing login credentials specific to the music service.","In another example, the unknown email application  may request an email token  from the token provider component  to access an email service identified by an email service ID. The token provider component  may submit a token request to the identity provider. The token request may comprise an email application ID identifying the unknown email application , the email service ID identifying the email service and\/or OS cloud credentials. The identity provider may determine that a relationship between the unknown email application  and the email service provider  has not been specified to the identity provider (e.g., the identity provider may not have knowledge of an existing relationship between the unknown email application  and the email service provider ; no relationship may exist between the unknown email application  and the email service provider ; etc.). However, the identity provider may nevertheless generate, sign and\/or encrypt the email token  because the email service provider  may, for example, still make the final determination as to whether the unknown email application  is authorized to access email data from the email service. The email token  may comprise the email application ID, the email service ID and\/or a user assigned ID identifying the user. In this way, the token provider component  may provide the email token  to the unknown email application , which may submit the email token  to the email service provider  through the cloud access component . The email service provider  may determine that the unknown email application  is not authorized to access email data based upon the email application ID (e.g., the email application ID may not match a list of application IDs of approved email applications for the email service provider ). In this way, the email service provider  may deny  the unknown email application  access to the email service.","In another example, the non-genuine email application  may request an email token from the token provider component  to access the email service identified by the email service ID. The token provider component  may submit a token request to the identity provider. The token request may comprise a non-genuine email application ID identifying the non-genuine email application , the email service ID identifying the email service and\/or OS cloud credentials. The identity provider may determine that the non-genuine email application  does not have authorization to access the email service. The identity provider may deny  the email token based upon the failure to validate the non-genuine email application ID of the non-genuine email application  (e.g., the non-genuine email application ID may not match a list of approved email applications for the email service provider ). In this way, the non-genuine email application  may be unable to obtain access to email data from the email service provider  because the non-genuine email application  does not have an email token.","Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer-readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium  (e.g., a CD-R, DVD-R, or a platter of a hard disk drive), on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment , the processor-executable computer instructions  may be configured to perform a method , such as at least some of the exemplary method  of  and\/or exemplary method  of , for example. In another such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to implement a system, such as at least some of the exemplary system  of , for example. Many such computer-readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.","It may be appreciated that at least one of A and B and\/or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["610","612","612","616","618","618","614"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via a network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also, at least one of A and B and\/or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
