---
title: Configurable interactive assistant
abstract: The present invention employs branded virtual characters across multiple network platforms throughout various stages of complex transactions (eg, selling insurance). These characters initially engage prospective customers on a network platform, such as a social network, and persist over time across other network platforms (eg, university and company websites) to educate consumers until they are ready to purchase—e.g., from their “trusted advisor”—particular products and services offered by various providers. An extensible configuration tool (“Config Tool”) is provided to simplify the continued development of such a system, as well as customization of individual Product Modules (e.g., a Life Insurance Module) by product and service providers (e.g., insurance companies and employers) and other third-party developers (before and during runtime). This Config Tool provides a variety of extension points permitting virtual characters to be added and their appearance and behavior modified, along with the details of the products and services being offered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660924&OS=08660924&RS=08660924
owner: Navera, Inc.
number: 08660924
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111004
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit (pursuant to 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) for provisional applications and 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 for nonprovisional patent applications) of (i) U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/289,405, filed Oct. 4, 2010, entitled \u201cInteractive Assistant API,\u201d and (ii) U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/433,720, filed Apr. 30, 2009, entitled \u201cPersistent Sales Agent for Complex Transactions,\u201d each of which is incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of Art","This application relates generally to the field of online sales and distribution systems and, in particular, to an extensible configuration tool permitting third-party customization of an interactive system that facilitates complex transactions by employing branded virtual characters that persist across multiple platforms throughout the various stages of such transactions.","2. Description of Related Art","As discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/433,720, filed on Apr. 30, 2009, there is a need to engage consumers throughout the entirety of a complex sales and distribution process. What is needed is a system that can attract prospective customers and retain them throughout the various stages of a long and complex sales cycle. Moreover, there is a need to simplify the development process of such a system, and make it extensible via a user-friendly configuration tool that permits third-party developers to customize individual product modules, including the runtime assets contained therein.","The present invention employs branded virtual characters across multiple network platforms throughout various stages of complex transactions (eg, selling insurance). These characters initially engage prospective customers on a network platform, such as a social network, and persist over time across other network platforms (eg, university and company websites) to educate consumers until they are ready to purchase\u2014e.g., from their \u201ctrusted advisor\u201d\u2014particular products and services offered by various providers. Even after completing transactions, these characters continue to provide various services, such as notifying a customer whose circumstances have changed of a relevant product or service, while remaining available to answer questions and provide information upon demand. By employing a semi-automated model, the system of the present invention can answer many questions via predetermined vignettes and automated answers generated by expert systems, while still utilizing live human experts (often transparently) when necessary.","An extensible configuration tool (\u201cConfig Tool\u201d) is provided to simplify the continued development of such a system, as well as customization of individual Product Modules (e.g., a Life Insurance Module) by product and service providers (e.g., insurance companies and employers) and other third-party developers. In one embodiment, this Config Tool provides a variety of extension points that permit individual characters to be added and modified, along with their appearance and behavior (at various levels of abstraction). Moreover, the interaction among these virtual characters can also be customized, including their dialogue and interactive conversations with users, as well as with one another. Online providers of products and services can also customize the information that these virtual characters provide to prospective customers, as well as the manner in which such information is provided. The result is an application that can be highly customized by particular online providers to target specific demographic groups of prospective customers.","I. General Architecture","One embodiment of the architecture of a system of the present invention is shown in . As noted above, this system  employs branded virtual characters (not shown) to facilitate complex transactions among multiple service providers  and their customers  across multiple network platforms. In this embodiment, the Internet  is employed to facilitate the interconnection of service providers  and their customers  with the multiple network platforms on which the present invention may be deployed, including a server-based platform  and other network platforms (e.g., social networks)  on which client applications can be deployed.","It should be noted that the present invention can be deployed entirely on a single platform (e.g., a social network such as Facebook, a web server, a company's corporate server, etc) without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Moreover, the client and server hardware on which the present invention is deployed, and which service providers  and their customers  utilize to access the system, can include laptops, desktop computers, enterprise servers, mobile phones and a variety of other computing devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","a"],"b":["174","110","120","160","170","174","180","174","182","185"]},"Beginning with the authoring stage , the entire process is predicated upon various principles of cognitive science , as discussed in greater detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/433,720, filed Apr. 30, 2009, entitled \u201cPersistent Sales Agent for Complex Transactions,\u201d which is incorporated herein by reference. Branded virtual characters and other programmable objects can be correlated with concerns of particular customers, based upon demographic\/profile or psychographic\/behavioral characteristics of those customers. Rather than simply offer prospective customers a selection of choices, the system can associate those choices with branded virtual characters and other programmable objects that represent likely concerns of customers exhibiting a particular demographic or psychographic characteristic.","For example, because younger users naturally question the need for insurance, they are more likely to select the \u201cWhy do I need insurance?\u201d question, particularly if that question is associated with a young virtual cartoon character to which they can relate. Moreover, an animated virtual character is more engaging than a simple textual link. Similarly, a user that has already demonstrated a risk-taking tendency (eg, by previously selecting and repeatedly playing a game or other application involving high-risk behavior) is more likely to seek information relating to the consequences of risky behavior (such as the scope of coverage of a disability policy), whereas a more meticulously careful individual is more likely to seek detailed information or ask questions of a live agent.","Whatever correlations the rules dictate, the result is that prospective customers are more likely to be engaged by characters to which they can relate, and which represent associated concerns that they are likely to have, based at least in part upon their particular demographic or psychographic characteristics. Moreover, because cartoon characters mimic the way in which the human mind actually stores information (eg, by exaggerating and simplifying features, and removing extraneous detail that would be present in more \u201clifelike\u201d images), they are distinctive and readily recognizable, and are thus an effective medium for communicating relatively complex educational concepts (such as insurance). For example, when consumers observe a particular character sustaining various injuries in different types of accidents, they begin to associate that character with the conceptual issue being addressed\u2014eg, \u201cWhy do I need insurance?\u201d","Over time, consumers build up a level of trust in these recurring characters that would not be present in a typical physical (or even online) sales scenario, particularly as they obtain information in a low-pressure sales environment. In some embodiments, these cartoon characters age over time, along with the consumer, and otherwise adapt to a particular environment. In certain embodiments, branded cartoon characters are employed intentionally to appear less human than more \u201clifelike\u201d 3D avatars, which can serve to avoid false expectations of the degree of intelligence expected even from semi-automated systems. Trust can be lost quickly if too much reliance is placed on lifelike characters that are driven solely by artificial intelligence technology, as a character's lack of actual human intelligence can readily become apparent.","This process can in essence become a long-term relationship with a customer over a lifetime, in which multiple products or services are purchased over time. Moreover, one or more trusted advisors as well as other associated characters can persist throughout this long process or relationship.","An authoring tool  is employed to assist system developers, as well as third-party service providers and developers, with the process of authoring Product Modules . Certain pre-programmed parts  and visualization elements  are provided to facilitate this process, such as character libraries, standard animations, images and dialogue that pertain to specific types of products (explained in greater detail below). Prospective life insurance customers, for example, may generally have certain attributes in common, regardless of the particular service provider or life insurance policy. Individual workers face similar scenarios, depending upon their age, family situation, employment environment and a host of other demographic and psychographic data. Moreover, the details of the insurance policies themselves often have much in common. Plan templates  are therefore provided to facilitate the authoring process, as will also be explained in greater detail below.","Through the use of authoring tool , the initial development of customized Product Modules is greatly simplified. However, given the vast array of different types of product offerings that exist across various industries, third-party providers may not have sufficient time or resources to invest in custom development of each Product Module , particularly as their products and services evolve over time. Moreover, even after a particular Product Module is developed and deployed, there is often a need to modify the customer experience in interacting with that Product Module (e.g., due to changes in product offerings, regulatory rule changes, customer behavior, etc).","In one embodiment, third-party providers and developers can continually fine-tune and configure individual Product Modules via a Config Tool , both before and after deployment of a Product Module . Config Tool  will be discussed in greater detail below.","Upon deployment  of a Product Module , the system interacts with customers, seeking their input  in order to deliver a personalized experience  to each particular customer. Integration  with various third-party transaction systems , for example, enables customers to enroll in a particular insurance plan. Integration  with back-end systems and databases  provides both generic and personalized information that can be delivered to customers in many forms, often through vignettes including branded virtual characters.","For example, a trusted insurance agent character might interact with customers regarding a particular insurance plan by speaking audio dialogue, accompanied by textual and visual data, along with animations employing other virtual characters, all in an effort to educate prospective customers regarding various aspects of that insurance plan. By accessing various databases , the system will have access not only to a relevant knowledge base  (containing, for example, details of a particular insurance plan), but also to behavioral data  and actuarial and statistical data  relating not only to people generally, but also to people having similar demographic profiles or exhibiting similar behaviors. This information also includes the behavior of prospective and actual customers with respect to the system itself\u2014e.g., which options they select, which products they purchase and a host of other behavioral and statistical data.","Before discussing details of Config Tool , and the manner in which third-party providers and developers can configure and customize various components of Product Modules , it is helpful to examine the architecture and data model underlying the system itself, and the generation of these components. In one embodiment of the present invention, third-party providers and developers can utilize Config Tool  to access, configure and customize various core components used to construct a Product Module . Additional custom components can also be added when the Product Module  is compiled, or even dynamically at runtime. A consistent syntax in the data formats facilitates the construction of \u201ceditors\u201d (e.g., visual editors) used to develop core and custom components.","A Product Module  is divided into components which are each composed of smaller units, called \u201cModels\u201d, \u201cViews\u201d, and \u201cControllers.\u201d The \u201cModel-View-Controller\u201d paradigm is a common way of breaking apart the data representation (Model), the module's user interface (View), and the code which mediates between them and the user (Controller).","Controllers determine how a Product Module  progresses over time, passing Events (messages to invoke actions) to other Controllers or to Views, which are the visual elements of a module. Views respond to Events, while Models contain small pieces of data, such as preferences, recent user history and visual settings. Controls are parts of a View, such as a UI (user interface) widget. Forms are special Controls that can contain one or more other Controls and which convey data to users.","A simple diagram of an Element  or Plugin of the system is illustrated in . The Controller  scripts dictate the interaction with users, and how data (Model ) is extracted via the UI elements  (Forms, Views and Controls). Multiple Elements (e.g., , ,  and ) then interact with one another, triggered by various Events , as illustrated in . A more concrete example is illustrated in , in which a particular Element, such as a Main Controller , invokes certain Dialogues  (e.g., explanations of concepts to users) and Questions  (e.g., to elicit information from users), each of which can include various visual elements or Overlays  (e.g., characters, illustrative images, etc.) accompanied by Audio  and Animations  (e.g., an animated character speaking the Dialogues and Questions to users). While under the control of Main Controller , various Elements of  may also be triggered via predefined Events . Moreover, additional Elements or Plugins  may be added to the system at any time, e.g., via the Config Tool (not shown).","In one embodiment, the following set of six core components are available to third-party providers and developers:","Step","Dialogue","Question","Response","Overlay","Form (including NumberForm, TextForm, RadioForm and EmptyForm)","Steps (not shown in ) are subsections of a script (such as Main Controller ), representing a distinct \u201cscene\u201d or idea. In this embodiment, a Step includes at least one Question and may also contain one or more Dialogues. For example, a simple Step might include a single Dialogue and one Question which has two possible Responses (also not shown in ), and would look like the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Step\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cid\u201d value=\u201c2\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cpreDialogues\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Dialogue\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201canimationUrl\u201d value=\u201cassets\/animations\/scene3.swf\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201clines\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Line\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<string>Some basic dialogue.<\/string>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cquestion\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Question\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cform\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.controls.RadioForm\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cautoPosition\u201d value=\u201ctrue\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cresponses\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Response\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d value=\u201cAnswer 1 (leads to next)\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cnext\u201d value=\u201c3\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Response\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d value=\u201cAnswer 2 (leads to next)\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cnext\u201d value=\u201c3\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"<\/object>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Dialogues  are non-interactive sets of animation, audio and text. Dialogues  typically are used to illustrate a point or educate the user. Any number of characters may talk during a Dialogue , but Harvey (the primary \u201cvirtual agent\u201d in this embodiment) usually is the one to talk to the user or narrate. Dialogues  may appear before a Question  or after a Response. Another example of a simple Dialogue  is the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Dialogue\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201canimationUrl\u201d value=\u201cassets\/"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003animations\/scene1.swf\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201clines\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.-"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003Line\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<string>Hi, I'm Harvey Keck, your"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003virtual insurance guide.<\/string>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"<\/object>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Questions  prompt users for input (e.g., Responses). In one embodiment, a Form may contain an animation and audio representing an audio cue to the user (e.g., Harvey asking a question). Each Question  contains a Form and any number of Responses, such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<property name=\u201cquestion\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Question\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201canimationUrl\u201d value=\u201cassets\/animations\/scene2.swf|blue\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201clines\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Line\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<string>FINALLY! A question!<\/string>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cform\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<!--"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003RadioForm can be auto-positioned, which"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003means that the responses will be stacked"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003predictably. You can still position them"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003relatively."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003-->"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.controls.RadioForm\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cautoPosition\u201d value=\u201ctrue\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cresponses\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Response\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d value=\u201cStart from Beginning\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cnext\u201d value=\u201c1\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Response\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201ctext\u201d value=\u201cGo to the next step\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cnext\u201d value=\u201c2\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/property>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"<\/property>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"A Response represents a potential way a user might respond to a Question . A Response can include a range of user responses, or a specific response. If the user fails to respond, a default response can be employed. Each Response ends with a link to a \u201cnext\u201d desired Step.","Overlays  are animations that can be substituted for the default animations provided by the system\u2014e.g., to allow more customizability, or to add additional characters to a scene without recompiling any code. The use of \u201clayers\u201d allows for Overlays  to be placed in front of or behind other objects. Default Overlays  are used to place UI elements on the screen. In one embodiment, an Overlay  can be displayed for a specified duration of time or number of Steps, or indefinitely. Following is an example of a set of default Overlays :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<property name=\u201cdefaultOverlays\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<array>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Overlay\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201canimationUrl\u201d"},{"entry":"value=\u201cassets\/animations\/DEFAULT_BACKGROUND.swf\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cremoveAfterComplete\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003value=\u201cfalse\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cremoveAfterStopped\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003value=\u201cfalse\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201clayerName\u201d value="},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u201cbackgrounds\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<object type=\u201ccom.trustnode.assistant.models.Overlay\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201canimationUrl\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003value=\u201cassets\/animations\/ui.swf\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cremoveAfterComplete\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003value=\u201cfalse\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<property name=\u201cremoveAfterStopped\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003value=\u201cfalse\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/object>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/array>"},{"entry":"<\/property>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Forms are a set of UI Controls that (in one embodiment) are displayed during a Question . They allow the user to input a Response that gets parsed to change the flow of the module. Forms can be customized to allow potential new ways for the user to respond. For example, one could create an \u201cUpload Form\u201d to allow a user to upload a photo or scans of insurance information. Another custom Form could be a \u201cplan calculator\u201d which could allow for a sophisticated multi-Step Question  which could calculate premiums for a user.","As will be discussed below with respect to Config Tool , the present invention is extensible at a variety of \u201cextension points\u201d including Controllers (e.g., to change the control flow of a module), Views\/Controls\/Forms (e.g., to add new UI elements and new ways for users to respond), Models (e.g., to store new types of data), Styles (e.g., custom CSS styles), and Tags (e.g., custom XML tags to add new features or simplify data representation). In one embodiment, use of the Parsley Framework also provides various extension points without accessing internal source code.","Plan Templates are employed to faciliate rapid customization of individual aspects of plans (e.g., the amount of the deductible for a particular insurance policy). Module Templates permit configuration and customization of various different component Elements of a Product Module, beyond the design of individual product or service plans. Moreover, \u201cPresets\u201d enable third-party providers and developers to group multiple different configurations (e.g., swappable Elements), thereby further simplifying the process of configuring and customizing a Product Module. Each of these concepts is discussed in greater detail below.","II. Config Tool",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-9","b":["175","175"]},"The screen snapshot in  illustrates the UI  of Product Tab  of Config Tool , presented in the window of a web browser (with standard web browser controls  in this embodiment. A user (e.g., a third-party insurance provider), upon selecting a product category  such as Medical products , is presented with a list of available products  from which to choose, all of which fall under the Medical products umbrella. In this embodiment, available products  encompass all of the medical products offered by the provider via this system.","Note that an individual Product Module might include one or more of these products or plans, both within and across different product categories . Regardless of the grouping of products within a Product Module, Config Tool  permits users to customize (in this embodiment) certain aspects of individual products or plans, as well as more global aspects within and across Product Modules. In one embodiment, each product category  corresponds to a Product Module. For example, a Medical Module might include one or more medical products selected from among the list of available products  (but no products from other non-medical categories, such as dental, vision, etc).","The purpose of UI  is to enable a user\/provider to determine which products to include for a particular deployment. For example, an insurance provider might offer both HMO and PPO products to employees of one particular company, but only HMO products to employees of another company. In the example illustrated in , the user has previously selected both HMO and PPO products from the list of available products , and added them (e.g., via Add button ) to the list of selected products  to be included in this deployment. Similarly, Remove button  may be used to remove a product from the list of selected products . In other embodiments, a product might only be visible in either the list of available products  or selected products  (rather than always remaining visible in the list of available products ). This is purely an implementation decision.","Note that the list of selected products  also includes other products outside of the Medical category . For example, no products have yet been selected from the Dental category , while Vision Plan A was previously selected from Vision category . Similarly, Term Life was selected from Life category , while Vol STD was selected from Disability category ","Having selected which of the available products  across the various product categories  to include in a particular deployment, a user\/provider may then configure various global presentation-related aspects for one or more Product Modules, as shown in , which illustrates one embodiment of a Presentation tab  of Config Tool . In one embodiment, UI  assumes that a particular Product Module has already been selected. In other embodiments, UI  could include a list of Product Modules (or individual products or plans within a Product Module) to which the presentation-related configuration would apply.","In the embodiment illustrated in , a user can select from among multiple Menu Types , including the \u201cMain Menu\u201d configuration shown therein. For example, as will be illustrated below with respect to a sample Life Module, a \u201cMain Menu\u201d option may be used to combine multiple Product Modules into a \u201cMenu Module\u201d to permit navigation among different product offerings. Other options can include different menu titles, different sets of menu items, or various different levels of menus and sub-menus. Additional Display options  are provided, such as whether the Product Module is an \u201cExpanding\u201d Module as well as the size of each screen (e.g., a 640\u00d7480 window). Moreover, various Navigation options  are included, such as a Plan Summary button (to enable users to see summary information regarding a particular insurance product or plan), Back and Skip buttons (to enable users to repeat or skip certain Elements of a Product Module, such as section of Dialogue), a Quote button (to enable users to obtain an immediate quote for a particular insurance product or plan, based upon information previously provided\u2014e.g., by redirecting users to a particular URL) and an Enroll button (to enable users to enroll in a provider's plan\u2014e.g., by redirecting users to a particular URL). These options will be illustrated below with respect to a sample Life Module. It should be noted that these redirected URLs (with respect to the Quote and Enroll buttons) are utilized in conjunction with one embodiment of the integration  of third-party transaction systems  (as discussed above with respect to ) into the present invention.","Turning to , UI  illustrates one embodiment of a Plan Design tab  of Config Tool . A user\/provider first selects a Product Module , e.g., a Term Life Module, and a particular product or plan , e.g., the \u201cLifePlan_Cigna23,\u201d included within that Term Life Module. In one embodiment, a user\/provider would (e.g., based upon information associated with the user's login credentials) have access only to particular Product Modules and products\/plans for which that user\/provider was authorized. This enables multiple different third-party providers to utilize Config Tool , but see only their own products\/plans. Moreover, even within a particular provider, certain persons might be authorized to see different subsets of the Product Modules and products\/plans.","Having selected a particular Product Module  and plan , a user\/provider could then configure a variety of data  associated with that plan . As noted above, many products or plans (and\/or categories of plan designs) have a great deal of similarity with one another. By presenting these common data elements, different providers can easily customize this data to reflect the specific details of their plans.","For example, in one embodiment, data  includes not only the Name  of the plan, but also the Calculation  employed (e.g., via a calculator widget with an overall cap on the coverage amount, as well as a cap on the customer's salary), including its Type  (e.g., an \u201cage-banded\u201d calculation offering different costs and benefits based on the age range of the customer). In addition, amounts can be entered for Minimum  (e.g., 1000) and Maximum  (e.g., 500,000) coverage Caps, Guaranteed amounts  (e.g., 250,000), a particular level  (e.g., 4) of Salary Caps, and an increment  (e.g., 10,000) amount separating the different coverage levels. Finally, similar data  can be specified for family members, such as spouses (Maximum , Minimum , Cap  and Increment ) and children (Minimum  and Maximum ). The structure of Module Templates and Plan Designs will be discussed in greater detail below in order to provide a context in which the configuration and customization of this plan data  can be better understood.","Turning to , UI  of Branding tab  of Config Tool  illustrates one embodiment of a mechanism for enabling different users\/providers (or perhaps corporations offering products from one or more providers) to differentiate themselves by branding different aspects of Product Modules. For example, although a standard set of characters  is included by default (e.g., Harvey Keck, the trusted insurance advisor, along with the Potter family, representing a variety of different family members with which prospective customers can identify), a particular provider might desire to specify its own Character Set . These custom characters serve not only to differentiate that provider (or corporation) from its competitors, but might also enable the provider or company to target particular customers, based on industry, demographics, etc., by selecting characters having attributes (appearance, behavior, etc) with which those desired customers might better identify. A tool for building custom characters from common component parts is also included and discussed in greater detail below.","In addition to branding the characters themselves, a user\/provider can also select from among various Company  and Character  logos that can be incorporated within Product Modules at various points, depending upon the design of Module Templates and their component Elements, as discussed in greater detail below.","Finally, turning to , UI  of Animation tab  of Config Tool  illustrates the many different aspects of a Product Module (Term Life Module selected via Module dropdown ) that can be configured and customized. In one embodiment, a Table of Contents (TOC ) is provided to enable a user\/provider to select different \u201cscenes\u201d or component Steps of Term Life Module  to configure. As noted above (and discussed in greater detail below), when a Module Template is designed, individual Elements can be grouped together into a Step, including for example some Dialogue (text, audio, etc), Questions, and Animations (including logos and other background visuals).","In this example, Step   of TOC  has been selected, enabling a user\/provider to edit or select the Line of text  that will be displayed initially when Term Life Module  is launched. In addition, the accompanying initial Audio  (e.g., an introductory speech by trusted insurance advisor Harvey Keck) and associated Animation  (e.g., a bicycle crash animation referenced by Harvey) can be selected from among various choices, with the previously selected Logo either shown or hidden via checkbox . Another option might include an extended vignette (via checkbox ), such as a longer animation with additional audio, text, etc.","Similar configuration of subsequent Steps (e.g., Step  ) is also shown, including checkbox  to show or hide the previously selected Logo, and dropdown  to select the desired Animation (e.g., illustrating the General Benefits of Term Life Module ). In this manner, a wide variety of different Elements of each Product Module can be configured and customized. Of course, certain levels of customization will require use of Authoring Tool  (e.g., creating a completely new Animation), but many of the most frequently desired modifications can be incorporated into Config Tool  as required by the demands of third-party providers, corporations and other customers.","III. Configurable Product Modules, Templates and Component Elements","Having discussed the user interface and various features of Config Tool , it is helpful to understand the underlying structure of Product Modules during which these configurable components are developed. As noted above, Module Templates facilitate the development of Product Modules sharing many common Elements, while Plan Designs also include Plan Templates for similar reaons.  illustrates one embodiment of the dynamic runtime flow  among various components of a Product Module (in this case a Life Module including one or more life insurance products or plans) of the present invention. These Elements and their components can be developed with Authoring Tool , and then customized and swapped for one another via Config Tool  both before and after deployment (even during runtime in one embodiment) of the Product Module.","Once the Life Module is deployed, prospective customers are authenticated by logging into the system (Login ) and selecting a Product Module  (in this case, a Life Module including a particular life insurance plan). A block diagram of a Life Module Template  illustrates key component Elements through which prospective customers can navigate. The interactive flow is determined by the logic of Controllers, shown in this embodiment as multiple Base Script XML Blocks , which include sequential, conditional and event-based logic associated with individual Elements or groups of Elements, and initiated by a \u201cmain\u201d Controller (not shown) when the Program Module is launched.","A key Element of Life Module Template  is Plan Design Template  which in this embodiment employs a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) script  (for representing simple data structures and arrays) to define the various data components of the life insurance plan offered to prospective customers. The components of this plan, including a Plan Template, are discussed in greater detail below with respect to . Other Elements of Life Module Template  draw upon the components of Plan Design Template  to educate prospective customers with respect to various aspects of the life insurance plan.","Intro  is the initial Element with which prospective customers interact. In this example, two different introductory vignettes are included\u2014Intro A  (including two Dialogue components) and Intro B  (including 3 Dialogue components). Each Dialogue component might include one or more lines of spoken dialogue. Referring back to Animation tab  of Config Tool  shown in  above), a provider might select one of these Intro choices using Config Tool , depending upon a variety of factors (type of industry, corporate employer, customer demographics, prospective customer behavior, sell-thru, etc.). In other embodiments, additional and more complex choices can be added, and at various different levels of granularity (e.g., an entire Element, a Step within that Element, a single Dialogue, Audio or Animation, etc).","At runtime, the system displays the selected Intro Element , and plays the associated Intro Audio , which in this example includes a choice of a short  or long  version (implemented as MP3 audio files). Note that, in this example, Intro B  also includes the display of an associated Intro Logo , which itself can be tailored to different companies, illustrated here as a Company A Logo  and a Company B Logo . Note that such branding could be selected via Branding tab  of Config Tool  (see ), and could differentiate insurance providers, corporations offering the insurance, etc.","Following Intro , Life Module Template  causes a menu to be displayed on the screen, offering prospective customers a choice of educational options to explore. These options are illustrated and discussed below (starting with ) with reference to a Life Module example scenario. The first Element represents the first menu choice, \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d . Once again, Life Module Template  includes a choice of multiple different Elements from which a user\/provider of Config Tool  can select. In this example, two alternatives are illustrated: a short single-Step Element , or a longer 4-step Element . Each Step may of course contain multiple component Dialogues (text, audio, visuals, animations, etc.), Questions, Responses, etc.","Another Element in Life Module Template  is Calculator , which in this example offers a choice among a simple , complex  and multi-step  calculator. These calculators (e.g., widgets that implement particular formulas to calculate numeric amounts, percentages, etc. on given data constants and variables) can be associated with certain aspects of Plan Design . For example, Calculator  might be employed to calculate a life insurance benefit based upon variables such as a customer's age, salary or deductible, among other factors. Certain calculations require relative simple formulas, in which case simple Calculator  might suffice, while other calculations require more complex  and even multi-step  Calculators. In other embodiments, Life Module Template  could include multiple different calculators, each selecting from simple, complex, multi-step or other types of Calculators.","Just as Life Module Template  includes an Intro Element , it also includes a Closing Steps Element , which might for example, provide some final summary information (not shown) to facilitate the prospective customer's purchase decision. Note that some or all of the Elements included in Life Module Template  can be configured and customized in Config Tool .","In addition, to further simplify the configuration process, the concept of Presets  enables third-party providers and developers to save lists of multiple different configurations. For example, Preset A  (which could be given a more descriptive name) includes 5 different configuration selections: (i) a particular Plan Template (#2), (ii) a particular \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element (long 4-step Element ), (iii) simple Calculator , (iv) long Intro Audio , and (v) Company A Logo . This enables a user\/provider of Config Tool  to select all 5 of these configuration choices with a single selection of Preset A . Similarly, Preset B  includes 4 selections (some of which overlap with Preset A ): (i) Plan Template (#2), (ii) short 1-step \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element , (iii) simple Calculator , and (iv) short Intro Audio . Other Presets (e.g., Preset n ) may also be selected via Config Tool .","Finally, a Character Library  (including a database of character parts) enables third-party providers and developers to configure and customize various different aspects of a virtual character's appearance and behavior. In one embodiment, the ability to customize virtual character attributes is included in Config Tool . In others, a separate tool is provided. In the example illustrated in , a user\/provider can select from among 2 different character sets (Character Set A  or Character Set ), each of which includes different component parts. Character Set A , for example, includes parts  (implemented in this embodiment as Adobe Flash \u201cSWF\u201d animation files) which can be combined selectively to generate a particular animation  of that character. Other component parts  can be combined selectively to generate a different animation  of that same virtual character. Similarly, Character Set B  includes component parts  which can be combined selectively to generate animation , while component parts  can be combined selectively to generate animation . A more detailed discussion of Character Library , and the manner in which these component parts can be selected to generate different animations of the same basic characters by modifying their appearance and behavior, is set forth below with respect to .","Turning to the Templates  illustrated in , Life Module Template  is shown to include the same basic Elements discussed above with respect to , including Plan Design Template , Intro Element , the \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element  (corresponding to a particular menu item), Calculator Element  and \u201cClosing Steps\u201d Element , with each Element being driven by a Base Script XML Block .","Plan Design Template  in turn includes variables representing common data components that are utilized to generate various aspects of a particular life insurance plan, such as Minimum and Maximum coverage amounts , an ageTable data structure  (used, for example, to hold different benefit values associated with different age ranges), a Salary Cap data structure , along with certain Guaranteed Salary Cap amounts , a variable number of Annual Pay Periods , values for covering children , and a host of other data variables that are common to particular types of life insurance plans. Where different providers offer significantly different types of plans having fewer common data variables, multiple different Plan Templates can be employed, again allowing a provider to select among them via Config Tool .","The Templates  shown in  illustrate the corresponding Templates  from  (now Life Module Template  and Plan Design Template ), with selected data values filled into the corresponding template data structures. For example, Intro Element  from  is now represented as Intro Element  of , which includes the selection of specific Dialogue 1 and Dialogue 2 Elements. \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element  from  is now represented as the \u201cshort\u201d version of \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element  of  (e.g., a version with fewer Dialogues than other alternative versions). Calculator Element  of  now reflects the choice of a simple Calculator  in . Finally, \u201cClosing Steps\u201d Element  of  now reflects the selection of a particular \u201cCall Agent\u201d Step  as the final Element of Life Module Template  that will be displayed to prospective customers.","Moreover, with respect to Plan Design Template , the values of the various different types of data have been filled into the corresponding data structures. For example, data values  include selected amounts for global, \u201cplan-level\u201d minimum, maximum and guaranteed caps (including maximums for children), while data values  include similar amounts for individual plan members. Data values  include similar amounts for spouses (including percentage caps and different array levels for spousal coverage), while data values  include coverage amounts and fee multipliers for children. Finally, data values  include miscellaneous global, \u201cplan-level\u201d values, such as the number of annual pay periods, a decision not to take the spouse's age into account and an age table including coverage multipliers for different age ranges.","IV. Configurable Character Libraries","As referenced above, Character Library  shown in  can be modified via Config Tool  or, in another embodiment, via a separate tool dedicated to the selection of individual character parts. For example, a third-party provider or developer might select from among multiple different Virtual Character Sets (i.e., libraries of character parts) , including a default set of standard characters  and other customized character sets, such as Provider 1 characters  and Provider 2 characters .","In one embodiment, each of the Character Sets  contains certain core components, including (i) Bodies, (ii) Body Parts, (iii) Faces; (iv) Costumes; (v) Clothing and (vi) Expressions. These core components are designed to be combined to enable the creation of individual virtual characters whose identity is retained even when animated exhibiting different appearances and behaviors.","For example, by selecting a particular Body, Body Parts (e.g., hands, legs, etc) and Face, a distinct recognizable virtual character can be created. That virtual character can then be employed to generate multiple different animation sequences, exhibiting different behaviors (talking, walking, running, etc.). Moreover, the appearance of that virtual character can be modified by altering its Costumes, Clothing and facial Expressions.","Upon selecting a virtual Character Set , and customizing its appearance, a provider can then select from among various different behaviors in Animation Library . For example, the selected virtual character can be deployed in different poses surrounded by different props, and exhibiting various different facial expressions. Standard and custom animations can be chosen to enable selected virtual characters to exhibit a wide variety of different behaviors.","In addition, background settings for selected virtual characters can be selected from Background Asset Library , including visual assets such as buildings, trees, mountains, streets, sidewalks and signposts, as well as background animations. Selections from Animation Library  and Background Asset Library  are integrated into vignettes forming Final Scenes  that will be displayed to prospective customers.","In one embodiment, Final Scenes  include only programmatic data, distinct from the actual assets themselves. Such data include script logic (implemented, for example, in ActionScript) and Frame Labels, and controls scene timing as well as the playback of selected animations (including rotations and other translations). A distinct Audio Library  is integrated with multiple Final Scenes  to form Product Modules  that ultimately will be deployed to prospective customers. A Suite  of these Product Modules  is then available for subsequent configuration and customization (before and during runtime) by third-party providers and developers.","Once Product Modules  are completed, they can be deployed on various different platforms, including web-based or corporate server platforms (such as Server Platform  in ), as well as mobile phones and social networks such as Facebook and other Network Platforms  that can support client or server-based applications.","To illustrate the result of deploying these customized Program Modules , an example scenario of a deployed Life Module is depicted in  and discussed in greater detail below.","V. Configurable Life Module Scenario",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":"1400"},"Screen  includes a depiction of a virtual character, in this case trusted insurance advisor Harvey Keck , who can interact with and educate the prospective customer regarding a provider's insurance products, and ultimately enable the purchase of such products. Note that Harvey  is the result of a particular selected combination of virtual character parts (face, body, arms, legs, etc), and exhibits a desired appearance (e.g., clothes, glasses, etc) as well as various animated behaviors (movements, gestures, etc), along with background visual elements, such as his desk .","In addition, navigation buttons are displayed to enable the prospective customer to interact with Harvey , and invoke certain functionality. For example, button  will toggle (e.g., mute) the audio, including Harvey's voice and any background sounds. Button  will display a scene Menu that is discussed with respect to  below. Button  navigates backward in the Life Module (e.g., Step by Step back through distinct scenes or groups of Elements within Life Module), while button  Skips forward through such Steps. At any given moment, rather than proceeding linearly through the Life Module, the prospective customer can select button  to invoke a Plan Summary scene or button  to Enroll in and purchase one or more of the offered insurance plans.","Upon the launch of the Life Module, the Intro Element will be invoked (discussed with respect to  above), and Harvey  will begin speaking the selected Dialogue(s), accompanied by any associated Text, Audio, Animations, etc. -illustrate an opening animation scene in which Harvey  educates the prospective customer regarding the concept of life insurance and the need to protect against unexpected risks.","Following this introductory scene, a menu screen  (depicted in ) is displayed, and Harvey  presents the prospective customer with various choices with respect to life insurance, such as menu item  (\u201cWhat Is It\u201d), menu item  (\u201cWhy Should I Buy It), menu item  (\u201cHow Does It Work?\u201d) and menu Item  (\u201cHow Much Should I Buy?\u201d). Each of these choices will be discussed below. Note that these choices are the result of configuration selections in the Plan Template itself (e.g., via the Config Tool), including the Dialogue that Harvey  speaks while menu screen  is displayed.","Should a prospective customer select menu item , then a \u201cWhat Is It?\u201d Element would be invoked, illustrated in screen  of . In this example, a simple and short animation is played (a snapshot of which is illustrated in ), accompanied by Harvey's background audio summarizing the concept of life insurance (e.g., protecting yourself and your family against the prospect of a \u201crainy day\u201d or unexpected risk). This example could result from the provider's selection of a \u201cshort\u201d Element, such as Element  depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIGS. 18-22","FIG. 16"],"b":["1630","1800","1810","1820","1830"]},"In this example, the prospective customer enters \u201c25\u201d in text input box , which invokes screens - in -. As a result of the provider's selection of various choices for this option, Harvey voices a Dialogue indicating that the prospective customer falls within the \u201cGen Y\u201d demographic group. The associated animations depicted in -involve other virtual characters in a series of vignettes accompanied by Harvey's educational Dialogues. Note that these vignettes are the results of a provider's configuration via the Config Tool.","For example, Harvey begins by explaining that younger people don't necessarily have the same financial responsibilities as do older people (), but that benefits can be enjoyed at low group rates (). Such benefits can include payment of funeral expenses for loved ones (), college tuition for a kid brother (), contributions to charitable causes such as preventing deforestation (), or just putting aside money for a rainy day ().","Alternatively, if the prospective customer entered the age of \u201c55,\u201d as shown in input text box  of , a slightly more complex set of Elements is invoked, as illustrated in screen  of . A set of 3 menu choices is presented to the prospective customer, accompanied by Harvey's Dialogue indicating that the prospective customer is a \u201cbaby boomer\u201d like Harvey. In this example (again as a result of third-party selections made via the Config Tool), if the prospective customer selects menu item  (\u201cInheritance For Your Heirs\u201d), then screen  of is displayed, accompanied by Harvey's explanation that life insurance benefits can be paid to heirs such as aging parents, children and others. If menu item  (\u201cPay For Your Final Expenses\u201d) is selected, then screen  of is displayed, accompanied by Harvey's explanation that life insurance benefits can cover funeral costs, estate administration costs, debts, etc. Finally, menu item  returns the prospective customer to the Main Menu on screen  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIGS. 23","FIG. 16","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"i":["a","f ","a","b","c","d","e","f"],"b":["1640","2310","2320","2330","2340","2350","2360"]},"Finally, if a prospective customer selects the \u201cHow Much Should I Buy?\u201d menu item , then Harvey asks for information in order to provide an estimate of the appropriate amount of coverage. For example, in screen  of , a prospective customer has indicated that he or she is 25 years old (input text box ), has an annual income of $75,000 (input text box ) and desires coverage for his or her spouse and children (checkboxes ). As a result, information is displayed on screen  of showing costs per paycheck for each family member for a given amount between the plan's minimum and maximum coverage, and allowing the prospective customer to adjust that amount (control ) and see the resulting effect on the cost per paycheck. Once the prospective customer is satisfied with the desired coverage amount (i.e., by selecting the \u201cDone\u201d button ), then confirmation screen  of is displayed, providing a summary of the coverage and cost data, and allowing the prospective customer to enroll in the plan by selecting \u201cNext\u201d button .","Similarly, if the customer indicated (on screen  of ) that he or she is 55 years old (input text box ), has an annual income of $100,000 (input text box ) and desires coverage for his or her spouse and children (checkboxes ), then information is displayed on screen  of showing costs per paycheck for each family member for a given amount between the plan's minimum and maximum coverage, and allowing the prospective customer to adjust that amount (control ) and see the resulting effect on the cost per paycheck. Once the prospective customer is satisfied with the desired coverage amount (i.e., by selecting the \u201cDone\u201d button ), then confirmation screen  of is displayed, providing a summary of the coverage and cost data, and allowing the prospective customer to enroll in the plan by selecting \u201cNext\u201d button .","While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described above, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made in the arrangement, operation and details of the methods and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention defined in the claims below."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 15","i":["a","c "],"b":"15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 18 and 19","i":["a","f "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 20","b":["21","22"],"i":["a","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 23","i":["a","f "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 24 and 25","i":["a","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 26 and 27","i":["a","b "]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
