---
title: Apparatus and method for measuring energy in a laser beam
abstract: A laser energy sensor and methodology for measuring laser energy in a laser beam by photoacoustic means. Laser energy is converted into acoustic energy which is then measured and converted to an energy reading corresponding to the energy of a laser beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08659753&OS=08659753&RS=08659753
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08659753
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110921
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, licensed, and used by or for the U.S. Government.","This invention relates to sensors for measuring the energy of a laser beam. More specifically, the invention is a sensor and methodology that employs a photoacoustic effect to measure the energy in a pulsed laser beam.","The conventional techniques used to measure energy of a laser beam typically utilize costly technologies such as pyroelectric based sensors. Pyroelectric based sensors rely on the ability of certain materials to generate a temporary voltage when they are heated or cooled. Such sensors are costly to manufacture and can easily command prices of around one thousand dollars per unit.","Prior art thermopiles are based on thermocouples in series which generate a voltage based on the amount of heating caused by absorption of the laser. However, the absorber must be in close contact with the thermopile, and damage to the absorbing surface from the impinging laser will also likely damage the underlying thermopile. Furthermore, replacing the absorbing surface and reintegrating that surface with the thermopile is not easy, so that repair of the sensor is costly.","Prior art pyroelectric detectors are based on the pyroelectric effect, where certain crystals change their voltage based on their temperature. These materials are also susceptible to damage and are also expensive, and the sensor element is not easily replaced.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,758,969 issued to Freyaldenhoven describes an instrument for measuring the energy of optical radiation, particularly laser radiation. The '969 device uses a plurality of radiation absorbing plate-like foraminous elements which are disposed in a tubular housing such that the radiation entering at one end of the housing is successively absorbed by the radiation absorbing elements which are heated thereby. A fan disposed at the other end of the housing moves cooling air through the housing and through the radiation absorbing elements whereby the air is heated. From the temperature increase of the cooling air which is measured by a temperature measuring element, the energy of the optical radiation entering the housing is determined. While the '969 patent issued to Freyaldenhoven has merit it is perhaps a somewhat cumbersome way of determining the energy in a laser beam.","Therefore, a more robust and faster method of measuring the energy in a laser beam is required.","While such technologies as described above have proved useful in measuring and characterizing pulsed laser beams there is a need for less costly sensors.","A laser energy sensor and methodology for measuring laser energy in a laser beam by acoustic means is provided. Laser energy is converted into acoustic energy which is then measured and converted to an energy reading corresponding to the energy of a laser beam.","This invention is directed to sensors for measuring the energy of a pulsed laser beam. More specifically, the invention is a sensor that exploits the photoacoustic effect to measure the energy in a laser beam. The photoacoustic effect occurs when light from a source, such as a laser, is absorbed by a material and the absorbed light is rapidly converted to heat which, is then dissipated to the surroundings. Heat transfer into the gas phase is rapidly converted into the translational motion of gas molecules, which is observed as an increase in pressure. If the light source, such as a laser, is modulated or pulsed at a given frequency then the result is an increase and decrease in pressure at the same frequency as the modulation of the light source. This oscillation of pressure is a sound wave. The intensity, or amplitude, of the pressure waves (sound) is directly proportional to the intensity of the light source and the absorption coefficient of the absorbing material. Thus, the intensity of the light source or laser can be determined from the sound produced. Thus, the invention provides an apparatus and method for measuring energy in a laser beam.","Referring to the Figures,  shows a schematic diagram of a laser energy sensor  according to one embodiment of the present invention. A pulsed laser light  enters the sensor . The pulsed laser  is incident on and absorbed by a laser absorber . The laser absorber  converts at least a portion of the absorbed pulsed laser light into an acoustic signal, i.e., sound energy. The acoustic signal is in proportion to the energy of the pulsed laser light .","A plurality of microphones  (labeled as \u201c\u201d, \u201c\u201d and \u201c\u201d) are located proximate to the laser absorber . Each microphone detects and converts the sound energy into a voltage signal. A root mean square integrator  calculates the root mean square (RMS) voltage value of the voltage signals produced by the microphones . The calculated RMS voltage value is proportional to the energy in the pulsed laser light . A suitable output device  converts the RMS voltage value into a readable format indicative of the energy of the pulsed laser light . The output device  can be any suitable output device such as, but not limited to, an oscilloscope such as, but not limited to, a Tektronix TDS 5145B digital oscilloscope. The microphones  can be replaced with transducers that can detect and convert acoustic noise or vibrations into voltage output signals for input into the root mean square integrator .","It should be understood that any suitable material can be used as a laser absorber such as a graphite absorber; however, a high damage threshold laser absorber is preferred so that significant variation in performance of the laser absorber  does not occur as absorber material is ablated away. Commercially available laser beam traps can also be used. For example, Thorlabs LB1 beam trap is an acceptable laser absorber. In its most generic embodiment, the laser absorber of the present invention comprises stacked razor blades positioned so that the sharp edges of the blades create narrow openings for receiving the incident laser beam. Unlike a graphite absorber, a stacked razor blade absorber does not suffer from ablation of the absorber surface, which prevents any variation in performance that could occur as absorber material is ablated away. In , the laser absorber  is made up of a stack of razor blades located on a metal block . The laser absorber  defines a laser absorber target surface . The razor blades serve as a high damage laser absorber; more specifically, the razor blades maintain an acceptable level of performance by mitigating ablation damage from the pulsed laser source . The razor blades slavishly generate sound energy in proportion to the laser energy in the pulsed laser light . The razor blades can be aligned in any suitable pattern. For example, the razor blades can be stacked with sharp edges aligned with respect to each other and perpendicular to the surface .","Saturation of the sensor surface can occur when laser energy is such that the absorber surface cannot absorb any more light. To limit saturation of the sensor, the absorber is angled at a glancing angle to spread the incoming laser light across the widest possible surface area. Diffusing can also be accomplished using an alumina diffuser, i.e., sintered alumina compressed into a highly porous disc. In , the metal block  has a triangular cross-section with a downward facing slope  of angle alpha (shown as \u201c\u03b1\u201d). The angle alpha should be selected so that the laser beam is distributed across the entire surface  of absorber . This distributes the energy of the beam  across the absorber  so that heat is distributed and ablation damage is reduced or eliminated. The laser absorber  is located on the slope  of the metal block  in order to diffuse the incoming beam and avoid saturation. The metal block  also acts as a heat sink with respect to the laser absorber . More specifically, the metal block  provides thermal stability to the laser absorber . The metal block  can be made out of any suitable metal or metal alloy able to conduct heat away from the laser absorber . For example, the metal block  can be made out of aluminum or copper.","The microphones  can be made up of any suitable microphones. For example, the microphones  can be low cost electret microphones that are used in cellular or mobile phones. These microphones are biased with a low voltage, 1.4 Volts is typical. The output of the microphones  is directed to an amplifier  (current to voltage) and then the signals are averaged. The purpose of averaging is to reduce any variation in the detected signal that depends on the location of the laser beam spot on the face of the absorber .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":"140"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["120","140","100"]},"The measurement plots shown in  show a linear dependence of the microphone RMS voltage on the calibrated laser pulse energy from 0-100 milli-Joules per laser pulse. At about 100 milli-Joules per laser pulse, the response of the sensor configuration tested (), began to saturate, so that no additional microphone response was measured when the laser pulse energy was increased. The absorber  can experience saturation, so additional dynamic range can be obtained with a diffuser to spread the laser energy over the absorber . The sensor  includes a housing  for the purpose of reducing scattering of the incoming pulsed laser light  that could pose a hazard to the user, as well as protecting the laser absorber target surface  from the impingement of dust.","With reference to , the sensor  can form part of an apparatus for measuring the energy in a continuous wave (CW) laser beam by placing a chopper wheel  in front of the sensor . The chopper wheel  produces a chopped or pulsed beam  that is translated into acoustic sound by sensor  and the energy of the beam measured by the sensor . Without the chopper wheel  a continuous wave laser beam incident on the laser absorber  would cause a continuous build up in heat energy, but chopping the laser beam into fragments by chopper wheel  results in a cycle of heating and cooling of the laser absorber , similar to a pulsed laser, leading to the production of acoustic sound to be picked up by the microphones . It is preferred that the laser absorber  is a high damage threshold laser absorber as described herein.","The laser energy sensor  of the present invention is unique in the field of laser sensors. The sensor  potentially has a very low cost and high damage threshold compared to existing laser energy measurement technologies, such as thermopile and pyroelectric technologies.","In another aspect of the invention a method is provided for measuring laser energy in a laser energy beam, comprising the steps of: generating acoustic energy from a laser beam; and converting the acoustic energy into an energy measurement corresponding to the energy in the laser beam.","The invention being thus described, it will be evident that the same may be varied in many ways by a person of skill in the applicable arts. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
