---
title: Cryptographic data distribution and revocation for handheld medical devices
abstract: A method includes: receiving a revocation list from a remote data server at a configuration device. The revocation list includes N cryptographic certificates associated with N computer software entities, respectively, that are not to be executed by any of a group of medical devices including a handheld medical device. N is an integer greater than or equal to zero The method further includes receiving data from the handheld medical device at the configuration device. The data includes a cryptographic certificate that is associated with a given computer software entity that is presently installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device. The method further includes comparing the cryptographic certificate with the revocation list; and selectively executing a protective function by the configuration device when the cryptographic certificate is the same as one of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667293&OS=08667293&RS=08667293
owner: Roche Diagnostics Operations, Inc.
number: 08667293
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110811
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to handheld medical devices and more particularly to data distribution and revocation systems and methods for handheld medical devices.","Diabetes mellitus, often referred to as diabetes, is a chronic condition in which a person has elevated blood glucose levels that result from defects in the body's ability to produce and\/or use insulin. There are three main types of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes usually strikes children and young adults, and can be autoimmune, genetic, and\/or environmental. Type 2 diabetes accounts for 90-95% of diabetes cases and is linked to obesity and physical inactivity. Gestational diabetes is a form of glucose intolerance diagnosed during pregnancy and usually resolves spontaneously after delivery.","In 2009, according to the World Health Organization, at least 220 million people worldwide suffer from diabetes. In 2005, an estimated 1.1 million people died from diabetes. The incidence of diabetes is increasing rapidly, and it is estimated that between 2005 and 2030, the number of deaths from diabetes will double. In the United States, nearly 24 million Americans have diabetes with an estimated 25 percent of seniors age 60 and older being affected. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention forecast that 1 in 3 Americans born after 2000 will develop diabetes during their lifetime. The National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse estimates that diabetes costs $132 billion in the United States alone every year. Without treatment, diabetes can lead to severe complications such as heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney failure, amputations, and death related to pneumonia and flu.","Management of diabetes is complex because the level of blood glucose entering the bloodstream is dynamic. Variation of insulin in the bloodstream that controls the transport of glucose out of the bloodstream also complicates diabetes management. Blood glucose levels are sensitive to diet and exercise, but also can be affected by sleep, stress, smoking, travel, illness, menses, and other psychological and lifestyle factors that are unique to each patient. The dynamic nature of blood glucose and insulin, and all other factors affecting blood glucose, often require a person with diabetes to forecast blood glucose levels. Administration of insulin and\/or oral medications can be regulated and timed to maintain blood glucose levels within an appropriate range at all times.","Management of diabetes is often highly intrusive because of the need to consistently obtain reliable diagnostic information, follow prescribed therapy, and manage lifestyle on a daily basis. Diagnostic information, such blood glucose level, can be obtained from a capillary blood sample with a lancing device and a test strip. The blood glucose level is measured via the test strip using a handheld blood glucose meter. Interstitial glucose levels can be obtained from a continuous glucose sensor worn on the body.","A therapy regimen for a patient can be established based on one or more of the patient's blood glucose levels. The therapy regimen can include administration of insulin and\/or oral medication. Insulin can be administered with a syringe, an insulin pen, an ambulatory infusion pump, or a combination of two or more of the above. With insulin therapy, determining the amount of insulin to inject at a given time can require forecasting meal amount and composition (e.g., of fat, carbohydrates, and proteins, and amounts of each). Determining the amount of insulin to inject at a given time can also require consideration of the effects of exercise and physiologic state. The patient's management of lifestyle factors such as body weight, diet, and exercise can significantly influence the type and effectiveness of therapy.","Management of diabetes involves large amounts of diagnostic data and prescriptive data that are acquired from medical devices, personal health care devices, patient recorded information, health care professional tests results, prescribed medications and recorded information. Medical devices including self-monitoring bG meters, continuous glucose monitors, insulin infusion pumps, diabetes analysis software, and diabetes device configuration software each of which generates or manages or both large amounts of diagnostic and prescriptive data. Personal health care devices can include weights, scales, blood pressure cuffs, pedometers, other activity monitors, and other suitable devices. Patient recorded data can include information relating to meals, exercise, and lifestyle. Health care professional biomarker data can include HbA1C, cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting glucose, and glucose tolerance. Health care professional recorded information can include therapy and other patient-specific information.","Over time, a handheld medical device may become outdated. One or more updates to software executed by a handheld medical device may be desirable under some circumstances. Thus, there is a need for a system that provides the ability to update handheld medical devices. Additionally, there is a need for a system that provides the ability to update handheld medical devices securely.","The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors, to the extent it is described in this background section, as well as aspects of the description that cannot otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing, are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.","In a feature, a method of protecting a handheld medical device from executing a computer software entity installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device is provided. The method includes: receiving a revocation list from a remote data server at a configuration device. The revocation list includes N cryptographic certificates associated with N computer software entities, respectively, that are not to be executed by any of a group of medical devices including a handheld medical device. N is an integer greater than or equal to zero The method further includes receiving data from the handheld medical device at the configuration device. The data includes a cryptographic certificate that is associated with a given computer software entity that is presently installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device. The method further includes comparing the cryptographic certificate with the revocation list; and selectively executing a protective function by the configuration device when the cryptographic certificate is the same as one of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","In another feature, a method of regulating updatability of data stored in memory of a handheld medical device is provided. The method includes: receiving a revocation list from a first remote data server at a configuration device. The revocation list includes N cryptographic certificates associated with N handheld medical devices, respectively, that are to be denied access to data accessible via a second remote data server. N is an integer greater than or equal to zero. The method further includes receiving data from a handheld medical device at the configuration device. The data includes a cryptographic certificate that is associated with the handheld medical device. The method further includes comparing the cryptographic certificate with the revocation list; and selectively updating the handheld medical device with data from the second remote data server after a determination that the cryptographic certificate is not the same as any of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.","The following description is merely illustrative in nature and is in no way intended to limit the disclosure, its application, or uses. For purposes of clarity, the same reference numbers will be used in the drawings to identify similar elements. As used herein, the phrase at least one of A, B, and C should be construed to mean a logical (A or B or C), using a non-exclusive logical or. It should be understood that steps within a method can be executed in different order without altering the principles of the present disclosure.","Referring now to , a patient  with diabetes and a health care professional  are shown in a clinical environment. The patient  with diabetes can be diagnosed with a metabolic syndrome, pre-diabetes, type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes, etc. Healthcare providers for diabetes are diverse and include nurses, nurse practitioners, physicians, endocrinologists, and others and are collectively referred to as health care professionals.","During a health care consultation, the patient  typically shares with the health care professional  a variety of data including blood glucose (bG) measurements, continuous glucose monitor data, amounts and type of insulin administered, amounts of food and beverages consumed, exercise schedules, health status, and other lifestyle information. The health care professional  can obtain additional data for the patient , such as measurements of HbA1C, cholesterol levels, plasma glucose, triglycerides, blood pressure, and weight. The data can be recorded manually or electronically on a handheld diabetes management device  (e.g., a handheld bG monitor device), a diabetes analysis software executed on a personal computer (PC) , and\/or a web-based diabetes analysis site. The health care professional  can analyze the patient data manually or electronically using the diabetes analysis software and\/or the web-based diabetes analysis site. After analyzing the data and reviewing how efficacious previously prescribed therapy is and how well the patient  followed the previously prescribed therapy, the health care professional  can decide whether to modify a therapy prescribed for the patient .","Referring now to , the patient  can use a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) , an ambulatory durable insulin infusion pump  or an ambulatory non-durable insulin infusion pump  (collectively insulin pump ), and the diabetes management device . The CGM  can use a subcutaneous sensor to sense and monitor the amount of glucose (e.g., glucose concentration) of the patient . The CGM  communicates glucose measurements to the diabetes management device .","The diabetes management device  performs various tasks including measuring and recording bG measurements, determining an amount of insulin to be administered to the patient  via the insulin pump , receiving user input via a user interface, archiving data, performing structured bG tests, etc. The diabetes management device  can transmit instructions to the insulin pump , and the insulin pump  selectively delivers insulin to the patient . Insulin can be delivered in the form of a meal bolus dose, a correction bolus dose, a basal dose, etc.","Referring now to , a diabetes management system  is shown which can be used by the patient  and\/or the health care professional . The system  can include one or more of the following devices: the diabetes management device , the CGM , the insulin pump , a mobile device , the diabetes management software executed on the computer , and one or more other health care devices . The diabetes management device  can be configured as a system \u201chub\u201d and communicate with one or more of the other devices of the system . The insulin pump , the mobile device , or another suitable device can alternatively serve as the system hub. Communication between various devices in the system  can be performed using wireless interfaces (e.g., Bluetooth) and\/or wired interfaces (e.g., USB). Communication protocols used by these devices can include protocols compliant with the IEEE 11073 standard as extended using guidelines provided by Continua Health Alliance Design Guidelines. Further, health care records systems such as Microsoft HealthVault\u2122 and Google Health\u2122 can be used by the patient  and the health care professional  to exchange information.","The diabetes management software running on the computer  can include an analyzer-configurator that stores configuration information for devices of the system . For example only, the configurator has a database to store configuration information for the diabetes management device  and the other devices. A patient can interface the configurator through standard web based or computer graphical user interfaces (GUIs). The configurator selectively transmits patient-approved configurations to the devices of the system . The analyzer selectively retrieves data from the devices of the system , stores the data in a database, selectively analyzes the data, and outputs analysis results through standard web based or computer GUIs.","Referring now to , a high level illustration of an example embodiment of the diabetes management device  is presented. The diabetes management device  includes, among other things, a housing , user unit control switches (not specifically numbered), a touchscreen display , and a bG test strip port . The user unit control switches, for example, can include ON\/OFF switches, volume switches, alarm switches for bG testing and\/or insulin administration, and\/or one or more other switches or other types of control devices that a patient can use to control functions\/operations of the diabetes management device .","A bG test strip  can be inserted into the bG test strip port . The bG test strip  can be inserted into the bG test strip port  by a patient, from a test strip drum (not shown) located within the housing , or in another suitable manner. The bG test strip  is shown already inserted into the bG test strip port  in the example of  and not yet inserted into the bG test strip port  in the example of .","User selectable options  can be displayed on a portion of the display . The selectable options  can include a menu option , a bolus insulin option , a carbohydrate option , and an event option . One or more other user selectable options can additionally or alternatively be available. The patient can access a device menu for the diabetes management device  by selecting the menu option . The patient can input various insulin (and\/or other medication) information (e.g., amount, insulin type, etc.) by selecting the bolus insulin option . The patient can input various carbohydrate intake information (e.g., amount) by selecting the carbohydrate option . The patient can also input other food intake information (e.g., protein content, fat content, etc.) by selecting the carbohydrate option . The patient can input various event related information (e.g., meals, exercise, periods of stress, etc.) that can affect the patient's bG measurements by selecting the event option .","Although the display  is described herein as a touchscreen display, the diabetes management device  can include another suitable form of display (e.g., LED, etc.). If a touchscreen display is not used, the user control switches can include specific buttons or controls by which the patient is able to select various options and input markers needed to operate the diabetes management device .","The above description is a broad description of the diabetes management device . In practice, the diabetes management device  can include additional controls, input ports, output ports, etc., as can be desired to further enhance its utility or its use with other components and devices (e.g., computers, infusion pumps, cellular phones, etc.). The description of the diabetes management device  should not be taken as limiting as to the construction of the diabetes management device  or as to the features and capabilities of the diabetes management device .","As used herein, the term \u201cmodule\u201d can refer to, be part of, or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC); an electronic circuit; a combinational logic circuit; a field programmable gate array (FPGA); a processor (shared, dedicated, or group) that executes code; other suitable components that provide the described functionality; or a combination of some or all of the above, such as in a system-on-chip. The term \u201cmodule\u201d can include memory (shared, dedicated, or group) that stores code executed by the processor.","The term \u201ccode,\u201d as used above, can include software, firmware, and\/or microcode, and can refer to programs, routines, functions, classes, and\/or objects. The term \u201cshared,\u201d as used above, means that some or all code from multiple modules can be executed using a single (shared) processor. In addition, some or all code from multiple modules can be stored by a single (shared) memory. The term \u201cgroup,\u201d as used above, means that some or all code from a single module can be executed using a group of processors. In addition, some or all code from a single module can be stored using a group of memories.","The apparatuses and methods described herein can be implemented by one or more computer programs executed by one or more processors. The computer programs include processor-executable instructions that are stored on a non-transitory, tangible, computer readable medium. The computer programs can also include stored data. Examples of the non-transitory, tangible, computer readable medium include, but are not limited to, nonvolatile memory, magnetic storage, and optical storage.","Referring now to , a functional block diagram of the diabetes management device  is presented. While the present disclosure will be discussed in conjunction with the diabetes management device , the present disclosure is also applicable to other handheld medical devices, including insulin pumps, CGMs, and other types of handheld medical devices.","The diabetes management device  can include a processor module (e.g., a microprocessor based subsystem)  that can receive information from a bG measurement engine . The bG measurement engine  can be located adjacent the bG test strip port . The bG measurement engine  reads (measures) a bG level of the bG test strip  inserted into the bG test strip port . The bG measurement engine  can include a code key module  that includes pre-calibrated data for determining a bG level from the bG test strip . The bG test strip  may be provided from the test strip drum housing unused bG test strips within the diabetes management device .","The bG measurement engine  generates bG sample data  based on its reading of the bG test strip . Among other things, the bG sample data  includes data indicative of the bG level of a blood sample on the bG test strip . The processor module  can also receive bG sample data from other sources, such as via the CGM , the display , and\/or another suitable source. The processor module  can receive user input data via one or more user input\/output (I\/O) devices , such as the display , one or more buttons\/switches\/etc., and\/or one or more other user I\/O devices.","The bG measurement engine  can also generate the bG sample data  to indicate the date and time when the bG test strip  was read. In other words, the bG measurement engine  can include a time stamp with the bG sample data . In various implementations, the processor module  can selectively time stamp the bG sample data  and can time stamp user input data and other data when it is received.","A clock  can provide the date and time. The patient can configure the present date and time, and the clock  thereafter tracks the present date and time. In various implementations, the present date and time can be acquired from (e.g., synchronized with) the computer .","The diabetes management device  includes a datastore . For example only, the datastore  may include memory and\/or one or more other suitable tangible, computer readable mediums. Various data may be stored in the datastore . For example only, a computer software entity  is stored in the datastore . The computer software entity  may include, for example, firmware, software, variables, etc. The processor module  selectively executes portions of the computer software entity  to perform the functions of the diabetes management device .","The computer software entity  may be written to the datastore  before the diabetes management device  is released to the public. The computer software entity  may be updated after the diabetes management device  is released. The computer software entity  may be updated, for example, via software running on the computer  or via a remote data server (see also ).","Device data  may also be stored in the datastore . The device data  may include, for example, product type data, product version data, region data, a software certificate, a unique device identifier, a device\/user certificate, and other suitable device specific data. The product type data may indicate, for example, bG management device, insulin pump, CGM, etc. The product version data may indicate, for example, a version (or generation) of the diabetes management device , a model name\/number, etc. The software certificate may include, for example, a version or identifier of the computer software entity  and other suitable data. The software certificate is a cryptographic (digital) certificate. The software certificate may also be referred to as a code certificate. The unique device identifier may include data that is unique to the diabetes management device , such as a serial number or another suitable unique identifier. The device\/user certificate is a cryptographic (digital) certificate that is unique to the diabetes management device .","Cryptographic data  may also be stored in the datastore . The cryptographic data  may be used, for example, in encrypting messages transmitted by the diabetes management device  to another device, decrypting messages received by the diabetes management device  from another device, authentication, verification, and other cryptographic functions. For example only, the cryptographic data  may include one or more keys (e.g., public), one or more encryption algorithms, one or more decryption algorithms, and other suitable cryptographic data.","Referring now to , example implementations of a secure communication system  and a secure communication method  are presented. The secure communication system  includes a manager  and an agent . The manager  may communicate with one or more other agents, and the agent  may communicate with one or more other managers. Communication between the manager  and the agent  will be discussed, but the following discussion is applicable to communication between other managers and agents.","The manager  and the agent  may communicate, for example, in conjunction with the manager  updating data stored in memory of the agent . However, communication between the manager  and the agent  is performed according to a protocol to ensure that the communication is secure. The protocol may conform with the RSA Cryptography Standard according to RSA Laboratories Public Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) volume #1 or another suitable cryptographic protocol. The protocol may involve use of an SHA-2 (e.g., SHA-256) cryptographic hash algorithm, an SHA-3 cryptographic hash algorithm, or another suitable cryptographic hash algorithm.","Managers may each be attributed with one of a plurality of different roles. A manager serving as a role may be able to update predetermined types of data stored in the memory of the agent . Each different role may be associated with the ability to update different predetermined types of data. The ability to update different types of data may be based on the principle of least privilege. More specifically, a manager serving under a first role may be able to update a first set of types of data stored in the memory of the agent . A manager serving under a second role may be able to update the first set of types of data and, in addition, be able to update a second set of types of data stored in the memory of the agent . A manager serving under a third role may be able to update a third set of types of data in addition to the first and second sets of types and so on. Agents may be configured to accept updates only from managers serving under one or more of the plurality of roles.","The manager  has a public cryptographic key. The manager  also has a private cryptographic key. The private cryptographic key also include data regarding the public cryptographic key. The manager  cryptographically signs messages that it transmits to the agent  using the private key and an encryption algorithm. The agent  uses the public key and a decryption algorithm to verify that the signed message was sent by a trusted source (e.g., the manager ) and that the signed message not altered before receipt by the agent . The process of signing a message and verifying that the signed message was sent by a trusted source may be performed as part of an authentication procedure. The manager  and the agent  may perform authentication to ensure that communication between the manager  and the agent  is secure before the manager  can update data stored in the memory of the agent .","An example of authentication is illustrated by . The manager  may transmit an authentication request  to the agent  to initiate the authentication of secure communication between the manager  and the agent . The authentication request  may include, for example, the role of the manager , the public key, and\/or other suitable data. In various implementations, the authentication request  may be in the form of a digital certificate.","The agent  may determine whether the agent  is configured to accept updates from the role of the manager . If not, the agent  may transmit a predetermined error code to the manager  and terminate the authentication. If so, the agent  may generate an authentication challenge  and transmit the authentication challenge  to the manager . The agent  generates the authentication challenge  randomly. For example only, the agent  may generate the authentication challenge  randomly using a random number generator, such as a random number generator that complies with NIST Special Publication 800-90, titled Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators (March 2007).","The manager  digitally signs the authentication challenge  using the private key and transmits the signed authentication challenge to the agent  in the form of a challenge response . Based on the public key and the authentication challenge , the agent  determines whether the challenge response  is authentic. In other words, the agent  verifies the signature using the public key and the authentication challenge . The agent  notifies the manager  whether the authentication passed or failed via an authentication result .","If the authentication passed, the manager  may selectively update data stored in the memory of the agent . Authentication may also be performed between the manager  and a server (e.g., ) to ensure secure communication between the manager  and the server. Before the manager  creates or modifies a file to be uploaded to the agent , the manager  signs the file using the private key associated with its role. The manager  may sign the file using the private key, RSA, and the SHA-2 algorithm. The result of the signature is a signed hash of the data being signed. The private key associated with one or more of the roles may be ineligible for using to sign a file.","When the agent  receives a file from the manager , the agent  verifies the digital signature provided with the file. The manager  may notify the agent  which public key to use to verify the signature. The agent  may verify the file (or other incoming signed data, such as the challenge response ) by calling an application programming interface (API) used for verification. The agent  may provide the public key, the signed file, and the original data for the API. The algorithms to be used by the API may also be specified, and the algorithms may be, for example, RSA and the SHA-2 algorithm. The agent  may avoid using the transmitted data if the verification fails.","Referring now to , a functional block diagram of an example data distribution system is presented. Examples of the agent  may be the diabetes management device , the insulin pump , the CGM , the mobile device , and other handheld medical devices. An examples of the manager  may be a configuration device . For example only, the configuration device  may include an application (e.g., software) executed on a computer, such as the computer . The computer software entity  stored in the datastore  of the diabetes management device  may be updated. The computer software entity  may be updated in response to a user input request to update the computer software entity  when the diabetes management device  is connected to the configuration device . A user can input such a request to the configuration device  or the diabetes management device . In various implementations, the computer software entity  may be updated automatically when the diabetes management device  and the configuration device  are connected. The connection may be wired or wireless.","To update the computer software entity , the configuration device  may replace one or more portions of the computer software entity  or replace the computer software entity  with another computer software entity. The configuration device  updates the computer software entity  with data downloaded from a data distribution server .","Before updating the computer software entity , the configuration device  may obtain the device\/user certificate from the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may verify that the diabetes management device  is registered and authorized to be updated. In various implementations, the authentication\/verification may be performed via communication between the configuration device  and an authentication server . The authentication server  may be different than the data distribution server .","The device\/user certificate may include an expiration. If the device\/user certificate has previously expired, the configuration device  may not allow the computer software entity  to be updated. The configuration device  may also receive a first certificate revocation list (CRL) from the authentication server . A CRL may also be referred to as a revocation list.","The first CRL may include a list of non-expired device\/user certificates that are ineligible to receive data via the data distribution server . The first CRL may also include expired device\/user certificates that are ineligible to receive data via the data distribution server . If the device\/user certificate of the diabetes management device  is on the first CRL (e.g., the same as one of the device\/user certificates in the first CRL), the configuration device  may not allow the computer software entity  to be updated. If the device\/user certificate is not on the first CRL, the configuration device  may update the diabetes management device  based on data from the data distribution server .","The configuration device  may also perform one or more actions when the device\/user certificate of the diabetes management device  is on the first CRL. For example only, the configuration device  may attempt to obtain a new (non-expired) device\/user certificate for the diabetes management device , display an indication that the diabetes management device  is not eligible for updating (e.g., via a display of the configuration device  and\/or a display of the diabetes management device ), and\/or perform one or more other suitable actions.","Data for updating authorized and registered handheld medical devices including the diabetes management device  may be stored in a database . The database  can be accessed by the data distribution server . Device specific data for each authorized and registered handheld medical device may also be stored in the database . For example only, each time the diabetes management device  is updated, data for the diabetes management device  stored in the database  is updated such that the database  includes data indicative of the last known characteristics of each handheld medical device.","The configuration device  may selectively obtain software data from the data distribution server  for the diabetes management device . The software data from the data distribution server  indicates a current computer software entity that the database  has record of as being installed and executed by the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may also obtain the software certificate from the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may compare the version data obtained from the data distribution server  with the version data indicated within the software certificate obtained from the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may notify the data distribution server  if the two differ. If the version data is different, the configuration device  may perform one or more protective actions. Example protective actions are discussed further below.","The configuration device  may also obtain a second CRL from the data distribution server . The second CRL may include a list of computer software entities that are not to be executed by any of a group of handheld medical devices including the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may determine whether the software certificate for the computer software entity  is in the second CRL.","If the software certificate for the computer software entity  is in the second CRL, the configuration device  may perform one or more protective actions. For example only, the configuration device  may prevent the processor module  from executing the computer software entity  in the future. The configuration device  may prevent the processor module  from executing the computer software entity , for example, by changing the state of a flag or other indicator that the processor module  checks before executing any portion of the computer software entity . For another example only, the configuration device  may display a predetermined message on the display of the diabetes management device  and\/or the configuration device . For yet another example only, the configuration device  may prompt a user to input an acknowledgement. For another example only, the configuration device  may update the computer software entity  based on another computer software entity associated with a software certificate that is not in the second CRL.","The configuration device  may receive data indicating possible upgrades that are available for the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may display the possible upgrades for selection by a user. The configuration device  may display the possible upgrades via the display of the diabetes management device  and\/or the display of the computer .","A user may select one or more of the possible updates. The configuration device  may update data stored in the datastore  of the diabetes management device  based on the selected possible updates. For example only, the configuration device  may update the computer software entity  based on a selected computer software entity. The configuration device  may also perform an authentication to verify that the user is eligible to update the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may refrain from updating the diabetes management device  if the user is not eligible to update the diabetes management device . After an update, the processor module  executes the selected computer software entity to control the functionality of the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may update the device data , the cryptography data , and\/or other suitable data to reflect the update.","After updating the diabetes management device , the configuration device  requests the data distribution server  update the data stored in the database  for the diabetes management device  to reflect the update to the diabetes management device . In this manner, the data stored in the database  for the diabetes management device  reflects the present state of the computer software entity  installed on the diabetes management device  for execution by the diabetes management device .","Referring now to , an example method of regulating distribution of data to handheld medical devices is presented. The configuration device  may query  the diabetes management device  for device data stored in the data store  of the diabetes management device . For example only, the configuration device  may query the diabetes management device  for the device\/user certificate and the software certificate of the diabetes management device . The configuration device  may generate the query  in response to an update request (not shown), automatically at a time when the diabetes management device  is connected to the configuration device , or at another suitable time. The diabetes management device  transmits device data  to the configuration device  in response to the query .","The configuration device  may transmit an authentication request  to the authentication server . The configuration device  may transmit the authentication request , for example, in conjunction with authenticating the device\/user certificate and verifying that the diabetes management device  is eligible to receive updates from the data distribution server . The configuration device  may transmit the authentication request  or another authentication request, for example, in conjunction with authenticating a user of the configuration device  and verifying that the user is eligible to update the diabetes management device  and\/or the type of data that is to be updated. The authentication server  may transmit an authentication response  based on a result of the authentication and verification. In various implementations, the authentication server  may transmit the necessary data to the configuration device  for the configuration device  to perform the authentication and verification, or the necessary data may be previously stored in memory of the configuration device . The authentication response  may indicate whether the authentication and verification passed or failed.","The authentication server  may also transmit the first CRL  to the configuration device  in response to the authentication request . The configuration device  compares the device\/user certificate with the first CRL . If the device\/user certificate is in the first CRL , the configuration device  may take one or more revoked certificate actions .","If the device\/user certificate is not on the first CRL , the configuration device  may transmit a latest info query  to the data distribution server . The latest info query  may request the latest data that is stored in the database  for the diabetes management device . More specifically, the latest info query  may request the latest information that is stored in the database  regarding a computer software entity stored in the datastore  of the diabetes management device .","The data distribution server  retrieves latest device info  in response to the request and transmits the latest device info  to the configuration device . The data distribution server  also transmits the second CRL  to the configuration device . The configuration device  may transmit a notification (not shown) to the data distribution server  if the computer software entity  stored in the datastore  is different than the computer software entity indicated via the last device info .","The configuration device  compares the software certificate stored in the datastore  of the diabetes management device  with the second CRL . If the software certificate is in the second CRL , the configuration device  may take one or more protective actions , such as updating the computer software entity  based on another computer software entity. Once completed, the diabetes management device  may transmit a result  of the one or more protective actions  to the configuration device . The configuration device  may transmit a result update  to the data distribution server . The result update  may indicate the result  of the one or more protective actions . The data distribution server  may update the data stored in the database  for the diabetes management device  based on the result. The data distribution server  may transmit a confirmation  to the configuration device  when the data stored in the database  has been updated.","If the software certificate is not in the second CRL , the configuration device  may selectively transmit a software update request  to the data distribution server . The software update request  may indicate data (e.g., a computer software entity or update) to be stored to the datastore  of the diabetes management device . The data distribution server  may retrieve the indicated data from the database  in response to the request. The data distribution server  may transmit the retrieved data  for updating the diabetes management device  to the configuration device .","The configuration device  may update  the diabetes management device  based on the data . More specifically, the configuration device  may load the data  into the datastore  of the diabetes management device . The processor module  can then execute the data  to control the operation of the diabetes management device .","Once completed, the diabetes management device  may transmit a result  of the updating to the configuration device . The result  may indicate, for example, whether the updating was successful. The configuration device  may transmit a result update  to the data distribution server . The result update  may indicate the result  of the updating. The data distribution server  may update the data stored in the database  for the diabetes management device  based on the result update . The data distribution server  may transmit a confirmation  to the configuration device  when the data stored in the database  has been updated.","A method of protecting a handheld medical device from executing a computer software entity installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device, comprises: receiving a revocation list from a remote data server at a configuration device, the revocation list including N cryptographic certificates associated with N computer software entities, respectively, that are not to be executed by any of a group of medical devices including a handheld medical device, wherein N is an integer greater than or equal to zero; receiving data from the handheld medical device at the configuration device, the data including a cryptographic certificate that is associated with a given computer software entity that is presently installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device; comparing the cryptographic certificate with the revocation list; and selectively executing a protective function by the configuration device when the cryptographic certificate is the same as one of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","In other features, the protective function includes disabling the given computer software entity from execution by the handheld medical device.","In still other features, the handheld medical device includes a handheld blood glucose management device.","In further features, the protective function includes displaying a predetermined message on a display of the handheld medical device.","In still further features, the protective function further includes prompting a user to input an acknowledgement.","In other features, the protective function includes uploading a second computer software entity to the memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device, and the second computer software entity is different than the given computer software entity.","In still other features, the method further comprises: receiving device data at the configuration device, the device data including an identifier of the handheld medical device; and selecting the second computer software entity from a plurality of computer software entities based on the identifier.","In further features, the method further comprises verifying that the second computer software entity is not the same as one of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","A method of regulating updatability of data stored in memory of a handheld medical device, comprises: receiving a revocation list from a first remote data server at a configuration device, the revocation list including N cryptographic certificates associated with N handheld medical devices, respectively, that are to be denied access to data accessible via a second remote data server, wherein N is an integer greater than or equal to zero; receiving data from a handheld medical device at the configuration device, the data including a cryptographic certificate that is associated with the handheld medical device; comparing the cryptographic certificate with the revocation list; and selectively updating the handheld medical device with data from the second remote data server after a determination that the cryptographic certificate is not the same as any of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","In other features, the first and second remote data servers are different.","In still other features, the method further comprises, after the determination that the cryptographic certificate is not the same as any of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list: receiving a second revocation list from the second remote data server at a configuration device, the second revocation list including M cryptographic certificates associated with M computer software entities, respectively, that are not to be executed by any of a group of medical devices including the handheld medical device, wherein M is an integer greater than or equal to zero, and wherein the data further includes a second cryptographic certificate that is associated with a given computer software entity that is presently installed in memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device; and comparing the second cryptographic certificate with the second revocation list.","In further features, the method further comprises selectively performing a protective function by the configuration device in response to a determination that the second cryptographic certificate is the same as one of the M cryptographic certificates in the second revocation list.","In still further features, the protective function includes disabling the given computer software entity from execution by the handheld medical device.","In other features, the protective function includes displaying a predetermined message on a display of the handheld medical device.","In still other features, the protective function further includes prompting a user to input an acknowledgement.","In further features, the protective function includes uploading a second computer software entity to the memory of the handheld medical device for execution by the handheld medical device, and the second computer software entity is different than the given computer software entity.","In still further features, the method further comprises selecting the second computer software entity from a plurality of computer software entities based on the handheld medical device.","In other features, the method further comprises verifying that the second computer software entity is not the same as any of the M cryptographic certificates of the second revocation list.","In still other features, the method further comprises avoiding updating the handheld medical device after a determination that the cryptographic certificate is the same as one of the N cryptographic certificates of the revocation list.","In further features, the handheld medical device includes a handheld blood glucose management device.","The broad teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore, while this disclosure includes particular examples, the true scope of the disclosure should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings, the specification, and the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure will become more fully understood from the detailed description and the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
