---
title: Aggregation of operational data for merchandizing of network accessible services
abstract: An electronic service image marketplace for service images is provided that permits users to browse descriptions of service images implementing desired functionalities of a virtual machine image. The described service images may be further offered for purchase through the electronic service image marketplace. An operational data service, in communication with the electronic service image marketplace, may collect operational data from a plurality of host computing devices executing the selected service image. The operational data service may further analyze the collected operational data to obtain an aggregate measure of operational data for the selected service image when executed by host computing devices. The analyzed operational data may be further provided to the electronic service image marketplace for display within the description of the selected service image. Notifications may be further provided to a user of a selected service image based upon a comparison of the analyzed operational data to operational data of the selected service image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626700&OS=09626700&RS=09626700
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09626700
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Generally described, computing devices utilize a communication network, or a series of communication networks, to exchange data. Companies and organizations operate computer networks that interconnect a number of computing devices to support operations or provide services to third parties. The computing systems can be located in a single geographic location or located in multiple, distinct geographic locations (e.g., interconnected via private or public communication networks). Specifically, data centers or data processing centers, herein generally referred to as \u201cdata centers,\u201d may include a number of interconnected computing systems to provide computing resources to users of the data center. The data centers may be private data centers operated on behalf of an organization or public data centers operated on behalf, or for the benefit, of the general public.","To facilitate increased utilization of data center resources, virtualization technologies allow a single physical computing device to host one or more instances of a virtual machine, which virtual machine instance appears to a user of a data center as an independent computing device. With virtualization, the host computing device can create, maintain, delete, or otherwise manage virtual machines instances in a dynamic manner. In turn, users can request computing resources from the data center, including single computing devices or a configuration of networked computing devices, and be provided with virtual machine instances that provide the requested computing resources.","An instance of a virtual machine may be configured to provide specific functionality. For example, a virtual machine instance may be associated with different combinations of software applications and operating systems or operating system configurations to enable a virtual machine to provide different desired functionalities, or to provide similar functionalities more efficiently. One or more virtual machine instance types are often contained within a service image, which a host computing device may execute in order to implement the desired specific functionality of the virtual machine instance.","In one embodiment, the service image, when executed by virtual machine instance, provides a network accessible service (a.k.a. Web service) corresponding to the software applications\/configurations included in the service image. A network accessible service provides specific functionality to other applications and computing resources via a network through application programming interfaces (APIs), which APIs can also be considered a network accessible service or Web service. For example, a service image, when executed, may provide a network accessible database or mass storage service. Once a service image is created, it can be provided to users interested in utilizing the applications and computing resources available from a data center for specific purposes.","However, different service images may also be provided that utilize different applications and\/or computing resources for accomplishing the same purpose (e.g., a database). Therefore, it may be difficult for a user to determine which service image may be appropriate for their specific purpose.","Generally described, aspects of the present disclosure relate to providing an electronic service image marketplace for service images. More specifically, an electronic service image marketplace is provided that permits users to browse descriptions of service images implementing desired functionalities of a virtual machine image. The described service images may be further offered for purchase through the electronic service image marketplace and executed within a hosted computing environment associated with the electronic service image marketplace.","As discussed in greater detail below, embodiments of the electronic service image marketplace may include an operational data service. The operational data service may collect operational data from a plurality of host computing devices executing the selected service image. The operational data service may further analyze the collected operational data to obtain an aggregate measure of the operational data for the selected service image when executed by host computing devices. The analyzed operational data may be further displayed by the electronic service image marketplace within the description of the selected service image. In this manner, the displayed operational data may be employed by a user of the electronic service image marketplace for making decisions regarding service image purchases.","Embodiments of the present disclosure further relate to providing notifications to users of selected service images executed within the hosted computing environment. The notifications may be based upon a comparison of operational data measured for the selected service images and aggregate operational data measured for the corresponding service images. A notification may alert a user that the operational data measured for their executed service image does not conform to aggregate operational data for corresponding service images. The notifications may further enable the user to modify operational data parameters so as to bring the operational data of the selected service image into conformance with the aggregate operational data.","In alternative embodiments, notifications may also be transmitted to service image providers regarding the service images that they have submitted to the electronic marketplace. For example, provider notifications may include information that is not proprietary to customers who have acquired and executed the service image. Rather, the provider notifications may include information such as the aggregate parameter values measured by the operational data service. Notifications may also include aggregated information regarding customer notifications. Examples of such information may include a number of notifications transmitted regarding a selected service image (absolute or per occurrence of the service image), the purpose for the notification, and the like.","Embodiments discussed below may refer to the users of an electronic service image marketplace for service images as customers. However, it may be understood that users are not limited to customers but may include owners, administrators, end users and providers of service images purchased from the electronic service image marketplace.","Embodiments of an electronic service image marketplace for service images may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/248,227, filed on Sep. 29, 2011, and entitled, \u201cElectronic Marketplace for Hosted Service Images,\u201d (the '227 application) the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In brief, the electronic service image marketplace may provide an environment with which both providers and customers of service images can interact via a network. In one embodiment, a provider may submit a service image to the electronic service image marketplace for inclusion in an electronic catalog. The provider may submit additional information corresponding to the service image that would be useful to a customer, such as pricing information, usage conditions, a location of a provider hosted computing environment on which the service image can be hosted, or other information.","Customers may employ a user computing device to browse the electronic catalog by interaction with various user interfaces generated by the electronic service image marketplace, described in greater detail below. Upon identifying a service image of interest, the customer may view details of each service image in the electronic catalog, such as the information submitted by the provider of the service image. In some embodiments, a customer may view further information associated with a service image, such as usage statistics by other electronic service image marketplace customers of the service image, reviews by other customers, or recommendations for similar or complementary service images. Accordingly, service images may be surfaced to customers in a variety of ways by the electronic service image marketplace, such as by navigation through a browse tree of services organized by function, type, size, etc. or through recommendations, reviews, etc.","Once a customer selects a service image from the electronic service image marketplace, the customer may purchase or otherwise acquire the service from the electronic service image marketplace. In some embodiments, the customer may be required to submit payment information for the service image prior to launch of the service image. After acquisition of the service image by the customer, the service image may be launched and executed by one or more hosted computing environments. The hosted computing environment may be provided by an operator of the electronic service image marketplace or may be otherwise associated with the electronic service image marketplace. In some embodiments, the third party provider of the acquired service image may provide a hosted computing environment for the service image acquired by the customer via the electronic service image marketplace.","Once the service image is launched and running on a hosted computing environment, the electronic service image marketplace can monitor the usage of functionality or services provided by service image and bill the customer\/pay the provider accordingly. Moreover, the electronic service image marketplace may provide the customer with tools to manage, monitor, modify, etc. the service image.","In according with embodiments of the present disclosure, the electronic service image marketplace may be in further communication with and\/or include an operational data service. The operational data service may maintain operational data associated with a selected service image. In certain embodiments, the operational data service may maintain operational data associated with at least a portion of the service images available from the electronic service image marketplace. The operational data service may further provide one or more of the maintained operational data to the electronic service image marketplace for inclusion in the electronic catalog.","In an embodiment, the operational data may be any data pertaining to a host computer executing the selected service image and\/or the virtual instances within the selected service image. Examples of the operational data may include, but are not limited to, a quality of service of the selected service image executed on a respective host computing device, resources utilized by the host computing device executing the selected service image, parameters regarding the virtual machine instance type of the selected service image, and the like.","In further embodiments, the operational data may be to any data regarding perception of the selected service image and\/or functionality of the selected service image. Examples may include, but are not limited to, user reviews, recommendations, and the like.","In an embodiment, the operational data service may be in communication with one or more hosted computing environments including a host computing devices executing a selected service image. The operational data service may receive operational data for the selected service image from respective host computers executing the selected service image. In alternative embodiments, the operational data service may request operational data from host computers executing the selected service. The operational data service may further analyze and store any operational data received from the respective host computing devices (e.g., storage in the electronic catalog).","For example, as discussed in greater detail below, for a selected service image, the operational data service may continuously receive and analyze operational data from host computers executing the selected service image. The operational data may be further stored in the electronic catalog. When a customer requests details regarding a service image, at least a portion of the analyzed operational data may be displayed to the customer, along with other information regarding the service image.","It may be understood that, in certain embodiments, the operational data service does not access data generated by the selected service image executed by respective host computing devices. This data is considered to be proprietary and confidential to the electronic service image marketplace customers and\/or providers and would not be accessed by the operational data service. In alternative embodiments, access to data generated by the selected service image by the operational data service may be governed by an End User License Agreement (EULA) between an operator of the electronic service image marketplace and the customer and\/or provider. Rather, the operational data service collects data that is available to host computing devices that execute the selected service images, which does not pertain to any confidential or proprietary customer data generated during execution of the selected service image.","In an embodiment, each type of operational data collected by the operational data service may be independently analyzed in order to determine one or more parameters representative of the type of operational data when executed by a host computing device. In certain embodiments, the operational data service may perform analysis continuously as new operational data is received. In further embodiments, the analysis may be performed on the collected operational data, in aggregate (e.g., a statistical analysis).","For example, continue the example above, where the type of operational data collected is the number of instances within the selected service image executed by a host computing device. Further assume that the collected operational data, in aggregate, follows a normal distribution. From the collected operational data, number of instances within the service image over the range of one standard deviation 1\u03c3 from the mean number of instances within the selected service image may be determined.","The analysis performed by the operational data service may further include generating an estimate of a total cost of operation (TCO) of the selected service image. For example, the operational data service may determine from the collected, analyzed operational data that the selected service image, on aggregate, includes a specific software application, is operated within an instance type of a certain size, and employs certain resources of the host computing device (e.g., CPU utilization, I\/O utilization, bandwidth, etc.). The cost of each of these operational data, as well as any other operational data of interest, may be summed to provide the TCO for the selected service image. In certain embodiments, the TCO may be provided on a selected basis, such as time (e.g., TCO\/hr).","The operational data service may further provide the analyzed operational data to the electronic service image marketplace for display in the electronic catalog. In one embodiment, the operational data service may store the analyzed operational data in the electronic catalog or other storage device the as values to be included in a display generated by the electronic service image marketplace.","This obtained parameter may be compared to the same parameter as analyzed by the operational data service, in aggregate, for the selected service image. If the obtained parameter for the user is not in conformance with the analyzed parameter value, the operational data service may provide the user with a notification. As discussed in greater detail below, the notification may advise the user that their operational data requires adjustment. In one aspect, a measured operational data value may be higher than needed for execution of the service image. Thus, the user may benefit from lower cost of operation if the operational data value were lowered. In another aspect, a measured operational data value may be lower than needed for execution of the service image. Thus, the user may benefit from improved performance if the operational data value were raised.","Further continuing the example above, assume that the operational data value is the number of instances within the selected service image of the user (e.g., ). Further assume that the operational data service has determined that the number of instances within service images within 1\u03c3 of the mean is 2-5. Therefore, the user may be advised through a notification that they could consider reducing the number of instances within their service image by 2-5.","In alternative embodiments, the operational data service may also generate aggregate information regarding service images. For example, the operational data service may determine how many total notifications are generated for the selected service image, how many notifications are generated for the selected service image that pertain to the same reason for generating the notification (e.g., a same operational data parameter that is out of conformance with an aggregate value of the data parameter), etc.","Notifications may also be provided to service image providers for their submitted service images based upon the aggregated data parameters for the service image generated by the operational data service. For example, one or more aggregate data parameters and\/or aggregate notification data may be provided to the service image provider. Beneficially, the service image provider may employ this information when determining best practices for executing service images.","With reference to , a block diagram depicting an illustrative operating environment is shown which includes an electronic service image marketplace  that enables customers to browse descriptions of service images including operational data regarding the service images. The electronic service image marketplace  may further enable customers to acquire service images made available in the electronic service image marketplace  by third party providers or the operator of the electronic service image marketplace . Acquired service images may be executed within a hosted computing environment, as discussed in greater detail below.","As illustrated in , the operating environment includes one or more provider computing devices  and one or more customer computing devices  in communication with an electronic service image marketplace  via a network . A third party provider, using a provider computing device , may submit via the network  a service image for a specific type of functionality to the electronic service image marketplace . The electronic service image marketplace may make the submitted service image, as well as other service images submitted to the electronic service image marketplace , available to customers.","Accordingly, a customer, using his or her customer computing device , may communicate with the electronic service image marketplace  regarding service images made available by the electronic service image marketplace . In one embodiment a customer may communicate with the electronic service image marketplace in order to browse descriptions of service images made available by the electronic service image marketplace . As discussed in greater detail below, the descriptions may include information regarding operational data of the respective service images. In another embodiment, a customer may communicate with the electronic service image marketplace  in order to acquire a desired service image. In a further embodiment, a customer may communicate with the electronic service image marketplace  in order to launch a service image acquired from a marketplace hosted computing environment  operated, maintained, provided or otherwise associated with the operator of the electronic service image marketplace . In alternative embodiments, where an acquired service image was submitted to the electronic service image marketplace  by a third party provider, the acquired service image may be launched in a provider hosted computing environment  that is operated, maintained, provided or otherwise associated with the third party provider.","A hosted computing environment (e.g., marketplace hosted computing environment , provider hosted computing environment ) may include a collection of rapidly provisioned and released computing resources hosted in connection with the electronic service image marketplace  or a third party provider. Such computing resources may be referred to, individually, as host computing devices. The computing resources may further include a number of computing, networking and storage devices in communication with one another. In some embodiments, the computing devices may correspond to physical computing devices. In other embodiments, the computing devices may correspond to virtual machine instances implemented by one or more physical computing devices. In still other embodiments, computing devices may correspond to both virtual computing devices and physical computing devices. One example of a hosted computing environment is given in U.S. Pat. No. 7,865,586, issued on Jan. 4, 2011 and entitled \u201cConfiguring Communications Between Computing Nodes\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.","The provider computing devices  and the customer computing devices  may communicate with the electronic service image marketplace  via a network . The provider computing device  or customer computing device  may be any computing device, such as personal computer (PC), kiosk, thin client, home computer, and dedicated or embedded machine. Further examples may include a laptop or tablet computers, servers, personal digital assistant (PDA), hybrid PDA\/mobile phones, mobile phones, electronic book readers, set-top boxes, cameras, digital media players, and the like.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the network  may be any wired network, wireless network, or combination thereof. In addition, the network  may be a personal area network, local area network, wide area network, cable network, satellite network, cellular telephone network, or combination thereof. In the illustrated embodiment, the network  is the Internet. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus, need not be described in more detail herein.","The electronic service image marketplace  is illustrated in  operating in a distributed computing environment comprising several computer systems that are interconnected using one or more networks. More specifically, the electronic service image marketplace  may include a marketplace server , a usage monitoring server , an electronic catalog , a billing server , and an operational data service , discussed in greater detail below. However, it may be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the electronic service image marketplace may have fewer or greater components than are illustrated in , In addition, the electronic service image marketplace  could include various Web services and\/or peer-to-peer network configurations. Thus, the depiction of the electronic service image marketplace  in  should be taken as illustrative and not limiting to the present disclosure.","Any one or more of the marketplace server  the usage monitoring server , the electronic catalog , the billing server , and the operational data service  may be embodied in a plurality of components, each executing an instance of the respective marketplace server , usage monitoring server , electronic catalog , billing server , and operational data service . A server or other computing component implementing any one of the marketplace server , the usage monitoring server , the electronic catalog , the billing server , and the operational data service  may include a network interface, memory, processing unit, and computer readable medium drive, all of which may communicate which each other may way of a communication bus. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network  and\/or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the respective marketplace server , usage monitoring server , electronic catalog , billing server , and operational data service . The memory may generally include RAM, ROM, and\/or other persistent and auxiliary memory.","With further reference to , illustrative components of the electronic service image marketplace  will now be discussed. The marketplace server  may facilitate network submission by third party providers, and browsing and acquisition by customers, of service images in the electronic service image marketplace . Accordingly, a provider, utilizing a provider computing device , may submit on or more service images to the electronic service image marketplace  via the marketplace server . The submitted service images may then be included in an electronic catalog . Embodiments of processes by which a provider, utilizing a provider computing device , may submit a service image to the electronic service image marketplace  are described in greater detail in the '227 application.","The electronic catalog  may include information on service images available from a plurality of providers and on service images made available by the operator of the electronic service image marketplace . Accordingly, the marketplace server  may obtain service image information for service images offered by a plurality of providers and the marketplace  and make the service images available to a customer from a single network resource, such as a Web site. A customer may then acquire the service image from the electronic service image marketplace  and launch the service image in a hosted computing environment (e.g., the marketplace hosted computing environment  or the provider hosted computing environment ) in a single interaction or order placed with the electronic service image marketplace . Beneficially, this eliminates the need for the customer to develop his or her own service image; or research, search or otherwise investigate multiple different providers or other sources for the service image. The electronic catalog may be a catalog containing information regarding both items (such as goods and services) and service images, or may be separate catalogs, with one catalog containing information regarding items and the other catalog containing information regarding services images, without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.","Illustratively, marketplace server  may generate one or more user interfaces through which a customer, utilizing a customer computing device , may browse service images made available by the electronic service image marketplace , submit queries for matching service images, and view information and details regarding specific service images. Embodiments of processes by which a customer, using his or her customer computing device , may query the electronic service image marketplace , and by which the marketplace server  may generate a user interface, may be found in the '227 application.","In an embodiment, the information and details regarding a selected service image of interest may include selected operational data for the selected service image determined by the operational data service . As discussed in greater detail below, in one embodiment, the operational data service  may collect operational data from one or more host computers executing the selected service image. The collected operational data may be further analyzed, in aggregate, to determine operational data parameters that are generally representative of operational data for the selected service image. The operational data service  may provide one or more of these operational data parameters to the marketplace server  for display in one or more of the generated user interfaces.","The operational data service  may further generate notifications regarding a selected, executed service image of a customer. As further described in detail below, the operational data service may compare one or more current operational data to the analyzed operational data parameters. If the currently measured operational data for the selected service image does not conform to the analyzed operational data parameters, the operational data service  may generate a notification to the customer advising them of this discrepancy.","The operational data service  may also generate one or more notifications for third-party providers. In one aspect, notifications may be based upon the generated aggregate data. In further embodiments, notifications generated for customers may be further aggregated by the operational data service  to generate notifications for the provider. For example, the operational data service  may analyze notifications for a selected service image and identify selected information therefrom. Examples may include, but are not limited to, number of total notifications, number of notifications having the same reason for being generated, etc.","After the customer selects a desired service image from the electronic service image marketplace , the marketplace server  may facilitate the configuration and acquisition of the service image and cause the launching of the service image on a hosted computing environment. In this regard, the marketplace server  may receive payment information from the customer computing device , as well as information specifying how the service image should be implemented by a hosted computing environment. In some embodiments, the customer may select a specific hosted computing environment to host the selected service image. The specific hosted computing environment may correspond, for example, to the marketplace hosted computing environment  associated with the electronic service image marketplace , or to a provider hosted computing environment  which is associated with the provider of the service image.","Once the service image is launched and running on a hosted computing environment, the electronic service image marketplace  can monitor the usage of functionality or services provided by service image and bill the customer\/pay the provider accordingly via the usage monitoring server  and the billing server , respectively. Moreover, the electronic service image marketplace  may provide the customer with tools to manage, monitor, modify, etc. the service image. In the illustrated example, the usage monitoring server  may be in communication with the marketplace hosted computing environment , and is operable to track a usage of the functionality (e.g., Web service) provided by the executed service image. This configuration may be beneficial, for example, where pricing of the service image is dependent on usage of the Web services produced by the service image when executed.","The billing server , on the other hand, may be provided to process payments from customers and, in some embodiments, provide payment to the providers of acquired service images. The billing server  may receive and provide payment information via interaction with the marketplace server . In some embodiments, the billing server  may alternatively receive and provide payment information via other processes, such as via an additional server, via telephonic interaction, or other mechanisms.","With reference to , illustrative components of the operational data service  for use in providing aggregate operational data for selected service images executed on a host computing device and notifications regarding selected service images of a customer based upon the aggregate operational data will now be addressed. The operational data service  may include a collection component , an analysis component , and a notification component .","The collection component  may communicate with host computing devices within hosted computing environments (e.g., marketplace hosted computing environment  and\/or provider hosted computing environment ) to collect operational data for a selected service image executed on respective host computing devices. As discussed above, unless authorized by a customer and\/or provider, the operational data service does not access any data generated by the selected service images executed by respective host computing devices, Rather, the operational data service collects data regarding the operation of the host computing devices themselves during execution of the selected service image and\/or parameters under which the selected service image is executed by respective host computing devices. This operational data does not pertain to any proprietary or confidential customer data generated during execution of the selected service image and, therefore, collection of this operational data does not in any way breach the customer's privacy.","In an embodiment, the operational data for the selected service image may include quality of service of the selected service image. Examples may include, but are not limited to, a percentage of time that the selected service image is operating and\/or available to a customer as a function of a selected time duration (i.e., \u201cuptime\u201d), a percentage of time that the selected instance is not operating and\/or not available to the user as a function of a selected time duration (i.e., \u201cdowntime\u201d), latency, and other quality of service parameters as understood by one of skill in the art of computing services.","In another embodiment, the operational data for the selected service image may include one or more resources employed by the host computing device executing the selected service image. Examples of such resources may include, but are not limited to, bandwidth, CPU utilization, volatile memory utilization of the host computing device, non-volatile memory utilization, input\/output (I\/O) devices, utilization of the I\/O devices, and the like.","In another embodiment, the operational data for the selected service image may include parameters regarding a virtual machine instance type of the selected service image. Examples of the virtual machine instance type may include, but are not limited to, combinations of operating systems or operating system configurations within virtual images of the selected service image, virtualized hardware resources employed by the virtual images of the selected service image (e.g., CPU, volatile and non-volatile memory, I\/O devices, etc.), software applications employed by the virtual images of the selected service image (e.g., the software application itself, the version of the software application, etc.), number of virtual instances contained within the selected service image, load balancing across multiple virtual instances contained within the selected service image, and the like.","In one embodiment, operational data for the selected service image may be collected by the collection component  from selected host computing devices within a hosted computing environment that are known to execute the selected service image. In one embodiment, the collection component  may collect the operational data for the selected service image from all host computing devices within a designated hosted computing environment. In another embodiment, the collection component  may collect the operational data for the selected service image from a selected number of host computing devices and\/or selected ones of host computing devices within a designated hosted computing environment. In further embodiments, operational data for the selected service image may be obtained by the collection component from operational data stored in a data storage device in communication with the collection component  (e.g., a cache).","In another embodiment, one or more specific types of operational data may be selected for collection by the collection service . For example, the type or types of operational data collected by the collection service  may be selected by an operator of the electronic service image marketplace . In an alternative embodiment, the types of operational data collected by the collection service  may be determined by programmed logic. In one aspect, service images available from the electronic service image marketplace  may be designated by a classification. In another aspect, one or more specific types of operational data may be selected for a service image classification. For example, specific types of operational data collected in the case of service images classified as databases may include a number of instances run per service image, a typical instance type (e.g., small, medium, large, etc.), % average uptime, and estimated TOC\/hr.","In an embodiment, the collection service  may collect operational data continuously, periodically, aperiodically, or on an interrupt driven basis. For example, the collection service  may collect operational data for a selected service image from the time the service image is executed until the time when execution ceases.","In an alternative embodiment, the collection service  may collect operational data for a selected service image under different conditions. In one embodiment, the collection service  may collect the operational data in response to an event. For example, after a new or updated service image is offered by the electronic service image marketplace , the collection service  may automatically begin collecting operational data for the new or updated service image. In another embodiment, the collection service  may collect operational data at periodic intervals (e.g., once per month). The periodic interval may be increased or decreased depending on parameters including, but not limited to, one or more of the number of installations of the selected service image that are executed, a popularity of the service image within the electronic service image marketplace , a classification of the service image, a provider of the service image, and the like.","The collection service  may further collect and\/or maintain operational data of the selected service image over a selected duration of time for use in analysis of aggregate operational data, as discussed in greater detail below. For example, the duration of time may include a selected time period representative for the selected operational data (e.g., one week, one month, one year, a lifetime of operation of the service image, etc.).","In a further embodiment, the collection service  may collect operational data in response to a request (e.g., a request from the marketplace server ), For example, the marketplace server  may receive a request to provide information and details regarding a selected service image for which no operational data has previously been collected. In another example, the marketplace server  may receive a request to provide information and details regarding a selected service image for which existing operational data is older than a selected time duration (e.g., greater than one month).","The operational data collected by the collection component  may be provided to the analysis component  data for analysis of the collected operational data, in aggregate. By aggregating the collected data, one or more parameters representative of a selected operational data type may be determined In one embodiment, the analysis may include a statistical analysis of the data collected for the operational data type. For example, assuming a type of operational data follows a normal distribution, one or more parameters of the normal distribution may be calculated (e.g., mean, median, and\/or mode of the distribution, standard deviations of the mean, and the like). The operational data output from the analysis component  may be referred to herein as aggregate operational data parameters.","In certain embodiments, the analysis component  may omit selected operational data from use in the analysis. For example, the analysis component  may omit operational data collected from selected host computing devices that are atypical (e.g., operational data collected from unhealthy service images). Beneficially, such omission may inhibit the calculated aggregate operational data parameters from being skewed in error.","The aggregate operational data parameters may be further employed by the analysis component  for use in determining total cost of operation of the selected service image. For example, assume that a service image for a database is determined to employ selected software having a monthly subscription fee, employs selected computing resources having a selected cost\/hr, and operates on a virtual instance of a selected size also having a selected cost\/hr. All of these costs may be summed by the analysis component  to generate an estimated TOC. It may be understood that the estimate is intended merely as a gross estimate of TOC, as it is generated from operational data for selected service image in aggregate and may not be representative of the operating cost of the service image as configured for a specific customer.","The analysis component  may further store any generated aggregate operational data parameters and\/or estimated TOC for further use by the electronic service image marketplace . In one embodiment, the analysis component  may store generated aggregate operational data parameters in the electronic catalog  and\/or in other data storage devices in communication with the operational data service .","The analysis component  may further compare current or presently measured values for an operational data of interest collected by the collection component to the generated aggregate operational data parameters. In certain embodiments, the operational data of interest may be selected by an operator of the electronic service image marketplace , an operator of a hosted computing environment, a customer of the electronic service image marketplace , a provider of the electronic service image marketplace , and combinations thereof. In alternative embodiments, all operational data measured by the collection component  and aggregated by the analysis component  may be employed. If a currently measured operational data value is found to be out of compliance with a corresponding aggregate operational data parameter, the analysis component  may provide this information to the notification component  for notification of the respective customer, as discussed below.","In certain embodiments, a current operational data value may be in conformance with a corresponding generated aggregate operational data parameter when the current operational data value lies within a range of values specified by the generated aggregate operational data parameter. In another embodiment, a current operational data value may be in compliance with a corresponding generated aggregate operational data parameter when the current operational data value lies within a selected amount and\/or a selected percentage of a value specified by the generated aggregate operational data parameter (e.g., \u00b110%).","For example, assume the case where the operational data of interest is a number of instances run and the current value for a customer is 7. Further assume that the aggregate operational data parameter for number of instances run is 1\u03c3 of the mean, calculated to be 3-5. The analysis component  may determine that the current value of the operational data of interest for the customer, 7, is not within the range specified by the aggregate operational data parameter. As a result, the analysis component  may pass this information to the notification component .","The notification component  of the operational data service  may provide notifications to customers under circumstances when one or more operational data of interest for a customer are not in conformance with the corresponding aggregate operational data parameter. A notification may include a message that informs the customer of the detected non-conformity. Examples of messages may include, but are not limited to, telephone calls, voice-over IP (VOIP) calls, instant messages (IM), short message service (SMS) text messages, and electronic mail messages (e-mail). In further examples, the message may be communicated to the customer via a user interface generated by the electronic service image marketplace . The notification may further provide the customer with instructions to adjust the operational data of interest. Operational data of interest may be adjusted by the customer using the electronic service image marketplace  through embodiments disclosed the '227 application.","In an embodiment, a notification may be transmitted to the customer when a selected number of current operational data values (e.g., one, two, three, etc) for the customer are not in conformance with the corresponding aggregate operational data parameter. In further embodiments, the selected number may depend upon the operational data value itself. For example, a notification may not be provided to the customer until a high number of non-critical operational data of the customer are out of conformance with the corresponding aggregate operational data parameter. In contrast, a notification may be provided to the customer when a low number of critical operational data of the customer are out of conformance with the corresponding aggregate operational data parameter.","Notifications, different than those provided to the customers, may also be transmitted to service image providers regarding a selected service image. For example, the analysis component  may further analyze notifications transmitted to customers. In certain embodiments, specific content of the customer notifications may not be examined, to preserve confidentiality of the customer's service image information. Rather, the analysis may examine information about the notification itself, such as a total number of notifications for the service image, a frequency of notifications for the service image, the purpose for generating the notification, etc.","This information may be analyzed, for example, using a statistical analysis, and one or more parameters of the aggregated notifications may be transmitted to the service image provider. For example, a notification may be transmitted to a service image provider indicating that the average number of customer notifications per executed service image is 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["120","120","122","152","120","120"]},"Upon receiving the operational data, the operational data service  may further analyze the received operational data. In one aspect, aggregate operational data parameters and\/or estimated total cost of operation, as discussed above, may be calculated. The generated aggregate operational data parameters may be transmitted to a storage device (e.g., electronic catalog ) for storage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 1","FIG. 3B"],"b":["140","100","140","100","112","140","112"]},"With continued reference to , after submission of a search query by the customer computing device , the marketplace server  may submit a request to the electronic catalog  for service images matching the customer submitted query. In response, the electronic catalog  may retrieve and return information corresponding to service images which match the customer submitted query. Details of these matching service images may then transmitted to the customer computing device . A customer computing device  may select any returned service image to view more details about the selected service image.","In certain embodiments, should aggregate operational data parameters for the selected service image not be present within the electronic catalog , or another data storage device in communication with the marketplace server , the marketplace server  may request operational data for the selected service image from the operational data service . The operational data service  may obtain the requested operational data as discussed above with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B","b":["400","100","400","112","112","400","408"]},"As shown in , the user interface  provides information retrieved from the electronic service image marketplace , i.e., a Hosted Web Service Catalog\u201d  to \u201cChris Customer\u201d , an illustrative customer accessing the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog.\u201d Because the customer is viewing details regarding a specific offered service image, and may wish to browse to other service images, navigation pane  is displayed. Navigation pane  contains links that enable a customer to browse and select other service images available via the electronic service image marketplace . Currently, the user interface  depicts information for the service image \u201cPaul's Database,\u201d which corresponds to the service image uploaded by a provider Paul Provider.","Display features - display information corresponding to the service image. Display feature , for example, is a graphic associated with the service image. The graphic may correspond to a logo associated with the service image or with the service image provider. Display features  and  depict the name of the service image and the provider of the service image, respectively. Display features - depict pricing information associated with the service image. Display feature  depicts reviews given to the service image by users of the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog.\u201d As depicted, display feature  reflects that \u201cPaul's Database\u201d has been given, on average, a three star rating by users of the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog.\u201d As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, various other methods of displaying a rating of a service image may be employed. Display feature  depicts a version number of the service image; in the current example, version 1.0. In some embodiments, display feature  may be selectable to view alternative versions of the selected service image that are available. This may be desirable, for example, where previous versions have different desired characteristics, such as different pricings, features, compatibility, or ratings.","Input box  may be utilized by the customer to specify a number of instances of the selected service image that the customer desires. Generally speaking, an instance refers to an individual computing device, virtual or physical, which has executed, loaded, or launched the selected service image. A customer may wish to specify multiple instances, for example, where the customer wishes to distribute processing or load access across multiple instances. In other examples, multiple instances may be functional to interact, or to provide different functionality via the same service image. The number of instances in input box  may optionally be associated with a default value, such that the customer is not required to select a number of instances. After inputting the desired number of instances (if necessary), the customer may activate input button  to further configure and launch the viewed service image. An embodiment of a user interface that may be used to further configure and launch a service image is discussed in detail in the '227 application.","With reference to , an additional portion of user interface  regarding the \u201cPaul's Database\u201d service image is displayed. As discussed above, the customer may view this additional portion of the user interface by interacting with interface window , such as by moving the scroll bar .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["434","440","434","100"]},"Similar to display feature , display feature  displays service images which are commonly purchased in conjunction with \u201cPaul's Database.\u201d In this example, customers who launched at least one instance of \u201cPaul's Database\u201d have frequently also launched an instance of the \u201cWeb Server\u201d service image. Both display features  and  have additional information regarding their relevant service images, such as graphical and pricing information. Input buttons may be provided along with display features  and  to allow a customer to select the relevant service image for configuration and launch.","Illustrative display features  and  depict still more information regarding the \u201cPaul's Database\u201d service image. Display feature  depicts aggregate operational data parameters generated by the operational data service for the \u201cPaul's Database\u201d service image. In the illustrative display feature , the operational data may include the number of installations of the service image which have occurred, the average uptime of the installed service images (which may correspond with a reliability\/quality of service of the service image), the typical type of computing device on which the service image is launched, and the typical number of instances of the service image which are launched by a customer.","Display feature  depicts individual reviews generated by users of the electronic service image marketplace  regarding \u201cPaul's Database.\u201d Each review may have information such as a rating of the service image on a given scale, and an authored comment portion regarding the service image. In some embodiments, additional or alternative display features may be depicted regarding a service image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["120","122","152","120"]},"In an embodiment, the notification may be transmitted to the customer directly or via a component of the electronic service image marketplace . Examples of notifications transmitted directly to the customer may include, but are not limited to, telephone calls, voice-over IP (VOIP) calls, instant messages (IM), short message service (SMS) text messages, and electronic mail messages (e-mail). In a further example, the notification may be communicated to the customer via a user interface generated by the electronic service image marketplace .  illustrates one embodiment of a user interface  for displaying information regarding acquired service images, including notifications regarding operational data. As shown in , the user interface  enables a customer to receive information regarding services images acquired via the electronic service image marketplace , i.e., the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog,\u201d . The current user of the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog\u201d is Chris Customer . A navigation panel  directs the customer to various other features offered by the electronic service image marketplace .","Embodiments of the user interface objects - are discussed in greater detail in the '227 application. In brief, in the illustrative example of , Chris Customer has selected the \u201cMy Instances\u201d link . The resultant user interface  gives Chris Customer access to information regarding instances of service images launched via the electronic service image marketplace . The user interface object  reflects a title of a service image which Chris Customer has previously acquired. In this example, Chris Customer has acquired service images titled both \u201cPaul's Database\u201d and \u201cWeb Server.\u201d For the purposes of illustration, only the instance reflected by user interface object  will be discussed further.","It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that information regarding multiple additional service image titles may be displayed via the same or a similar user interface. User interface objects  and  reflect the current status of instances of the \u201cPaul's Database\u201d service image. User interface objects - enable a customer to modify the configuration of an acquired service image. In the current example, each instance of a service image is identified by a unique instance identifier . User interface object  is selectable by Chris Customer to display management functions associated with the instance. Chris Customer can select link  in order to access the corresponding instance. User interface object  depicts the current charges associated with usage of the service image. Chris Customer may select user interface object  to view details associated with the current charges, such as a detailed billing report.","The user interface object  may indicate that a notification has been issued for the selected service image. The user interface object  may provide a description of the notification. For example, as discussed above in the case where the number of instances run is out of conformance, the notification may read, \u201cThe number of instances run is greater than typical for \u201cPaul's Database. You may wish to consider reducing the number of instances run.\u201d","With reference to , an illustrative user interface  displayed on a provider computing device  that details information regarding a service image of a provider is depicted. As shown in , the user interface  enables a provider to receive information regarding service images it has provided to the electronic service image marketplace , i.e., the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog.\u201d The current user of the \u201cHosted Web Services Catalog\u201d is Paul Provider , who has provided the service image \u201cPaul's Database\u201d to the electronic service image marketplace . To reflect that Paul Provider has provided this service image, a navigation panel  displays a link  under the heading \u201cMy Images,\u201d which is selectable by a customer to view information about the provided service image.","The user interface  is reflective of Paul Provider's selection of link . In brief, display features - may depict information regarding the corresponding service image. Additional discussion of the user interface  may be found in the '227 application. For example, the depicted information may include, but is not limited to, a service image title , current number of customers which have acquired the instance , and a number of hours the service image has been used for the current month . The user interface  may further include an estimated number of total hours the service image will be used during the month, based on the current usage  and an hourly rate associated with usage of the service image, as set by the Paul Provider . Display features  and  reflect both current and estimated monthly accruals associated with usage of the service image by customers.","The user interface  may further include provider notifications  regarding the selected service image. The provider notifications may include information regarding the selected service image that is not proprietary to any customers, such as the aggregate operational data for the service image determined by the operational data service . For example, as illustrated in , the provider may select a notification  to obtain a comprehensive report on the aggregate operational data parameters for the selected service image.","In further embodiments, the notifications  may also include aggregated information regarding customer notifications. Examples of such information may include a number of notifications transmitted regarding a selected service image (absolute or per occurrence of the service image), the purpose for the notification, and the like. For example, as further illustrated in , notification  discloses the number of notifications per implementation.","All of the processes described herein may be embodied in, and fully automated via, software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer-readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition, the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware or a combination thereof.","Conditional language such as, among others, \u201ccan,\u201d \u201ccould,\u201d \u201cmight\u201d or \u201cmay,\u201d unless specifically stated otherwise, are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include, while other embodiments do not include, certain features, elements and\/or steps. Thus, such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features, elements and\/or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding, with or without user input or prompting, whether these features, elements and\/or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.","Conjunctive language such as the phrase \u201cat least one of X, Y and Z,\u201d unless specifically stated otherwise, is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item, term, etc. may be either X, Y or Z. Thus, such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X, at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.","Any process descriptions, elements or blocks in she flow diagrams described herein and\/or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules, segments, or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted, executed out of order from that shown, or discussed, including substantially concurrently or in reverse order, depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.","It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages will become more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to the following detailed description, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
