---
title: Generating cloud deployment targets based on predictive workload estimation
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for generating cloud deployment targets based on predictive workload estimation. In aspects, a set of usage histories can store records for user workloads in a host cloud-based network recording the consumption of processor, memory, storage, operating system, application, or other resources subscribed to by the user. The operator of the cloud management system hosting the workloads of one or more users can track, identify, and manage the predictive marginal resource capacities of the set of host clouds, based on those historical usage patterns. The collective usage history can indicate, for instance, that a number of operating workloads tend to display a small under-utilization of processor or memory resources during certain overnight periods on a regular basis. The operator can then harvest those predictive marginal capacities, and offer a new user or workload a potential hosting subscription based on those expected resource availabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442769&OS=09442769&RS=09442769
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09442769
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention relates generally to systems and methods for generating cloud deployment targets based on predictive workload estimation, and more particularly, to platforms and techniques for identifying, capturing, and aggregating underutilized cloud resources in clouds hosting one or more operating workloads, and leveraging those marginal resource capacities in subscription offers to additional users or workloads.","The advent of cloud-based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores, media outlets, social networking sites, and many other on-line sites or services. In general, a cloud-based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors, operating systems, software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks, services, or applications. For example, a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis, for instance, to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short-term basis, such as hours or days, for their intended application.","Typically, when a user utilizes a cloud, the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and\/or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example, the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated, that the cloud processes are functioning properly and\/or efficiently, that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes, and so forth. Due in part to the user's requirements and overall usage of the cloud, the user may have many applications and\/or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant, and the user's deployment of virtual machines, software, and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases, the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user's cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries, and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end-user groups in those different cloud networks.","In terms of operating efficiency for cloud operators, the workloads hosted by various clouds may not exhibit constant or unchanging demands on the resources of their host clouds. In cases, a workload may demonstrate a tendency to require less than the fully subscribed levels of resources over certain periods. Across the entire collection of operating workloads and entire collection of cloud resources, these temporarily underutilized resources may represent a significant portion of the clouds' total capacities, which may lie in a predictably idle state during certain intervals of time. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for generating cloud deployment targets based on predictive workload estimation, in which temporarily underutilized host cloud resources can be captured in a set of predictive marginal capacities that can be re-used by new or existing workloads.","Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein, a \u201ccloud\u201d can comprise a collection of hardware, software, services, and\/or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine, process, or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in , the collection of resources supporting a cloud  can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers  configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine, process, service, or other resource. For example, one group of resource servers in set of resource servers  can host and serve an operating system, and\/or components, utilities, or interfaces related to that operating system, to deliver to a virtual target, and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers  can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time, memory allocations, communications ports or links, and\/or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers  can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine, such as an email client, a browser application, a messaging application, or other applications, software, or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .","In embodiments, the entire set of resource servers  and\/or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds , along with the set of instantiated virtual machines, can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system  can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and\/or other software, hardware, services, and network tools that communicate via network , such as the Internet or other public or private network, with all servers in set of resource servers  to manage the cloud  and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines, a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system  for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email, messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines, virtual appliance machines consisting of special-purpose or dedicated-task machines as understood in the art, and\/or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system , which identifies the type of virtual machine, process, or other resource being requested in that platform's associated cloud. The cloud management system  can then identify the collection of hardware, software, service, and\/or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments, the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can, for example, and as noted, comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts, Web pages, and\/or other transaction sites.","In embodiments, the user's instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request, for example, can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines, services, or processes is needed. The period of time can be, for example, an hour, a day, a month, or other interval of time. In embodiments, the user's instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis, rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance, a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user's instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example, the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input\/output (I\/O) throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments, the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement (SLA) acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines, software, and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user's request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters, and others. It may be noted that \u201cuser\u201d herein can include a network-level user or subscriber to cloud-based networks, such as a corporation, government entity, educational institution, and\/or other entity, including individual users and groups of users.","When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified, the cloud management system  can communicate with one or more set of resource servers  to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally, the cloud management system  can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers  to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines, services, or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments, permanent storage, such as optical storage or hard disk arrays, may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers  available to the cloud management system , since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments, other hardware, software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds  can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example, other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds  acting as hosts, and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds, can be invoked by in-cloud virtual machines or users. For further example, other non-cloud hardware and\/or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds  acting as hosts or native clouds, for instance, on an on-demand, subscribed, or event-triggered basis.","With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines, the cloud management system  can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic, on-demand basis. For example, one set of resource servers  may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers  can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth, for example on a guaranteed minimum or best-efforts basis, for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments, the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis, or at a particular future time. For example, a set of resource servers  may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time, such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.","After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers , the cloud management system  can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers  that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user's requested virtual machine, service, or other resource. The cloud management system  for the one or more clouds  acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers , to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system  can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers , or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined, to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population, services, or other cloud-based resources.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers  that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines, services, or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as, for instance, Internet protocol (IP) addresses or other addresses. In aspects, different sets of servers in set of resource servers  can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and\/or for different applications. The cloud management system  can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers  contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines, services, or processes.","The cloud management system  can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines, processes, services, and\/or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system  can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system  can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers  indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm, for example, the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles, amounts of electronic memory, communications bandwidth, services, and\/or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.","As shown for example in , after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer, selected software, and\/or other resources, the cloud management system  can then instantiate a set of virtual machines , and\/or other appliances, services, processes, and\/or entities, based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers  registered to support the one or more clouds  in a multiple-cloud network . According to aspects, cloud management system  can access or interact with a virtualization module, platform, or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines , such as the kernel-based virtualization manager (KVM\u2122) available from Red Hat, Inc. of Raleigh, N.C., or others. In embodiments, the cloud management system  can instantiate a given number, for example, 10, 500, 1000, 20,000, or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds  and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects, users may access the one or more clouds  via the Internet, or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table, or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally, the cloud management system  can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine, as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can further store, track and manage each user's identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software, hardware, and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them, with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system  can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform, such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources, configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications, submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host, manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines  or other resources, and\/or other privileges, entitlements, or actions. The cloud management system  associated with the virtual machine(s) of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking, billing, and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings, the tracking of usage activity for one or more user (including network level user and\/or end-user) can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered, and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds, as described herein. In embodiments, the cloud management system  of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and\/or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines , to generate subscription and\/or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects, tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription, billing, entitlement and\/or value arrangements are possible.","The cloud management system  can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines  to be made available to users via one or more networks , such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface, via an application server such as a Javaserver, via an application programming interface (API), and\/or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines  can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system  and the registered servers in set of resource servers  via a standard Web application programming interface (API), or via other calls, protocols, and\/or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines  can likewise communicate with each other, as well as other sites, servers, locations, and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks, whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds , or between those or other clouds.","It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front-end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines  from a client or terminal, the processing, memory, communications, storage, and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments, the set of virtual machines  or other services, machines, or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user's own on-premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments, a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off-premise basis, for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront, messaging site, and\/or any other application. Likewise, one or more clouds  can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds, themselves.","Because the cloud management system  in one regard specifies, builds, operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines  on a logical or virtual level, the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real-time or near real-time basis, without a need to specify, install, or configure any particular hardware. The user's set of instantiated virtual machines , processes, services, and\/or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on-demand basis, if desired. In embodiments, the set of resource servers  that are accessed by the cloud management system  to support the set of instantiated virtual machines  or processes can change or be substituted, over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines  can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant, since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely, the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines  can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system  and\/or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities, on a dynamic basis.","In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines  that have been successfully configured and instantiated, the one or more cloud management systems  associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security, maintenance, and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system  of one or more clouds  can, for example, install, initiate, suspend, or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system  can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines, and for instance terminate an application identified as infected, or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system  can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines  or other resources on a network-wide or other collective basis, for instance, to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system  and\/or other associated logic.","In embodiments, more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time, at overlapping times, and\/or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system  can, in such implementations, build, launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines  based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers , with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system  can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds  hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines  can be hosted in a respective partition or sub-cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system  of one or more clouds  can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub-clouds, or isolate individual workloads\/processes within the cloud to a specific sub-cloud or other sub-domain or partition of the one or more clouds  acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds  into distinct transient sub-clouds, sub-components, or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi-tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple-user scenario, each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments, sub-clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources, if desired.","In embodiments, and as also shown in , the set of instantiated virtual machines  generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds  can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines, services, and\/or processes generated in a second, third or further cloud in one or more clouds , comprising a multiple-cloud network . The cloud management system  of a first cloud of one or more clouds  can interface with the cloud management system  of a second, third, or further cloud of one or more clouds  to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and\/or virtual machines, services, and\/or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system  of a given cloud on one or more clouds  can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud, as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.","In the foregoing and other embodiments, the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person, customer, subscriber, administrator, corporation, organization, government, and\/or other entity. In embodiments, the user can be or include another virtual machine, application, service and\/or process. In further embodiments, multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.","In aspects, a set of host clouds  can host a set of existing or already-operating workloads for users who have subscribed to cloud-based network services and operations. According to embodiments, trends or patterns of resource consumption in those existing workloads can present the operator of the set of host clouds  with an opportunity to capture or harvest under-utilized cloud resources, to possibly support additional workload subscriptions. In those regards,  shows an illustrative network configuration in which systems and methods for generating cloud deployment targets based on predictive workload estimation can be implemented, according to various embodiments. In embodiments as shown, one or more users can operate a user premise , such as a local area network with a set of client machines, and\/or other machines or resources. In aspects, the user can in addition or instead operate one or more sets of virtual machines, appliances, and\/or other virtual entities (not shown) in a set of host clouds . According to aspects, the set of users can execute or operate a set of operating workloads , including the execution of applications, services, transactions, data operations, and\/or other activities generally hosted in the set of host clouds . In terms of support of the set of operating workloads , the set of host clouds  can include a set of diverse and\/or otherwise unrelated cloud-based networks to which the user or users can subscribe for various resources under various subscription terms, criteria, service level agreements, and\/or other conditions, which can be recorded or reflected in a set of subscription parameters . The set of subscription parameters  can for instance be stored in the cloud store  hosted or accessed by a cloud management system , and\/or in other storage resources or locations.","In aspects, the consumption of resources in the set of host clouds , the assignment of user workloads in the set of operating workloads  to specific support servers in the set of support servers , generation of related billing events, and other workload and subscription-related activities can be tracked and managed by the hosting module , which can be hosted in the cloud management system  and\/or in other locations, resources, or services. According to aspects, the hosting module  can communicate with the set of resource servers  including hardware support servers, and\/or other resource providers, such as the vendors of software such as operating systems, applications, utilities, and\/or other programs, services, and\/or related resources. The cloud management system  can maintain part or all of the terms, conditions, limits, criteria, stipulations, and\/or other parameters of the user's subscription to one or more resources hosted or provisioned in the set of host clouds  governing the set of operating workloads , and for instance reflected in the set of subscription parameters . In embodiments, the relationship between the user premise  when present and the set of host clouds  can be configured to operate on a rollover or failover basis, for instance, to provide instances of virtual machines for the user when the installed hardware and associated resources of the user premise  is insufficient to support immediate processing, throughput, and\/or other demands.","In aspects, the user can operate and the set of operating workloads  can employ or use virtual machines, virtual appliances, and\/or other entities in the set of host clouds , and each host cloud in the set of host clouds  can capture and store a set of local usage data  reflecting those operations. The set of local usage data  can record the consumption or use of resources in a local host cloud in the set of host clouds , such as the number of instances of software including operating systems and applications, processor resources, memory resources, communications resources, storage resources, and\/or other elements or resources. The cloud management system , hosting module , and\/or other logic or service can periodically receive the set of local usage data  and\/or updates to that information from one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds . The receipt of the set of local usage data  or any portion of the set of local usage data  can be performed in aspects on a pull or demand basis, where the hosting module  and\/or other logic can issue commands or instructions to one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds , and receive that data back from the interrogated cloud or clouds. In aspects, the set of local usage data  can be transmitted to the hosting module  on a push basis, for instance, on a predetermined, event-triggered, and\/or other basis initiated by one or more of the host clouds in set of host clouds , themselves. Other channels, schedules, and techniques for the collection of the set of local usage data  from any one or more of the set of host clouds  can be used.","After receipt of the set of local usage data , any portion or component of the set of local usage data , and\/or updates to the same, the hosting module  can collect and aggregate the set of local usage data  from the various host clouds and organize that data in a set of aggregate usage history data . The set of aggregate usage history data  can reflect recent and\/or accumulated usage consumption by the subject user(s) and\/or set of operating workloads  in all of the set of host clouds , over comparatively short-term periods or intervals such as minutes, one or more hours, one day, a number of days, a week, and\/or over other periods. In aspects, the hosting module  can collect the set of local usage data  regardless of whether each of those clouds is configured to communicate with each other or not. In aspects, the set of aggregate usage history data  can present to the hosting module  and\/or other logic the combined resource consumption by the user across the user premise  and\/or all operating virtual machines, workloads, and\/or other entities in the set of host clouds , on an hour-by-hour and\/or other relatively short-term basis.","In aspects, cloud management system , the hosting module , and\/or other logic or service can operate on the set of aggregate usage history data  to generate predictive trendlines for the consumption of resources of the set of host clouds  by the set of operating workloads . In aspects, a pattern of under-utilization of some resources by some users and\/or workloads during certain periods may create an opportunity to capture or exploit those temporary marginal capacities for use by other users and\/or workloads. In this fashion, unexploited and\/or under-utilized resources of the set of host clouds  can be leveraged for more efficient operation.","In further aspects according to the present teachings, the cloud management system , hosting module , and\/or other logic or service can examine the set of operating workloads , set of aggregate usage history data , and\/or other information and generate a set of predicted marginal capacities  for resources in the set of host clouds . The hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can examine the set of aggregate usage history data  and determine, for instance, that a first user operating Workload  in cloud ID  demonstrates periods of high transaction frequency and communications bandwidth during the period of 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on weekdays, with a significant reduction in consumption of those resources outside of those times on all days. The hosting module  and\/or other logic, application, and\/or service can calculate or identify a marginal capacity, for instance, of 8% of Web transaction rates and communications bandwidth that are projected to be freed up during that recurring period, and make those resources available for contribution to other workloads and\/or users as part of the set of predictive marginal capacities  for that interval. Other resources can be tracked, estimated or projected, and incorporated into the set of predictive marginal capacities .","Once the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service has generated the set of predictive marginal capacities  for one or more periods, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can allocate or offer those resources to new or existing users or workloads, for additional workload hosting purposes. In embodiments, the deployment or potential offering of those captured resources can take place by way of the receipt of a subscription request  received from a requesting workload . In aspects, the requesting workload  can be or include an existing user of the set of host clouds , a new potential user of the set of host clouds , a rollover user, and\/or other users and\/or associated workloads. In aspects, the subscription request  can specify one or more resources required by the requesting workload for a new deployment and\/or workload migration. In aspects, the subscription request  can be or include specifications or criteria such as, for instance, any one or more of a subscription cost, a minimum number of software images to be deployed in the set of host clouds , a maximum number of software images to be deployed in the set of set of host clouds , an operating system specification, a software application specification, a minimum processor throughput specification, a maximum processor throughput specification, a minimum memory amount specification, a maximum memory amount specification, a minimum storage capacity specification, a maximum storage capacity specification, a minimum bandwidth specification, a maximum bandwidth specification, a minimum set of communications ports specification, a maximum set of communications ports specification, an appliance specification, a service level agreement specification, and\/or any services in support of any of the foregoing, as well as other services provided via the set of host clouds  to support the requesting workload .","After receipt of the subscription request , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can generate a comparison between the specifications of the subscription request  and the set of predictive marginal capacities , to determine whether or to what degree the resources predicted to be available for capture in the set of host clouds  match those requested in the subscription request . As part of that calculation, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can, in embodiments, access and\/or receive a set of matching criteria  to apply to the comparison between the subscription request and the set of predictive marginal capacities . The set of matching criteria  can indicated, for example, that in order for a satisfactory match to the subscription request  to be established, each requested resource must be match to a level of at least 97%, with an overall reduction of the cost of subscription for the requesting workload  of at least 2%. Other functions, thresholds, and\/or criteria can be used. After completing an analysis of the potential of one or more of the set of host clouds  to host the requesting workload , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can transmit a host response  to the requesting workload  and\/or other entity. The host response  can for instance be or include an offer to host the requesting workload  in Cloud Ids  and  at a specified level of processor, memory, and storage capacity for the intervals of 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m. on weekdays, and\/or other details of the potential hosting arrangement in the set of host clouds . Upon acceptance by the requesting workload  of the host response, the requesting workload  can be transferred or migrated to the one or more clouds in the set of host clouds  whose marginal resource capacities will be used to support the requesting workload .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["104","116","106","104","130","132","136","136","130","138","128","102","152","130","134","106","130","104","168","104","108","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","146","160","142","606","164","142","164","160","164","168","164","160"]},"Thus, merely for example, a first user operating Workload  in cloud ID  can demonstrate periods of strong processor and memory consumption during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays, but then a significant reduction in consumption of processor and memory consumption from 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. on those same days. The hosting module  and\/or other logic, application, and\/or service can calculate or identify a marginal capacity, for instance, of 5% of processor and memory allocations that are predicted to be freed up during those intervals or periods, and available for contribution to other workloads and\/or users. In aspects, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can identify different types of resources, including for instance processor, memory, storage, communications, and\/or other resources or services that may be available from different host clouds in the set of host clouds  over different intervals. In aspects, the set of predictive marginal capacities  can reflect the aggregated or combined marginal resource contributions of different host clouds for which different resource under-utilization may take place.","In aspects, the combined resources reflected in the set of predictive marginal capacities  can be organized in hourly, daily, and\/or other time periods. It may be noted that in aspects, the set of predictive marginal capacities  can reflect predicted available excess capacities in different resources for different workloads in the set of operating workloads , independently of any subscription parameters that may apply to those workloads. In aspects in those regards and others, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can identify or \u201charvest\u201d marginal projected differences between resources subscribed to by the set of operating workloads  and those which may become available due to temporary under-utilization, and combine those resources into the set of predictive marginal capacities  to make available to the requesting workload  and\/or other user, workload, or entity.","In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can receive a subscription request  for hosting and\/or migrating a new workload from a requesting workload . In aspects, the subscription request  can specify a set of minimum and\/or desired resources requested to host the requesting workload , including, for instance, processor, memory, storage, communications, and\/or other resources or services In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can compare the subscription request  to the set of predictive marginal capacities , to determine whether various requested baseline resource levels can be met, partially met, or not met by the set of predictive marginal capacities  predicted to be available from the set of host clouds . In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can access, receive, and\/or generate the set of matching criteria , indicating thresholds, weights, minimums, and\/or other criteria that can be applied to the comparison between the subscription request  and set of predictive marginal capacities  to determine the existence or strength of a host resource match. For example, the set of matching criteria  can indicate that a minimum of 105% match between all requested resources and resources identified in the set of predictive marginal capacities  must be present in order to make a selection of one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds . Other criteria can be used in the set of matching criteria .","In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can apply the set of matching criteria  to the set of predictive marginal capacities  based on comparison to the resource levels and\/or other conditions specified in the subscription request . For instance, the set of matching criteria  can specify that a match of 100% of requested resources must be found at a net subscription cost that is 5% lower than the existing costs of the requesting workload , and the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can determine that cloud ID  can meet the set of matching criteria  as specified for a subscription period identified in the subscription request . Other criteria or conditions can be used. In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can identify the cloud or clouds in the set of host clouds  satisfying the set of matching criteria  and\/or other conditions required for hosting the requesting workload . In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can select one or more of the host clouds satisfying the subscription request  to accept the hosting of the requesting workload . In aspects, if just one host cloud is identified which satisfies all the set of matching criteria  and\/or other conditions, that cloud may be identified as the new cloud host. In aspects, if more than one host cloud is identified which satisfies all the set of matching criteria  and\/or other conditions, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can for instance apply tie-breaker rules to select one or more clouds, and\/or can randomly choose between the qualifying host clouds. In aspects, the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can in addition or instead transmit a query or dialog to the requesting workload  and\/or associated user(s) to selected one or more qualified host cloud. In aspects, the selected and\/or qualified cloud or clouds in the set of host clouds  can be identified in the hosting response  and\/or other message transmitted to the requesting workload  and\/or associated user(s).","In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can initiate the installation and\/or migration of the requesting workload  to the selected host cloud or clouds in the set of host clouds , as appropriate. In , the hosting module  and\/or other application, logic, and\/or service can update and\/or store further usage history data to the set of aggregate usage history data , including operation of the requesting workload  in the selected host cloud or clouds, as appropriate. In , as understood by persons skilled in the art, processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","The foregoing description is illustrative, and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example, while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system  for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform, in embodiments the cloud management system  and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers, services, or systems. Similarly, while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers  can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines, in embodiments, one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines , and\/or other machines, entities, services, or resources. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed, and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
