---
title: Asphalt modifiers, methods of modifying asphalt, asphalt compositions and methods of making
abstract: Asphalt compositions and products comprising petroleum asphalt, polyolefin, and a wax.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784554&OS=08784554&RS=08784554
owner: 
number: 08784554
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20111205
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION DATA","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES","Example 1","Supporting Data for Asphalt Modifier Patent Based on Polypropylene Homo-Polymer and Polypropylene Plus Polyethylene Co-Polymer as Primary Rheology Agents and Specified Secondary Rheology Modifying Agents","Example 2","Example 3"],"p":["This application is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/399,960, filed Mar. 8, 2009, now abandoned herein incorporated by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to asphalt compositions, asphalt modifiers, methods of making and using such compositions and modifiers, methods of modifying asphalt, and asphalt products.","2. Brief Description of the Related Art","Asphalt is a sticky, black and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid that is present in most crude petroleum and in some natural deposits. In U.S. terminology, asphalt (or asphalt cement) is the carefully refined residue from the distillation process of selected crude oils. Outside North America, the product is called bitumen.","Asphalt binder is a key ingredient in pavements, roofing and waterproofing applications. The primary use of asphalt is in road construction, where it is used as the glue or binder for the aggregate particles, and accounts for approximately 80% of the asphalt consumed in the United States. The most common type of flexible pavement surfacing in the United States is hot mix asphalt (HMA) that may also be known by many different names such as hot mix, asphalt concrete (AC or ACP), asphalt, blacktop or bitumen.","After use of asphalt in road construction, roofing applications, mainly in the form of roofing shingles account for most of the remaining asphalt consumption. Other uses include waterproofing applications.","Asphalt binder as produced by the refining process does not have the desired stiffness modulus for heavy load bearing for use in heavily trafficked pavements such as the Interstate Highways as well as heavily trafficked inner city streets. Until now polymers such as Styrene Butadiene Styrene (SBS) Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR), Ethylene Vinyl Acetate (EVA), Fischer-Tropsch Waxes, Elvaloy Ter-Polymers, Natural and Synthetic Latex and Crumbed Tire Rubber and also combinations of one or more of these have been used as asphalt binder modifiers.","Over the past seven years or so, traditional Hot Mix has been under scrutiny due to hydrocarbon emissions, energy cost and difficulties in compaction after long hauls and in cold weather paving. A new technology called \u201cWarm Mix\u201d asphalt emerged around year 2000 and was promoted by the National Pavement Association (NAPA) of the USA and this technology grew very rapidly and a large number of available Warm Mix technologies have emerged in recent years. Currently there are at least 20 such technologies available to the paving industry and the number is growing. The key benefits of Warm Mix are a reduction in asphalt aggregate mixing, transportation, lay down and paving temperatures by between 30\u00b0 F. to 70\u00b0 F. and providing benefits such as drastically reduced emissions during production, drastically reduced emissions during paving, energy savings, facilitating longer hauls to paving sites, wider paving window such as early paving in Spring and later paving into Fall and superior compaction over Hot Mix.","Adequate compaction is one of the prerequisites for a long lasting pavement and is difficult to achieve especially with highly modified stiff binders as well as with gap graded mixes such as Stone Mastic asphalt (SMA) and Open Graded Friction Courses (OGFC). Another challenge in achieving adequate compaction is cold climate paving and long haul distances where the mixing plants are located far from the paving sites. Compaction is considered so important by Federal and State authorities that in many cases contractors are awarded bonuses for achieving the target compaction consistently. It is well documented from global field trial and commercial data that Warm Mix applications achieve consistent and on target compaction even in cold weather and with difficult mixes. Also, enhanced compaction through Warm Mix applications a significant development since stiffer binders are being paved to carry the heavier loads and increasing numbers of vehicles on the roads.","Another major development that has emerged in recent years is the issue of personal heath and the related hydrocarbons exposure to paving crews and the motoring public. There is a strong movement to reduce such emissions and Warm Mix technology provides the scope to achieve the targeted new permissible emissions levels. Also, in the context of Green House emissions, there is a strong movement to limit green house gas emissions by asphalt mixing plants as a contribution to limiting this major problem. In Europe the limitations are in place already forcing the paving industry to use green fuels and reduce usage of fuel making Warm Mix the technology of choice. In the USA the use of Warm Mix is gaining momentum at an accelerating pace.","The unpredictable surges in fuel cost have made the energy cost of running asphalt mixing plants a severe cost burden. Warm Mix achieves on average about a 20% savings in energy cost and this is a substantial reduction aside from the benefits of reduced stack emissions from the reduced volume of fuel required for the same tonnage of output by Warm Mix over Hot Mix.","Several technologies are presently in use or in trials or in development as Warm Mix technologies and these may be classified into the following categories: (a) hard waxes such as Fischer-Tropsch\u00ae Waxes; (b) surfactants such as a combination of anti-strip agent and other organic additives, and surfactants plus water solution; (c) foaming technologies incorporating hydrated alumino-silicates; (d) foaming technologies incorporating the use of water either into a portion of the fine aggregate feed (such as the Low Energy Asphalt process) or direct atomization of water into the hot binder (such as the Double Barrel Green process).","A major concern of the Warm Mix process is the risk of moisture damage and this is being studied with earnest to assess this risk potential. Firstly, since Warm Mixes are produced at lower temperatures, there remains the risk that the aggregates are not completely dried as with Hot Mix. Secondly, there is the temptation to push Warm Mix to the ultimate limits without any proven data on moisture sensitivity and this may expose potential such risk even further. Thirdly, the use of water as the foaming agent is questionable since it has long been established that if water is left on the surface of the aggregate it will reduce the adhesion of the asphalt binder on to the aggregate causing adhesive failure with time. Also any water present in the binder will reduce the cohesive strength of the asphalt binder over time and cause cohesive failure.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,267,085, issued May 12, 1981 to Katoh et al., discloses injection materials for railroad track beds. Specifically, in a railroad track bed an injected layer is formed between the railroad ties and the roadbed so as to protect the latter. The injected layer is composed of an injection material injected through openings formed in the tie. The injection material has a viscosity below 30 poise at a temperature not higher than 200.degree. C. before hardening, and when hardened it has a compressive stress at 10% strain of 0.4 to 30 kg\/cm.sup.2 at a compressive strain rate at 40.degree. C. of 1.5% per minute. The blend material may include asphalt and a low molecular weight polypropylene having a molecular weight of 500-8000 or a high molecular weight polyethylene having a molecular weight of 10,000-100,000.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20020042477, published Apr. 11, 2002, to Jelling, discloses polymers which have been functionalized so as to be able to chemically react with polyamines to form adducts containing at least one or more groups consisting of amino, amido, imino, imido, or imidazloyl. Furthermore, the invention teaches processes to prepare these adducts by solution, melt or in-situ methods. A further embodiment of the invention pertains to the use of polyolefin plastomers or elastomers, elastomeric polyethylene-polypropylene, compositions or interpolymers of styrenes olefins, which have been chemically modified so that they react with polyamines to confer to asphalt significantly improved desired chemical and physical properties.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,588,974 issued Jul. 8, 2003, and U.S. Pat. No. 6,913,416 issued Jul. 5, 2005, both to Hildebrand, et al., disclose bitumen or asphalt for the production of road surfaces, road surfaces, and method for the preparation of bitumen or asphalt. The bitumen or asphalt contains a proportion of paraffin obtained by Fischer-Tropsch synthesis (FT paraffin). Also disclosed are a road topping with the bitumen and a method for producing a corresponding road topping or roadway covering using the bitumen.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20070218250, published Sep. 20, 2007, to Kiik et al., disloses roofing material that consists essentially of a substrate, a hot melt material applied to one side of the substrate, an asphalt material coating the other side of the substrate and roofing granules disposed on said asphalt material coated on the substrate. The hot melt material may be polyethylene, polyethylene-vinyl acetate, polypropylene, polyvinylidene chloride, polyester, nylon and mixtures thereof. The asphalt material may include non-asphaltic filler.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20080153945, published Jun. 26, 2008, to Prejean, discloses a polymer-modified asphalt composition comprising an elastomeric polymer blend, a low molecular weight plastomer which may be a polyolefin wax, and an unmodified asphalt. Asphalt compositions of the present invention demonstrate improved elasticity and stiffness compared to conventional polymer-modified asphalt compositions.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20090053405, published Feb. 26, 2009, to Martin, discloses bituminous asphalt binder materials that are modified by the addition of crumb rubber or ground tire rubber and a cross-linking agent are described. In addition, methods are provided for producing a modified asphalt binder containing crumb rubber or ground tire rubber and a cross-linking agent. The modified asphalt binders comprise neat asphalt, crumb rubber, one or more acids and a cross-linking agent. Optionally, the modified asphalt binder may include one or more polymer additives, including polyethylene (linear or crosslinked) and polypropylene (atactic or isotactic). The crumb rubber may be obtained from recycled truck and\/or automobile tires. The addition of crumb rubber in asphalt binders can improve the consistency and properties of the asphalt binders at high and low temperatures. In particular, the modified asphalt binders of the present invention exhibit improved elastic behavior, resulting in improved performance of roads or other surfaces paved using the modified asphalt binder. Road resistance to permanent deformation, fatigue cracking and thermal cracking is improved by use of the modified asphalt binder.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20090054562, published Feb. 26, 2009, to Martin, discloses in a first aspect, bituminous asphalt binder materials which are modified by the addition of crumb rubber or ground tire rubber are described, and discloses in a second aspect, the present invention is directed to methods of producing a modified asphalt binder containing crumb rubber or ground tire rubber. The modified asphalt binders comprise neat asphalt, crumb rubber, one or more synthetic polymers which may include polyethylene, and one or more acids. The crumb rubber may be obtained from recycled truck and\/or automobile tires.","All of the patents, publications, articles and\/or materials cited in this specification, are herein incorporated by reference.","However, in spite of the above advancements, there still exists a need in the art for asphalt compositions and products, and to methods of making and using such compositions and products.","This and other needs in the art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this specification, including its drawings and claims.","It is an object of the present invention to provide asphalt compositions and products, and to methods of making and using such compositions and products.","This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this specification, including its drawings and claims.","According to one non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an asphalt comprising petroleum asphalt a polyolefin component and, a wax component.","According to another non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt, the method comprising, contacting a petroleum asphalt with a polyolefin component and a wax component to form a treated asphalt.","According to even another non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an asphalt additive comprising polyolefin component, and a wax component.","According to still another non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt; a second component comprising particles comprising a polyolefin and a binder; wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component.","According to yet another non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt, the method comprising, contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles comprising a polyolefin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt.","According to still another non-limiting embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of making an asphalt additive comprising forming particles from a melted mixture comprising a polyolefin and a binder.","Various sub-embodiments of the above embodiments include sub-embodiments: wherein the polyolefin component comprises at least one selected from the group of C2 to C36 polyolefin homo-polymers, blends of two or more such polymers, and copolymers of two or more such polymers, and the binder component may comprise a petroleum micro-wax derived from crude oil refining processes; wherein the polyolefin component comprises a melting point range from 115\u00b0 C. to 250\u00b0 C.; wherein the polyolefin component comprises at least one selected from the group of polypropylene homo-polymers and ethylene\/propylene copolymers, and the wax component comprises a petroleum micro-wax derived from crude oil refining processes; wherein the wax component comprises a melting point in the range of 150\u00b0 F. (66\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.); and\/or wherein the binder component is selected from the group consisting of: Polyolefin waxes, Polyethylene By-Product Waxes, Fischer-Tropsch Hard Wax, SBS, SB, SEBS, SBR, Natural and Synthetic Latex, crumb Tire Rubber and Elvaloy Terpolymer, Trinidad Lake Asphalt (TLA), Gilsonite, Montan Waxes, tall oil and tall oil derived products (both solids and liquids), vegetable oils, synthetic and petroleum micro-crystalline waxes, and natural Rubber. In some non-limiting embodiments, the binder comprises a wax.","This invention describes an additive used as an asphalt binder modifier. This invention may find applicability with any type of asphalt including straight asphalt and blown asphalt. As a more particular non-limiting example, this invention finds applicability in paving applications with straight asphalt. As non-limiting examples, the additive may be in the form of a one pack additive in pastille, bead, pill or granule form. In some non-limiting embodiments, the additive provides for Pavement and Roofing applications that meet the target Performance Grading (PG) in terms of binder stiffness (as measured by the Dynamic Shear Rheometer or Softening Point) and Low Temperature flexibility (as measured by Bending Beam Rheometer or Fraas Breaking point or Mandrel Bending Test). Further, this invention may be formulated by specific design to produce the desired binder within the \u201cWarm Mix Asphalt\u201d concept for Paving applications as well as reduced temperature and enhanced application speeds for Roofing applications.","Some embodiments of the present invention may also find use in providing roofing and paving materials having improved UV resistance.","Some non-limiting methods of the present invention may obviate the need for grinding of polymers at the point of mixing with bitumen.","Some non-limiting embodiments of the present invention may facilitate the addition of crumb rubber to asphalt.","Some non-limiting embodiments of the present invention may prevent or reduce phasing of crumb rubber in asphalt formulations.","In some embodiments, the combined effect of the additive package may be to reduce the asphalt aggregate mixing, transportation, lay down and\/or compaction temperatures, by between 10\u00b0 C. (50\u00b0 F.) to 32\u00b0 C. (90\u00b0 F.) as a non-limiting example. Further, in certain embodiments, this invention may provide the benefit of enhancing the useful temperature range of the modified asphalt binder. This additive may be used to modify the asphalt binder first and then add to the aggregate mix or it may be added directly to the aggregate mixing drum whether a continuous drum mixer or a batch mixer. Some embodiments provide ease of transportation, storage and handling.","This invention relates to the use of polyolefin homo-polymer or copolymer resins or by-product waxes in asphalt modification. In non-limiting examples, these polyolefin resins may include polypropylene homo-polymer and polypropylene\/polyethylene co-polymer resins and by-product waxes in asphalt modification. Since these resins have a substantially higher melting point (above 140\u00b0 C.) than the base asphalt binder (approximately 60\u00b0 C.), the use of such resins has been excluded since the asphalt binder would degrade and become a fume emission hazard at such high temperatures. The technology described herein is novel in producing a compound of the PP Homo-polymer and\/or PP plus PE co-polymer such that the compound is uniquely dispersible in asphalt binder at the safe and usual operating temperatures. In some non-limiting embodiments, the polyolefin resin is combined with a binder (in some embodiments melted together). Without being limited by theory, applicants believe that when the particles of polyolefin resin\/binder are heated to the melt point of the binder, the binder materials quickly melt and physically partition the resin molecules such that the resin will fall apart in the hot\/warm asphalt base and disperse quickly and homogenously. In this way the additive value in certain embodiments may be realized to \u201cbump\u201d the high temperature PG to the desired level whilst at the same time taking the Low temperature PG value to the desired grade ie. the unique ability to \u201cstretch the PG box\u201d or escalate the useful performance temperature range of the asphalt binder.","A non-limiting example of suitable polyolefin materials include polypropylene (PP) homo-polymer having a molecular weight in the range of about 20,000 to about 200,000. A non-limiting example of suitable PP plus polyethylene (PE) co-polymer includes those having a molecular weight in the range of about 20,000 to about 200,000.","A second aspect of this novel invention is that the systems described herein meets the requirements of \u201cWarm Mix Asphalt Paving\u201d.","This invention describes an asphalt\/bitumen additive formulation that may be used in combination with modified or unmodified asphalt binder and aggregates to produce an aggregate paving mixture used to pave roads\/pavements. The primary rheology modifying component comprises a polyolefin homo-polymer and\/or copolymer in any ratio. Some non-limiting embodiments employ PP Homo-polymer resin or PP plus PE co-polymer resin or combinations of these in any ratio. As a non-limiting example, the resins described herein have a melting point range of 266\u00b0 F. (130\u00b0 C.) to 482\u00b0 F. (250\u00b0 C.) and above.","Some embodiments may employ a secondary rheology modifying component which may comprise a petroleum micro-wax obtained from conventional crude refining. This secondary rheology modifying component, or binder for the primary rheology modifying component, may act as a partitioning\/dispersion agent for the primary rheology modifying component, and can be any one of waxes, vegetable oils and most hydrocarbons in the melt point range of 70 C. to 135 C. This secondary rheology modifying component may be referred to herein as a binder, dispersant, or binding, dispersing or partitioning agent. As a non-limiting example, a suitable wax may have a melting point range between 140\u00b0 F. (60\u00b0 C.) to 239\u00b0 F. (115\u00b0 C.). In some non-limiting embodiments, it may be at times be desired to use a blend of two or more separate micro-waxes in the above melt range to achieve the desired rheology properties. The dispersing effect may also be achieved through the use of an additional component that is either Crude Tall Oil (CTO) or an oxidized Tall Oil Pitch. Non-limiting examples of other secondary rheology modifiers that may be used alone or in any combination may be Low Molecular Weight PE Waxes, Fischer-Tropsch Waxes, Petroleum Paraffin Waxes, Montan Wax, SBS, SBR, Natural and Synthetic Latex, Trinidad Lake Asphalt, Gilsonite and other natural asphalts, Crumbed Tire Rubber, etc. As a non-limiting example a polyethylene (\u201cPE\u201d) wax having a molecular weight in the range of about 650-2500, although a PE wax having a molecular weight greater or less than that range may also be suitable. As another non-limiting example, a Fischer-Tropsch wax having a molecular weight in the range of about 450-1200, although a Fischer-Tropsche wax having a molecular weight greater or less than that range may also be suitable.","The additive package described above may contribute to the Warm Mix in the following manner:","(a) In some non-limiting embodiments, the reduction in viscosity of the asphalt binder may be achieved through the combination of rheology\/viscosity modifiers described above, that in turn reduces the viscosity of the aggregate mix making it possible to compact the mix at the lower temperatures in the Warm Mix range.","(b) In some non-limiting embodiments, the CTO and or oxidized tall oil pitch acts as a dispersing agent for the polyolefin homo-polymer and co-polymer resins, and may further reduce the viscosity of the additive package thereby contributing to further improvements in compaction and increasing the useful paving window.","(c) In some non-limiting embodiments, the combination of polyolefin homo-polymer and co-polymer resins may contributes to the binder stiffness at the pavement performance temperature producing the effect of a performance grading grade bump.","(d) In some non-limiting embodiments, the combination of micro-waxes provides the effect of viscosity reduction at the paving temperatures while contributing to the binder and pavement flexibility at Low Temperatures during winter periods. In this way the stiffness of the binder may be offset at Low Temperature Performance.","(e) In some non-limiting embodiments, the CTO and oxidized CTO may perform as adhesive agents linking the asphalt binder to the aggregate surfaces.","Different combinations of the secondary rheology modification component may be used to achieve the specific desired specification\/property such that several grades of the additive may be commercially produced.","The additive invention described above can easily be used in any convential Hot Mix asphalt to reduce the asphalt mix production, transportation, paving and compaction temperatures. As a non-limiting examples, to reduce temperatures by between 10\u00b0 C. (50\u00b0 F.) to 32\u00b0 C. (90\u00b0 F.). The additive package may be first added to the asphalt binder and the so modified binder may be added to the aggregate mix in a continuous drum mixer or batch mixer. Also, the additive package may be added directly to the aggregate mix in a continuous drum mixer or a batch mixer immediately after the binder comes into contact with the aggregate.","The additive package may also be used for surface dressings such as hot applied chip seals, slurry seals and such surface dressings as a viscosity reducer and to eliminate the use of volatile cut back solvents and associated fume emissions. Such Warm Mix applications may also include coatings and sealants for moisture protection as well as solvent and chemical resistance mixtures.","The additive package described herein may also be used in Roofing applications as follows:","(1) In a non-limiting example for the manufacture of roofing shingles, the asphalt binder may be modified with the described additive package to meet the target specifications (Softening Point, Penetration, Flash Point, Ductility, Tensile Strength, and\/or UV restistance, etc.) and may then be coated onto the non-woven substrate (usually glass fiber).","(2) In a non-limiting example for the manufacture of Built Up Roofing (BUR) grades or Mopping Grades, the additive package described herein may be used to modify the asphalt binder to achieve the desired specifications (Softening Point, Penetration, Flash point, Ductility, Tensile Strength, etc.) and then used for Hot Applied or Emulsion Applied coatings.","(3) In a non-limiting example, the additive package may be used to manufacture adhesive coatings for roofing applications.","(4) In a non-limiting example, the additive package described herein may be used in asphalt feed stocks prior to blowing to harden the binder through oxidation. As a non-limiting example the additive package will be present in the at 0.5% up to 10% range by weight, although more than 10% and less then 0.5% are also believed to be beneficial. The benefits of this additive are reduced batch cycle times for example by 20% to 35%, less aging of the blown binder, lower viscosity and workability of the blown binder and easier achievement of target specifications. Also, this technology may enable the blow still to operate on a wider available pool of asphalts including fluxes and paving grades to achieve the same target specifications. In some embodiments in which the blow still can actually be operated at lower blow temperatures, a wider pool of asphalt may become available for blowing.","The polyolefin homo-polymer and copolymer utilized herein may be obtained by any suitable method and means, using any suitable catalyst as is well known in the polyolefin art. As a non-limiting example, suitable polyolefin may be derived from olefins having from about 2 to about 36 carbon atoms, or may comprise blends of two or more of such polyolefins, or may comprises copolymers of two or more such olefins. As a non-limiting example, PP homo-polymer and PP plus PE co-polymer may be derived from the manufacture of PP resins either as a by-product stream(s) or as intermediate grades during the change over form one grade to the next. These streams may be collected from the process and segregated into several qualities and which may be combined again to yield product that is suitable for specific asphalt applications either as such or in combination with the secondary rheology modifying agent described herein.","As a non-limiting embodiment, when manufactured as a compound, the resin or by-product wax content of the additive package may comprise in the range of 5% to 95% and preferably in the range of 50% to 85%. The Melting Point of the resin or by-product wax component is in the range of 120 C. (248 F.) to 200 C. (392 F.) and preferably in the range of 130 C. (266 F.) to 175 C. (347 F.).","In some non-limiting embodiment, the resin component may comprise a Needle Penetration at 77\u00b0 F. in the range of 0 to 10 (units being 0.1 mm).","The resin component or primary rheology portion serves as a one component of the rheology\/viscosity modifier and may also contribute to the overall binder stiffness at the pavement performance temperature as measured by the Dynamic Shear Rheometer.","Any suitable petroleum wax may be utilized in the present invention as desired. As a non-limiting example, the petroleum micro-wax may be derived from crude oil refining processes. One non-limiting example of a suitable petroleum was has a melting point in the range of 150\u00b0 F. (66\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.). A combination of two or more separate micro-wax streams may also be used at times to achieve the desired effect. In some embodiments, the micro-wax may serve a dual purpose of viscosity modifier as well as to impart Low Temperature Performance flexibility to the asphalt binder and pavement mix.","The content of micro-wax in the additive package can be in the range of from 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50 60, 70 80 wt % to 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 95, and 99 wt %. As non-limiting examples in the range of about 2 to 50 wt %, and in the range of 10 to 20 wt %.","In general, microcrystalline waxes are a type of wax produced by de-oiling petrolatum, as part of the petroleum refining process. In contrast to the more familiar paraffin wax which contains mostly unbranched alkanes, microcrystalline wax contains a higher percentage of isoparaffinic (branched) hydrocarbons and naphthenic hydrocarbons. It is characterized by the fineness of its crystals in contrast to the larger crystal of paraffin wax. It consists of high molecular weight saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons. It is generally darker, more viscous, denser, tackier and more elastic than paraffin waxes, and has a higher molecular weight and melting point. The elastic and adhesive characteristics of microcrystalline waxes are related to the non-straight chain components which they contain. Typical microcrystalline wax crystal structure is small and thin, making them more flexible than paraffin wax.","Microcrystalline waxes when produced by wax refiners are typically produced to meet a number of ASTM specifications. These include congeal point (ASTM D938), needle penetration (D1321), color (ASTM D6045), and viscosity (ASTM D445). Microcrystalline waxes can generally be put into two categories: \u201claminating\u201d grades and \u201chardening\u201d grades. The laminating grades typically have a melt point of 140-175 F. and needle penetration of 25 or above. The hardening grades will range from about 175-200 F., and have a needle penetration of 25 or below. Color in both grades can range from brown to white, depending on the degree of processing done at the refinery level.","Microcrystalline waxes are derived from the refining of the heavy distillates from lubricant oil production. This by product then must be de-oiled at a wax refinery. The product then may have its odor removed and color removed (which typically starts as a brown or dark yellow). This is usually done by means of a filtration method or by hydro-treating the wax material.","A non-limiting example of a suitable crude oil derived micro-wax may have the following properties: Drop Melt Point (ASTM D 127) in the range of 150\u00b0 F. (66\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.); and Kinematic Viscosity (ASTM D445) at 212\u00b0 F. (100\u00b0 C.) in the range 10 to 320 centi-stokes.","Any suitable Crude Tall Oil and Oxidized Tall Oil Pitch Component may be utilized in the present invention. As a non-limiting example, the crude tall oil and oxidized tall oil pitch component can be in the range of 2% to 20% of the formulation and preferably in the range of 2% to 10% of the formulation. The function of the oxidized tall oil pitch is as a dispersant for the resins so that it is evenly distributed in the final asphalt mixture to impart a consistent stiffness modulus to the asphalt binder as well as to the asphalt mix.","As used herein, including the claims, \u201ctall oil materials\u201d includes man made and naturally occurring tall oil, tall oil pitch, tall oil blends, and similar tall oil products. Tall oil is a liquid resinous material that may be obtained in the digestion of wood pulp from paper manufacture. Commercial tall oils comprise a complex of fatty acids, resin acids, sterols, higher alcohols, waxes and hydrocarbons. The acid components also may be present as the esters thereof.","A common source of tall oil that may be used in the practice of the present invention is from pine trees. Besides cellulose, tall oil contains fatty acids, esters, rosin acids, sterols, terpenes, carbohydrates and lignin. These may be separated when wood is converted to paper pulp by the sulfide or Kraft process. The acids may then be neutralized in an alkaline digestion liquor. The mixture of rosin and fatty acid soap may be recovered by subsequent acidification that releases free rosin and fatty acids, the major constituents of tall oil.","A non-limiting example of a suitable oxidized tall oil pitch may have the following properties: Softening Point in the range of 125\u00b0 F. (52\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.); and Needle Penetration value at 25\u00b0 C. in the range of 2 to 40 and preferably in the range of 5 to 20.","Some embodiments of the additive package of the present invention described herein may provide one or more of the following advantages over other Warm Mix products:","(a) Some non-limiting embodiments may be in the form of a one pack product that can be easily transported globally and handled to be added either to the asphalt binder and then to the aggregate mix as modified binder or it may be added directly to the aggregate mixing drum.","(b) In some non-limiting embodiments, the aggregate particles may be evenly coated with binder due to the lower surface tension imparted by the additive package to the binder. Also, the aggregate coated binder is not as sticky as conventionally mixed aggregate and this influences the workability of the aggregate mix and makes to less sticky onto transportation and paving equipment. Also, the compacted pavement may support traffic quickly without having any issues of stickiness onto traffic wheels.","(c) In some non-limiting embodiments, the high temperature PG (ie. the stiffness modulus) of the additive modified binder may be improved without or with little degrading of the Low Temperature PG.","(d) In some non-limiting embodiments, the additive may be detected and quantified in binder samples or aggregate mix samples or field core samples at any time during the life of the pavement and this is unlike most Warm Mix technologies that merely dissipate and can no longer be detected with passage of time.","Some embodiments of the present invention may incorporate one or more other Rheology Modifying Components. Non-limiting examples of such components may be as follows.","1. Polyethylene By-Product Waxes (\u201cpolyethylene waxes\u201d or \u201cPE waxes\u201d) in the melt Point range of 100 C. to 160 C. The content of the by-product PE wax can be in the range of 5% to 50% and preferably 5% to 20%. The purpose of the by-product PE wax is as a dispersant for the resin component as well as viscosity modifier.","2. Fischer-Tropsch Hard Wax in the melting point range of 70 C. to 115 C. in the same content as described in (1) above.","3. SBS (styrene butadiene styrene), SB (styrene butadiene), SEBS (styrene ethylene butadiene styrene), SBR (stryrene butadiene rubber), Natural and Synthetic Latex, Crumb Tire Rubber and Elvaloy Terpolymer in the same content as described in (1) above.","4. Trinidad Lake Asphalt (TLA), Gilsonite, Montan Waxes and natural Rubber in the same content as described in (1) above.","5. Petroleum micro waxes as described above.","A non-limiting example of the present invention includes first contacting the polymer and the dispersant together prior to adding either to the asphalt. As a non-limiting example, the polymer and the dispersant may both be melted and then thoroughly mixed together before being reformed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. The melting may be accomplished separately with the melted materials then added together, or may be accomplished separately but simultaneously with the melted materials then added together, or may be accomplished simultaneously with the unmelted materials contacted together and then melted, or may be accomplished sequentially with the melted materials then added together, or may be accomplished by first melting one than contacting it with the unmelted one and then further melting of both. As another non-limiting example, polymer particles may be mixed into the melted dispersant with this mixture then formed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. As even another non-limiting example, a dry mix of polymer particles and polymer particles may first be formed, and this mix added directly to the asphalt, or the dry mix may then be melted and formed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. As a further non-limiting example, the invention may also include use of a cross-linking pre-cursor is incorporated into the mixture to initiate active sites on the PP molecule chain and create a network structure in asphalt to give unique stiffness modulus properties, separation, stability and UV light protection. In the practice of the present invention, selected additives are chosen that are effective dispersing agents that partition between the PP molecules and thereby cause the PP to fall apart and disperse in asphalt binders. The polymer and dispersant may be formed into particles utilizing any suitable method\/apparatus, including extrusion and subsequent cutting, pelletizing and the like. As a non-limiting embodiment, pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polyolefin and a wax. A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polyolefin and wax together in any desired order (i.e., sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing, sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture, simultaneously apart and then mixing, simultaneously together, or any other suitable order\/arrangement). Particles, pellets, pills or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion, pelletizing, cutting, chopping and the like.","In even another non-limiting embodiment pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polypropylene homopolymer or polypropylene\/polyethylene copolymer and a wax. A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polymer and wax together in any desired order (i.e., sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing, sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture, simultaneously apart and then mixing, simultaneously together, or any other suitable order\/arrangement). Particles, pellets, pills or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion, pelletizing, cutting, chopping and the like.","In still another non-limiting embodiment pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polypropylene homopolymer or polypropylene\/polyethylene copolymer, and a polyethylene wax or a petroleum micro wax. A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polymer and wax together in any desired order (i.e., sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing, sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture, simultaneously apart and then mixing, simultaneously together, or any other suitable order\/arrangement). Particles, pellets, pills or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion, pelletizing, cutting, chopping and the like. In some non-limiting embodiments the binder may comprise a polyethylene wax. In some non-limiting embodiments the binder may comprise a petroleum micro wax.","It is believed that any known asphalt composition or product may be made using the additives of the present invention to replace part or all of the petroleum based asphalt binder therein. Non-limiting examples include blown asphalt and straight asphalt. As a non-limiting example, a paving application may be formed utilizing a straight asphalt. The known equipment and methods of making the known asphalt compositions and products are believed to be sufficient for making the asphalt compositions and products of the present invention in which part or all of the petroleum based asphalt has been partially or wholly replaced by modified asphalt of the present invention.","In addition to the above embodiments, the present invention may also include the following non-limiting embodiments.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include a one product additive package formulation for asphalt modification which comprises PP homo-polymer plus PE by-product wax and\/or petroleum micro-wax and\/or CTO and\/or Oxidized Tall Oil Pitch and\/or any of the Other Rheology Modifying Agents above. In some embodiments, the additive may increase the useful performance temperature range of the asphalt binder which may already be modified or not.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above which may be used as the Warm Mix Asphalt Paving concept.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above and which may be used in roofing applications.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the PE Wax described above that is derived as a by product wax from polyethylene manufacture in the Softening Point range of 215\u00b0 F. (102\u00b0 C.) to 275\u00b0 F. (135\u00b0 C.), Needle penetration value at 25\u00b0 C. in the range of 2 to 10 and Brookfield Viscosity at 300\u00b0 F. in the range of 15 to 300 cps.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the Petroleum Micro-Wax described in the invention above that is derived from crude oil refining and has a Drop Melt Point (ASTM D127) in the range of 150\u00b0 F. (66\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.) and Kinematic Viscosity (ASTM D445) at 212\u00b0 F. (100\u00b0 C.) in the range of 10 to 320 Centi-Stokes.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the oxidized tall oil pitch described above with a Softening Point in the range of 125\u00b0 F. (52\u00b0 C.) to 220\u00b0 F. (104\u00b0 C.).","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above used with neat asphalt binder or with polymer modified binder (including Styrene Butadiene Styrene, Styrene Butadiene Rubber, Natural Latex Rubber, Synthetic Latex Rubber, Crumbed Tire Rubber, Ethylene Vinyl Acetate, Ter-polymers, Atactic Polypropylene).","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package above used in roofing applications (including shingles, rolls, mop on grades, adhesives and sealants) to reduce working temperatures and enhance workability.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above used in hot applied surface dressings including chip seals, slurry seals, joint sealants, crack sealants, etc.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include a Warm Mix asphalt mix formulation for the pavement of road surfaces where the formulation comprises of a mixture of bitumen and aggregates and between 0.2 to 30% by weight of the additive package based on weight of the asphalt binder content.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the formulation of above wherein the temperature of compaction of the aggregate mix is 10\u00b0 F. to 90\u00b0 F. below conventional Hot Mix asphalt.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the asphalt formulation above where the additive package may be added to the drum mixer or batch mixer directly or added to the asphalt binder and then introduced into the drum mixer or batch mixer as additive modified binder.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the Warm Mix asphalt of above wherein the additive package is added to produce a Warm Mix aggregate, and also include embodiments wherein the individual components of the additive package are added to produce the Warm Mix aggregate.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above for use in co-extrusion with polymers and wax additives to render these more easily dispersible in asphalt binders. These co-extrusion components may be any of the primary and\/or secondary rheology modifying components mentioned above.","Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention include the use of the Intermediate PP homo-polymer and PP plus PE co-polymer as such for asphalt modification for Pavement and Roofing applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"Base Asphalt","Base Asphalt"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"plus 4%","plus 4%"]},{"entry":[{},"Method","Base Asphalt","Additive A","Additive B"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Continuous PG Grade",{},"68.4-24.2","78.9-23.03","75.3-23.69"]},{"entry":["Rotational Visco. at 270 F., cps","TP 48"]},{"entry":["Rotational Visco. at 300 F., cps","TP 48"]},{"entry":["Rotational Voisc. at 135 C., cps","TP 48","0.56","1280.00","1030"]},{"entry":["Dynamic Shear Rheometer:","T315"]},{"entry":["Temperature Pass, C.",{},"67.00","76.00","70.00"]},{"entry":["Phase Angle",{},{},"68.10","82.00"]},{"entry":["G* at 10 rad\/sec, kPa.",{},{},"1.62","1.76"]},{"entry":["G*\/sin delta at 10 rad\/sec., kPa.",{},"1.27","1.74","1.77"]},{"entry":["Temperarure Fail, C.",{},"69.00","82.00","76.00"]},{"entry":["Phase Angle",{},{},"64.80","83.80"]},{"entry":["G* at 10 rad\/sec, kPa.",{},{},"1.00","0.93"]},{"entry":["G*\/sin delta at 10 rad\/sec., kPa.",{},{},"1.10","0.94"]},{"entry":["Pass\/Fail, Temp. C.",{},{},"83.10","75.30"]},{"entry":"RTFO Residue Tests:"},{"entry":["Mass Loss, %","T240","0.06","0.27","\u22120.26"]},{"entry":["Dynamic Shear Rheometer","T315","2.62"]},{"entry":["Temperature Pass, C.",{},"68.40","76.00","70.00"]},{"entry":["Phase Angle",{},{},"73.30","76.80"]},{"entry":["G* at 10 rad\/sec, kPa.",{},{},"2.83","4.76"]},{"entry":["G*\/sin delta at 10 rad\/sec., kPa.",{},{},"2.95","4.83"]},{"entry":["Tempersture Fail, C.",{},{},"82.00","76.00"]},{"entry":["Phase Angle",{},{},"74.00","79.20"]},{"entry":["G* at 10 rad\/sec, kPa.",{},{},"1.55","2.35"]},{"entry":["G*\/sin delta at 10 rad\/sec., kPa.",{},{},"1.60","2.39"]},{"entry":["Temperature Pass\/Fail, C.",{},{},"78.90","76.70"]},{"entry":"PAV Residue Tests:"},{"entry":["Dynamic Shear Rheometer","T315"]},{"entry":["Temperature, C.",{},"25.00","28.00","28.00"]},{"entry":["Phase Angle",{},{},"43.00","41.90"]},{"entry":["G* at 10 rad\/sec, kPa.",{},{},"2590.00","3860.00"]},{"entry":["G*\/sin delta at 10 rad\/sec., kPa.",{},{},"1770.00","2580.00"]},{"entry":["Bending Beam Rheometer","T313"]},{"entry":["Temperature Pass, C.",{},"\u221212.00","\u221212.00","\u221212.00"]},{"entry":["Stiffness, 60 s, Mpa",{},"104.00","142.00","147.00"]},{"entry":["M-value, 60 s",{},"0.35","0.31","0.31"]},{"entry":["Temperature Fail, C.",{},{},"\u221218.00","\u221218.00"]},{"entry":["Stiffness, 60 s, Mpa",{},{},"283.00","300.00"]},{"entry":["M-value, 60 s",{},{},"0.27","0.27"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Additional Dynamic Shear Rheometer (DSR) Data Demonstrating Effectiveness"},{"entry":"of PP Compounds in High Temperature Performance Grading"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Phase","Test"]},{"entry":[{},"Composition, %",{},"G*\/","Angle","Temper-"]},{"entry":["Sample Reference","m\/m of Additive","G*","Sind","Degrees","ature, C."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Base Valero PG 67-22",{},"1.00","1.01","84.2","67"]},{"entry":["3% SB2in V67-22","85% PP (stream 1)","0.73","0.75","75.8","82"]},{"entry":[{},"plus 15% PE Wax","1.28","1.31","76.5","76"]},{"entry":["4% SB2 in V67-22","85% PP (stream 1)","1.42","1.49","72.0","82"]},{"entry":[{},"plus 15% PE Wax"]},{"entry":["6% SB2 in V67-22","85% PP (stream 1)","1.14","1.26","64.5","88"]},{"entry":[{},"plus 15% PE Wax"]},{"entry":["3% SB3 in V67-22","85% PP (stream 2)","0.84","0.85","82.5","76"]},{"entry":[{},"plus 15% PE Wax","1.64","1.66","81.3","70"]},{"entry":["3% SB4 in V67-22","85% PP (stream 2)","0.81","0.82","84.4","76"]},{"entry":[{},"plus PE Wax","1.66","1.67","83.0","70"]},{"entry":["3% SB5 in V67-22","100% PP (Stream 2)","0.87","0.88","84.0","76"]},{"entry":[{},{},"1.76","1.78","82.6","70"]},{"entry":["3% SB6 in V67-22","42.5% PP Wax Stream","0.97","0.98","82.5","76"]},{"entry":[{},"1) plus 42.5% PP","1.95","1.97","81.4","70"]},{"entry":[{},"Wax (stream 2) plus"]},{"entry":[{},"15% PE Wax"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Notes:"},{"entry":"1. Additive A = 85% Resin plus 15% PE By-Product Wax and Continuous PG grade escalated from PG 68.4-24.2 to PG 78.9-23.03. This represents binder PG improvement of 2 full grades."},{"entry":"2. Additive B = 80% Resin plus 20% Micro-Wax and Continuous PG grade escalated from PG 68.4-24.2 to PG 75.3-23.9. This represents a full one PG improvement in binder grade. A marginal incresae in Additive B will meet the PG 76-22 Grade."},{"entry":"3. Unlike Fischer-Tropsch Waxes and other Plastomeric additives, the Low temperature grading is not negatively impacted."},{"entry":"4. The Rotational Viscosity of the modified Asphalt blends are less than 50% of the specified maximum viscosity of 3,000 cps at 135 C. This substantial lower viscosity will reduce the viscosity of the aggregate mix in a corresponding manner and will result in Warm Mix Asphalt benefits."}]}}]}}},"The follow data shows PP compound (Rheopave 100) improving the separation stability in Crumbed Rubber Asphalt formulations",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"CIGAR","CIGAR","ORIGINAL",{}]},{"entry":[{},"TUBE","TUBE","DSR @","RV @"]},{"entry":["BLEND","TOP","BOTTOM","76\u00b0 C.","300\u00b0 F."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","139.4\u00b0 F.","163.5\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":"80 IN V67-22"},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","151.5\u00b0 F.","153.5\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":["80 IN V67-","RETEST:","RESTES:"]},{"entry":["22 + 1%","150.7\u00b0 F.","152.9\u00b0 F."]},{"entry":"RHEOPAVE 100"},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","135.1\u00b0 F.","161.6\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":"40 IN V67-22"},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","145.7\u00b0 F.","160.0\u00b0 F.","G*Sin(\u03b4) =","1740 cps"]},{"entry":["40 IN V67-",{},{},"2.33 KPa"]},{"entry":["22 + 1% SBS",{},{},"Phase Angle ="]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"75.6\u00b0"]},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","150.1\u00b0 F.","149.5\u00b0 F.","G*Sin(\u03b4) =","1550 cps"]},{"entry":["40 IN V67-",{},{},"2.07 KPa"]},{"entry":["22 + 1%",{},{},"Phase Angle ="]},{"entry":["RHEOPAVE 100",{},{},"77.4\u00b0"]},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","140.0\u00b0 F.","163.2\u00b0 F.","G*Sin(\u03b4) =","1445 cps"]},{"entry":["40 IN V67-",{},{},"1.91 KPa"]},{"entry":["22 + 0.5%",{},{},"Phase Angle ="]},{"entry":["RHEOPAVE 100",{},{},"79.0\u00b0"]},{"entry":["10% GTR MESH","149.4\u00b0 F.","150.3\u00b0 F.","G*Sin(\u03b4) =","1630 cps"]},{"entry":["40 IN V67-",{},{},"2.39 KPa"]},{"entry":["22 + 0.5%",{},{},"Phase Angle ="]},{"entry":["SBS + 0.5%",{},{},"76.3\u00b0"]},{"entry":"RHEOPAVE 100"},{"entry":["SFMC ARB-5","126.0\u00b0 F.","145.0\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2002550 cps"]},{"entry":["SFMC ARB-","130.1\u00b0 F.","145.5\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":"5 + 0.5%"},{"entry":"RHEOPAVE 100"},{"entry":["SFMC ARB-","136.0\u00b0 F.","138.8\u00b0 F.","\u2014","\u2002795 cps"]},{"entry":"5 + 1%"},{"entry":"RHEOPAVE 100"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Hamburg Wheel"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Rut Depth @ 20,000","Total Passes to 12.5 mm"]},{"entry":[{},"Passes, mm","Rut Depth"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Mix","Sample","Sample",{},"Sample","Sample",{}]},{"entry":["Type","1","2","Average","1","2","Average"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PG 76-22","6.392","5.549","5.971","95,130","173,593","134,362"]},{"entry":["GTR","8.792","9.727","9.260","54,328","49,580","51,954"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Based upon the Hamburg testing criteria set forth by the Texas Department of Transportation, shown in Table 4, both samples meet the Hamburg criteria for a PG 76 and above high temperature grade. Stripping inflection points were not observed for either mixture.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Minimum # of Passes @ 12.5"]},{"entry":[{},"High Temperature Binder","mm Rut Depth, Tested @"]},{"entry":[{},"Grade","122\u00b0 F."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"PG 64 or Lower","10,000"]},{"entry":[{},"PG 70","15,000"]},{"entry":[{},"PG 76 or Higher","20,000"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The present disclosure is to be taken as illustrative rather than as limiting the scope or nature of the claims below. Numerous modifications and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art after studying the disclosure, including use of equivalent functional and\/or structural substitutes for elements described herein, use of equivalent functional couplings for couplings described herein, and\/or use of equivalent functional actions for actions described herein. Any insubstantial variations are to be considered within the scope of the claims below."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
