---
title: Load-minimizing, trolley arrester apparatus and method
abstract: A system comprising a cable held in suspension and a trolley traveling along the cable relies on a brake to control velocity and net downhill acceleration of the trolley. The trolley may include a brake pad positioned to contact the cable. At the downhill end of the ride, the lever actuating the brake is caught and lifted by a capture ring, thus relieving the braking load on the trolley. Also, the trolley engages a comparatively modest, second resistance mechanism, such as, for example, a system of springs, that gradually increases in resistance with distance of motion of the trolley thereagainst, bringing the trolley to a gradual halt.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08191482&OS=08191482&RS=08191482
owner: 
number: 08191482
owner_city: Park City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110601
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/233,270, filed Sep. 18, 2008, entitled LOAD-MINIMIZING, TROLLEY ARRESTER APPARATUS AND METHOD (now U.S. Pat. No. 7,966,940), and is a continuation-in-part of application Ser. No. 11\/605,853, filed Nov. 28, 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,637,213, issued Dec. 29, 2009, entitled UNIVERSAL BRAKE ASSEMBLY, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/168,101, filed Jun. 28, 2005, now abandoned, and are hereby incorporated by reference.","1. The Field of the Invention","This invention relates to suspended cable systems and, more particularly, to novel systems and methods for braking and retrieving trolleys traveling on suspended cable systems.","2. The Background Art","Weather conditions such as temperature and wetness affect the performance of typical trolleys configured to slide or roll along suspended cables. For example, rain on a cable may significantly change the coefficient of fiction between a trolley brake and the cable. Accordingly, a trolley brake that is acceptable for dry conditions, may be unacceptable for wet conditions. Thus, operators must closely monitor weather conditions when using current trolleys. What is needed is a trolley brake providing acceptable performance across a greater range of weather conditions.","Many trolley systems, sometimes called Ziplines, provide no braking. They simply use a cable declining at a shallow angle in which a rise at the lower end slows a user. Others may have a brake set at a fixed parameter. Also, current trolleys do not provide a user control \u201con-the-fly\u201d over the magnitude of a braking force or friction force generated by the trolley as it travels along a cable. That is, to one degree or another, a user or knowledgeable operator must preselect the braking force or the range of braking force to be provided by the trolley. Once selected, the arrangement is not easily or safely changed without stopping the trolley and relieving the trolley of the user's weight. In certain embodiments, legal liability and user inexperience may favor such inflexibility. However, in other embodiments, greater user control may be desirable. Accordingly, what is needed is a trolley providing safe, \u201con-the-fly\u201d adjustment between minimum braking and maximum braking.","Furthermore, when using a trolley as the basis for an amusement ride, revenue may largely depend on the number operators employed to operate the ride and throughputs the number of users served within a given period of time. Currently, to a large degree, safety concerns dictate the numbers for both. For example, one of the potential hazards of an amusement ride employing a trolley is the possibility of collision. A first rider may ride a first trolley to some location along a cable. Assuming that the first rider has reached the bottom and exited the ride, a second rider may ride a second trolley down the same cable. Accordingly, if the first rider did not actually reach the lower end due to over-braking, serious injury may occur when the second rider collides with the first rider. What is needed is a trolley retrieval system configured to maximize user throughput, minimize operator interaction, and reduce or eliminate the risk of collision.","In view of the foregoing, in accordance with the invention as embodied and broadly described herein, a method and apparatus are disclosed in one embodiment of the present invention as including a trolley comprising a frame, a brake assembly, and a sheave mount. In selected embodiments, a brake assembly in accordance with the present invention may provide significant adjustability. For example, a brake assembly may include a brake pad that may be removed and replaced, should wear so dictate. Additionally, a brake pad may itself be readily adjustable to provide a desired or customized braking effect to suit conditions.","Various material properties and characteristics may be considered when selecting a material for a brake pad in accordance with the present invention. Often a material that has certain advantageous characteristics may have others that are disadvantageous. For example, one material may have excellent wear resistance, but its coefficient of friction against a cable may vary greatly depending on whether the cable is dry. Accordingly, the material may be suitable for dry conditions, yet be hazardous for wet conditions.","In certain embodiments, it may be advantageous to provide a brake pad having repeatable and consistent performance with respect to wear, coefficient of friction, or the like regardless of temperature, wetness, etc. To provide the advantages of a brake pad in accordance with the present invention, a brake pad may be formed of various segments, typically positioned in series. So positioned, the width of each segment may control the contact area between each segment and the cable. The contact area may vary between segments. For example, in certain embodiments, one segment may have a width greater than the width of another segment. Accordingly, the former segment may provide a greater contribution to the overall performance of the brake pad than the latter segment.","By controlling the composition of the segments, the contact area of the segments, and the gaps between the segments, the performance of a brake pad may be optimized to a given trolley application. For example, in selected embodiments, it may be desirable for a brake pad in accordance with the present invention to slide along a cable. That is, the brake pad may reduce the speed of the trolley along the cable , but not overly slow or stop it.","Accordingly, in one embodiment, certain segments may be formed of a first, substantially inelastic material (e.g., high density polyethylene (HDPE), ultra high molecular weight (UHMW) polyethylene, or the like). The rest of the segments may be formed a second, elastic material (e.g., multi-rubber or elastomeric materials such as are used for the caliper brake pads of a bicycle). Elastomers may strip water from a surface, but typically do not wear as well as other polymers. Accordingly, overall, the brake pad may have both acceptable wear and frictional engagement even when applied to a wet cable. By adjusting the number of segments corresponding to the first and second materials and the contact areas associated with those segments, a proper balance of characteristics may be achieved.","In selected embodiments, a trolley in accordance with the present invention may provide a user (e.g. operator, or rider in some circumstances) \u201con-the-fly\u201d control over the magnitude of a braking force generated by the trolley as it travels along a cable. For example, by adjusting the moment arm (e.g. leverage) at which the weight of a user is applied to the frame of a trolley, the magnitude of the resulting moment may be controlled. The magnitude of the moment may then dictate the magnitude of the normal force against the cable generating the frictional braking force. Accordingly, by adjusting the moment arm at which the weight of a user is applied to the frame of a trolley, a user may control, within a particular range, the speed of the trolley for a particular catenary, or naturally hanging cable.","In selected embodiments, a trolley may include a carriage configured to secure to, operate with, and be adjusted with respect to a frame or portion of a frame throughout a range of motion bounded by a first position of the carriage and a second position of the carriage with respect to the frame. A carriage may move along the frame through the range of motion without compromising the connection between a user and the cable. Accordingly, adjustment of the position of the carriage with respect to the frame, and the resulting adjustment to the braking force, may safely be accomplished in any suitable manner while the trolley including the carriage and frame is in motion along the cable.","In certain embodiments, absent contrary inputs or forces, a carriage may, under the impetus of gravitational acceleration, move toward the second position. At the second position, the braking force may be at a maximum. Accordingly, a trolley in accordance with the present invention may have a default configuration corresponding to maximum braking, which, given typical cable declination, is sufficient to bring the trolley to a halt, such as in the event of any failure of the trolley.","Trolleys in accordance with the present invention may be used as the basis for an amusement ride. For such rides, revenue may largely depend on the number of operators employed to operate the ride and the number of users served within a given period of time. Accordingly, a trolley retrieval system in accordance with the present invention may be configured to maximize user throughput, minimize operator interaction, and increase safety.","In selected embodiments, a trolley retrieval system may include multiple cables held in suspension between first and second supports. A retrieval line may be suspended in an open line or in a closed loop extending from proximate a start area to proximate a finish area. A closed loop is more readily controllable and less likely to tangle or fail to deploy properly. A motivator (e.g. motor) may selectively circulate the retrieval line back and forth or around the loop. A controller may control operation of the motivator.","In certain embodiments, a controller may include a processor and one or more sensors. The sensors may be operably connected to the processor to pass thereto a stop signal informing the processor that one or more of trolleys is sufficiently near the start area. The processor may be programmed to issue, in response to the stop signal, a stop command causing the motivator to cease circulation or other operation of the retrieval line. The processor may be further programmed to issue, in further response to the stop signal, a reverse command causing the motivator to reel in or circulate the retrieval line in an opposite direction when it resumes circulation of the retrieval line. For example, a motive source may comprise an electric motor. In such an embodiment, the controller of such a motivator may include a polarity switch switching, in response to the reverse command, the polarity of the current supplied to the electric motor. A controller may further include a retrieval switch operably connected to cause, when activated, the motivator to resume circulation of the retrieval line.","In operation, an amusement ride in accordance with the present invention may begin with selection of a system comprising one or more cables held in suspension between first and second supports and a trolley positioned to travel along each cable. A user may then be connected to the trolley. Following securement of a user into a harness or possibly of a harness or seat of a user thereto, the trolley may be released to travel along the cable from proximate the start area to proximate the finish area. At the finish area, the user may be disconnected from the trolley. The trolley may then be connected to a retrieval line. Safety will usually favor fastening a user into a harness already connected to the main support cable rather than connecting and disconnecting harnesses and trolleys from a main support cable.","Once a trolley is connected to a retrieval line, the motivator may be activated to draw the trolley along the cable from proximate the finish area to proximate the start area. When one or more of the trolleys connected to a retrieval line activates a sensor, the motivator may stop the retrieval line. The trolley or trolleys may then be disconnected from the retrieval line and secured for future use.","As stated hereinabove, in selected embodiments, a processor may be programmed to issue, in response to a stop signal, a reverse command causing the motivator to circulate the retrieval line in an opposite direction when it resumes circulation of the retrieval line. So configured, the engagement locations between a retrieval line and a trolley may travel in a cycle from the starting (e.g. loading, launching) area to the finishing (e.g. end, unloading) area and back. Moreover, while one engagement location is stopped at the starting area, another may be stopped at the finish area.","Accordingly, while one or more trolleys are being loaded with users, other trolleys may be connected to a retrieval line. Also, while one or more trolleys are towed or pulled back up from the finish area to the start area, other engagement locations on the retrieval line may be returning to the finish to continue the cyclical pattern. So configured, a trolley retrieval system in accordance with the present invention may provide a substantially continuous throughput, minimize operator interaction, and increase safety.","In selected embodiments, an apparatus and method in accordance with the present invention may minimize force loads and distribute impulse loads of arrest in a trolley. In certain embodiments, this method may begin with providing a trolley traveling along a suspended cable. The trolley may be freed to travel down the cable under the impetus of a gravitational force. A braking force may be applied between the trolley and the cable to control the speed of the trolley as it travels along the cable.","When it becomes necessary to stop the trolley (e.g., at the end of the cable), the braking force may be relieved or reduced. In selected embodiments, a portion of the kinetic energy corresponding to the trolley may be used to lift the frame of the trolley and a rider suspended therefrom. This may result in a pivoting of the frame and the desired reducing of the braking force generated by the trolley. Additionally, at least a portion of the kinetic energy corresponding to the trolley may be transferred into a deflecting element deflecting along the direction of the cable. In such an embodiment, the slowing of the trolley may take on the characteristics of the deflecting element, rather than the characteristics of the trolley's on-board brake.","It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention, as generally described and illustrated in the drawings herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus, the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the system and method of the present invention, as represented in the drawings, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention, as claimed, but is merely representative of various embodiments of the invention. The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the drawings, wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout.","Referring to , in discussing a trolley  in accordance with the present invention, it may be advantageous to establish a coordinate system . Accordingly, a trolley  may be defined in terms of a longitudinal direction , a lateral direction , and a transverse direction , substantially orthogonal to one another.","A trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be configured for travel along a cable  in the longitudinal direction . In general, a trolley  of the present invention may be applied to a cable  held in suspension by two or more supports. For example, as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,622,634 issued Sep. 23, 2003 and entitled AMUSEMENT RIDE EMPLOYING A SUSPENDED TENSIONED STATIC CABLE, which is incorporated herein by reference, a cable  may be supported between two supports (e.g., towers, platforms). A first support may hold one end of the cable  at a higher elevation than a second support holds the other end of the cable . Accordingly, a trolley  secured to roll along the cable  may tend to travel from the first, upper support toward the second, lower support.","While a suspended cable  may provide the basis for an amusement ride, other uses are also contemplated. For example, a suspended cable  may be used as part of a lift system transporting persons or goods over or up certain geologic obstacles. Suspended cables  are commonly used on ski lifts, gondolas, aerial trams, and the like. Similarly, suspended cables  have been incorporated into evacuation systems (e.g., oil derrick evacuation systems). Whether for repair, evacuation, or as part of the system itself, such suspended cable  systems often require a trolley  in accordance with the present invention.","In selected embodiments, a frame  may provide the main structure of the trolley  or a base to which other components may secure. A frame  may be formed of any suitable material or combination of materials. Characteristics that may be considered when selecting the material for the frame  may include cost, formability, machineability, strength, rigidity, durability, corrosion resistance, density, etc. In certain embodiments, aluminum has been found to be a suitable material for a frame .","A frame  may extend from a first end  to a second end . In certain embodiments, a brake assembly  may connect to the frame  proximate the first end  thereof. Proximate the second end , a bumper assembly  may connect to the frame . In one embodiment, a bumper assembly  may include a bumper  held between two cheek plates . In selected embodiments, a bumper  may be formed of a friction-reducing polymeric material (e.g., HDPE, UHMWPE, PTFE). In other embodiments, a bumper  may be formed of an elastomeric (e.g. rubber compound) material.","A sheave mount  may connect to the frame  at a location between the brake assembly  and the second end . A sheave mount  may support one or more sheaves  positioned to roll along the cable . In selected embodiments, the portion  of the frame  between the sheave mount  and the second end  may be characterized as the user-suspension-portion . That is, the weight of a user may be directed to, and supported by, this portion  of the frame .","In certain embodiments, the frame  of a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be suspended below a cable  in the transverse direction . A sheave mount  may extend upwardly from the frame , positioning a sheave  to roll on an upper surface of the cable . A brake assembly  may extend upwardly from the frame  to contact a lower surface of the cable . With the brake assembly  and user-suspension portion  on opposite sides of the sheave mount , the weight  of a user applied to the user-suspension portion  may generate a torque  or moment  urging the brake assembly  to \u201cpitch\u201d against the underside of the cable  (i.e., generate or urge rotation about an axis extending in the lateral direction ). The greater the moment  generated, the greater the braking force or friction force produced by the brake assembly .","A carriage  may provide the primary interface between a user and a trolley  in accordance with the present invention. That is, while other locations, apertures, connection, structures, and the like may be used for redundant, fail-safe systems, in normal use, the majority of user weight  may be applied to the carriage . The carriage , in turn, may communicate that load to the frame .","The position of the carriage  with respect to the frame  may be adjusted to provided a desired braking force. For example, the greater the distance  between the sheave mount  and the carriage , the greater the moment  and resulting braking force. The opposite may also be true. That is, the braking force may be minimized by minimizing the moment arm  over which the weight  of a user may act.","Adjustability and securement between a carriage  and a frame  may be provided by any suitable structures. In selected embodiments, an array of apertures  may provide an array of positions at which a carriage  may be secured to a frame . A pin  or bolt  may pass through a carriage  and a selected aperture of the array  to lock the carriage  at a desired moment arm . Accordingly, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be tuned to a particular cable  arrangement. That is, a trolley  may be formed according to a single design, yet be flexible within that design to provide braking appropriate for a wide range of cable  arrangements.","For example, given a first cable  arrangement involving a comparatively larger change in elevation, a trolley  traveling on such a cable  may tend to reach excessive speeds. Thus, the carriage  may be secured to the frame  at an aperture  in the array of apertures  providing a corresponding, comparatively larger moment arm . This greater moment arm  may increase the braking force and keep the trolley  within acceptable speed ranges.","Conversely, consider a second cable  arrangement involving a minimal change in elevation. For such an arrangement, a carriage  secured at certain apertures (e.g., aperture ) may provided excessive braking. For example, the resultant braking may cause the trolley  to stop without reaching the unloading area at the bottom of the cable . According, for such arrangements, a carriage  may be secured to the frame  at an aperture  in the array of apertures  providing a minimal moment arm . By so positioning the carriage , the trolley  may provide greater speed along the cable .","While the weights of different users may vary, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may automatically compensate for such variations. For example, the braking force required to regulate the speed of a trolley  carrying a user weighing 200 lbs. may be significantly greater than the braking force required to regulate the speed of a trolley  carrying a user weighing 100 lbs. However, with a single setting of the carriage  (i.e., a single moment arm ), at trolley  may appropriately regulate the speed of both users.","The braking force generated by a trolley  is equal to the coefficient of friction between the brake assembly  and the cable  multiplied by the normal force urging the braking assembly  against the cable . For a single moment arm , the only variable becomes the weight  of the user. Accordingly, the normal force urging the braking assembly  against the cable , which is result of the moment  applied by the weight  of a user to the frame , controls the braking force. Thus, without adjusting the position of the carriage , the braking force generated for a user weighing 200 lbs. user will automatically be roughly twice that generated for a user weighing 100 lbs. That is, a trolley  may be tuned to a particular cable  arrangement, but need not be tuned for each user.","A trolley  in accordance with the present invention may include any desirable redundant or fail-safe systems. For example, in selected embodiments, a frame  may include a slot  within or along which the carriage  may travel. Accordingly, if the pin  holding the carriage  in a particular location were to fail, the carriage  would not be free to separate from the frame . Additionally, the orientation of the slot  with respect to the weight  of a user may urge an unpinned carriage  toward the end of the slot  corresponding to the second end  of the frame . At such a location, the moment arm  and corresponding braking force may be at a maximum. Accordingly, if a pin  were to fail, the link between the user and the cable  would not be lost and the trolley  would quickly be brought to a halt.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a sheave mount  in accordance with the present invention may be pivotably secured to a frame . For example, in certain embodiments, a bolt  may extend through the frame . If desired, a collar  may be positioned over the bolt  to improve wear resistance, increase the rigidity of the bolt , or the like.","In certain embodiments, to increase safety, a sheave mount  may provide an enclosure capturing a cable  therewithin. That is, once the sheave mount  has received a cable  therewithin, it may resist inadvertent removal of that cable . For example, in one embodiment, a sheave mount  may include a first side  extending from the bolt  to an aperture  for supporting a sheave . This first side  may include one or more ribs  to increase the rigidity and strength thereof. A top  of the sheave mount  may connect the first side  to a second side  of the sheave mount . In selected embodiments, the second side  may control admittance and release of a cable  from within the sheave mount .","In selected embodiments, the second side  of a sheave mount  may be separated into a hook portion  and a bail assembly . In one embodiment, the hook portion  may be connected to the top  and include an aperture  that, in combination with another aperture , may pivotably connect a sheave  to the sheave mount . A hook portion  may also include a hook .","A bail assembly  may include a bail  and a bail mount . A bail mount  may connect to the bolt  or collar  extending through the frame  from the first side  of the sheave mount . A bail  may, in turn, extend from the bail mount  to engage the hook  of the hook portion . In selected embodiments, a bail  may be biased toward a closed position with respect to the hook . Accordingly, in certain embodiments, a bail  may be moved (e.g., pivoted) to permit entry of a cable  into the sheave mount . Once the cable  is captured with the sheave mount , the bail  may be released to return automatically to its preferred (biased), closed position.","In selected embodiments, the interface between a bail  and a hook  may be such that the bail  is configured to open only toward the interior of the sheave mount . Thus, the bail  may be biased to permit entry of a cable  into the sheave mount  but resist inadvertent removal of that cable . As an additional safety feature, in certain embodiments, a bail mount  may include a slotted aperture  extending therethrough to receive the bolt , collar , or some combination thereof. A tensioner  may control the position of the bolt , collar , etc. within the slotted aperture .","Accordingly, once a cable  has been received within a sheave mount  and the bail  has returned to a closed position, the tensioner  may be adjusted to move the bail assembly  with respect to the bolt , collar , etc. Thus, the bail  may be pulled  firmly into engagement with the hook . In such an arrangement, the hook  may resist opening of the bail . Additionally, the bail assembly  may assist in transferring loads from a sheave  to the frame  of the trolley . That is, the first side  of the sheave mount  need not act alone, thereby increasing the load-bearing capacity, and corresponding safety factor, associated with the sheave mount .","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may include a brake assembly  that is pivotably secured to the frame . A pivotable connection between a brake assembly  and a frame  may support a more controlled and even wear on the break assembly .","In certain embodiments, to provide a pivoting securement between a brake assembly  and a frame , the frame  may include various apertures , . A pivot aperture  may be sized and shaped to receive a pivot bolt (i.e., a bolt about which the brake assembly  may pivot). A limiting aperture  may be sized and shaped to receive a limiting bolt (i.e., a bolt moving with the brake assembly  and abutting the extremes of the limiting aperture  when the brake assembly  reaches a desired limit to its pivoting).","In selected embodiments, a frame  may include multiple pivoting apertures , , . For example, a first pivoting aperture may provide a pivot point (e.g., central pivot point) for a brake assembly  of a first size. A second pivoting aperture may provide a pivot point for a brake assembly  of a second, smaller size. A third pivoting aperture may provide a pivot point for a brake assembly  of a third, even smaller size. If desired, multiple limiting apertures  may be provided. In one embodiment, however, a single limiting aperture  may be sized and shaped to providing a limiting effect to brake assemblies  pivoting in any of the various pivoting apertures .","Referring to , a brake assembly  in accordance with the present invention may provide significant adjustability. For example, a brake assembly  may include a brake pad  that may be removed and replaced, as wear so dictates. Additionally, a brake pad  may itself be adjustable to provide a desired or customized braking effect. In selected embodiments, a brake pad  may comprise a plurality of interchangeable brake pad segments . Thus, the sequence, composition, gaps, and the like of the various segments  may be selected to provide a desired resistance to wear, frictional coefficient, all-weather braking, and the like.","In certain embodiments, the various segments  of a brake pad  may be held in place by one or more brake shoes . For example, in one embodiment, a first brake shoe may engage one side of the brake pad , while a second brake shoe may engage the other side of the brake pad . Accordingly, in such an embodiment, the brake shoes  may securely hold the brake pad  therebetween.","In selected embodiments, the brake pad  and one or more brake shoes  may be configured to facilitate mutual engagement. For example, in one embodiment, the various segments  of a brake pad  may include one or more extensions . The brake shoes  may include one or more recesses  shaped and sized to receive the extensions . Accordingly, when assembled, the brake shoes  may secure the brake pad  in all three dimensions , , ","If desired or necessary, a brake assembly  may include various structural members providing additional strength, rigidity, safety, or the like. For example, in selected embodiments, a brake assembly  may include one or more cheek plates . In one embodiment, a brake assembly  may include a first cheek plate positioned to reinforce a first brake shoe and a second cheek plate positioned to reinforce a second brake shoe ","In certain embodiments, a cheek plate  may include various apertures to support desired functionality. For example, a cheek plate may include an aperture  sized and positioned to receive a limiting bolt, one or more apertures  sized and positioned to receive a pivot bolt, and one or more apertures  sized and positioned to receive assembly bolts or bolts securing the brake assembly  together. In selected embodiments, corresponding apertures , ,  may be formed in other cheek plates , as well as the various brake shoes .","In selected embodiments, a brake assembly  may include a groove  or slot  sized and positioned to accommodate a portion of the frame  therewithin. Accordingly, in such embodiments, a brake assembly  may effectively straddle the frame , permitting various fasteners (e.g., pivot bolts, limiting bolts, etc.) to pass through both the brake assembly  and the frame . If desired or necessary, a slot  may extend some distance less than the entire length of the brake assembly . For example, in one embodiment, opposing brake shoes , may each include a shoulder  extending to meet the other. The shoulders  may effectively close the slot . Accordingly, any fastener (e.g., assembly bolt) passing through the area of the shoulder  may be tightened without clamping the frame  and reducing the ability of the brake assembly  to pivot with respect to the frame .","A brake assembly  in accordance with the present invention may include a capture . A capture  may secure a cable  therewithin. That is, once a trolley  is applied to a cable , the capture  may secure the brake assembly  to the cable . Accordingly, the capture  may provide a redundant safety mechanism and, should there be a catastrophic failure of the sheave mount , the trolley  may be secured to the cable  via the brake assembly  and capture .","If desired, a capture  may include a slide . In certain embodiments, a slide  may provide an interface between a capture  and a cable . For example, a capture  may in certain situations slide along a cable . In such situations, a slide  may prevent abrasion or grinding that may reduce the structural integrity of the capture . In one embodiment, a slide  may include a groove  or slot  providing a preferred or default location of engagement between a slide  and a cable , should contact occur therebetween.","Referring to , a capture  in accordance with the present invention may have any suitable shape or configuration. Additionally, a capture  may secure to the rest of the brake assembly  in any suitable manner. For example, in one embodiment, a capture  may be positioned and secured to bracket the rest of the brake assembly . Such bracketing may improve the structural integrity of the brake assembly  without requiring additional fasteners (e.g., bolts), which may interfere with the adjustability or functionality of the brake assembly . Portions of the capture  may be held in place by one or more bolts extending in the lateral direction through the brake assembly . For example, in one embodiment, a capture  may be held in place by a limiting bolt  and an assembly bolt .","Referring to , various material properties and characteristics may be considered when selecting a material for a brake pad  in accordance with the present invention. Properties and characteristics that may be considered include cost, availability, machineability, wear resistance, toughness, all weather performance (e.g., characteristics at various conditions of humidity, moisture, corrosion, temperature, and the like), coefficient of friction against a cable  in various weather conditions (e.g., temperature and wetness levels), and the like. Often a material that has certain advantageous characteristics may have others that are disadvantageous. For example, one material may have excellent wear resistance, but its coefficient of friction against a cable  may vary greatly depending on whether the cable is dry. Accordingly, the material may be suitable for dry conditions, yet be hazardous for wet conditions.","In certain embodiments of a trolley  in accordance with the present invention, it may be advantageous to provide a brake pad  having repeatable and consistent performance with respect to wear, coefficient of friction, or the like regardless of temperature, wetness, etc. For example, by providing a brake pad  with consistent wear, fixed maintenance schedules may be determined and executed. The resulting decrease in subjectivity may be accompanied by an increase in consistency and safety. Similarly, by providing a brake pad  with a consistent coefficient of friction regardless of the wetness of the cable , rain need not concern an operator of a trolley  in accordance with the present invention. Again, the resulting decrease in subjectivity and weather dependence may be accompanied by an increase in consistency and safety.","In selected embodiments, a brake pad  may be configured to operate within a specific range. For example, a brake pad  may perform within a range, regardless of environmental temperature and the wetness or dryness of a cable . A brake pad  may deliver a rider to the bottom end of a cable  at a first speed in a dry environment at 90 degrees Fahrenheit. That same brake pad  may deliver a rider to the bottom end of a cable  at a second speed, different from the first speed, in a wet (e.g., saturated cable ) environment at 65 degrees Fahrenheit. However, the difference between the first and second speeds may be such that both are within an acceptable range. For example, while the first may be 20 miles per hour and the second may be 27 miles per hour, both speeds may be below a hypothetical safety cutoff of 35 miles per hour.","To provide the advantages of a brake pad  in accordance with the present invention, a brake pad  may be formed of various segments  The various segments  may be formed in various shapes and of various materials. As stated hereinabove, the shape of the various segments  may support engagement with the rest of the brake assembly  (e.g., the brake shoes ). The shape of the various segments  may also control the contact area between a segment  and a cable .","In selected embodiments, a brake pad  may include a plurality of segments  positioned in series. So positioned, the width of each segment  in the longitudinal direction may control the contact area between each segment  and the cable . The contact area may vary between segments . For example, in certain embodiments, one segment may have a width  greater than the width  of another segment . Accordingly, the former segment may provide a greater contribution to the overall performance of the brake pad  than the latter segment . Although friction forces are independent from the area engaged, wear is not.","If desired, gaps  may be included between various segments  of a brake pad . In certain embodiments, gaps  may improve the all weather performance of a brake pad . For example, when a cable  is saturated with water, the gaps  may provide locations for the water to escape from between the cable  and a segment  being pressed thereagainst. The size  or width  of the gaps  in a brake pad  may vary from a minimum of direct abutment between adjacent segments (e.g., segment and segment ) to some maximum.","By controlling the composition of the segments , the contact area of the segments , and the gaps  between the segments , the performance of a brake pad  may be optimized to a given trolley  application. For example, in selected embodiments, it may be desirable for a brake pad  in accordance with the present invention to slide along a cable . That is, the brake pad  may lower the speed of the trolley  along the cable , but not overly slow or stop it. Accordingly, in one embodiment, certain segments , , , may be formed of a first, substantially inelastic material (e.g., high density polyethylene (HDPE) or ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE)). The rest of the segments , , , may be formed a second, elastic material (e.g., multi-rubber or other natural or synthetic elastomeric materials such as those used for the caliper brake pads of a bicycle).","So arranged, the first material may provide the desired wear resistance and a suitable (e.g., limited) frictional engagement with a dry cable . The second material may not wear as well as the first material, yet provide a suitable water stripping or frictional engagement with a wet cable . Accordingly, overall, the brake pad  may have both acceptable wear and frictional engagement even when applied to a wet cable . By adjusting the number of segments  corresponding to the first and second materials and the contact areas associated with those segments , a proper balance of characteristics may be achieved.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, two materials and two larger gaps  may be all that is required to provide a satisfactory brake pad . Additionally, for optimum performance, the contact area between the two materials may only slightly favor one material over the other. In such an embodiment, a first plurality of segments , , , , may be formed of a first material. A second plurality of segments , , , may be formed of a second material. If desired, the segments  may be positioned in an alternating pattern. Accordingly, each segment  of the second material may be positioned between segments  corresponding to the first material.","Alternatively, the segments , , , , comprising the first material may be positioned adjacent one another, and the segments , , , comprising the second material may be positioned adjacent one another. In such an embodiment, the segment , , , , comprising the first material may be consolidated into a single monolithic (i.e., seamless) unit. Similarly, the segments , , , comprising the second material may be consolidated into a single monolithic unit.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, two materials and minimal gaps  may be all that is required to provide a satisfactory brake pad . Additionally, for optimum performance, the contact area between the two materials may favor one material over the other (e.g., 75 percent one material, 25 percent another). In such an embodiment, a first plurality of segments , , , , may comprise a first material. A second plurality of segments , , , may comprise a second material. Again, the segments  may be positioned in an alternating pattern. Alternatively, the segments , , , , comprising the first material may be positioned adjacent one another and the segments , , , comprising the second material may be positioned adjacent one another. Adjacent segments  of common material may be consolidated as desired.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, more than two materials  may be required to provide an optimal brake pad . For example, for optimum performance, three materials may be needed in varying degrees (e.g., contact area comprising 45 percent of a first material, 30 percent of a second material, and 25 percent of the last material). In such an embodiment, a first plurality of segments , , may comprise a first material. A second plurality of segments , may comprise a second material. A third plurality of segments , , , may comprise a third material. Again, the segments  may be positioned in an alternating or distributed (e.g., balanced) pattern. Alternatively, the segments  may be separated and arranged by material type, and, if desired, consolidated into a minimum number of segments  (e.g., only one segment  for each type of material).","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may provide a user readily adjustable, or even \u201con-the-fly,\u201d control over the magnitude of a braking force  or friction force  generated by the trolley  as it travels along a cable . The braking force  may be equal to the normal force  urging the brake assembly  against the cable  multiplied by the friction coefficient for the brake pad  against the cable . With the friction coefficient for the brake pad  against the cable  being substantially constant, the braking force  may perhaps most easily be manipulated by manipulations of the normal force .","For example, by adjusting the moment arm  at which the weight  of a user is applied to the frame  of a trolley , the magnitude of the resulting moment  may be controlled. The magnitude of the moment  may then dictate the magnitude of the normal force . Accordingly, by adjusting the moment arm  at which the weight  of a user is applied to the frame  of a trolley , a user may control, within a particular range, the braking force  generated by the trolley .","In selected embodiments, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may include a carriage  configured to travel along a frame  or portion of a frame  through a range (e.g., continuous range) of motion bounded by a first position of the carriage  proximate the sheave mount  (e.g., the position of the carriage  in ) and a second position of the carriage  proximate a second end  of the frame  (e.g., the position of the carriage  in ).","In certain embodiments, a carriage  may travel along the frame  through the range of motion bounded by the first and second positions without compromising the connection between a user and the cable . Accordingly, adjustment of the position of the carriage , and the resulting adjustment to the braking force , may safely be accomplished in any suitable manner while the trolley  is in motion along the cable . That is, in selected embodiments, neither a stopped trolley  nor any change in the connection between a user and a cable  may be necessary to transition from minimum leverage and braking to maximum leverage and braking.","In selected embodiments, the default position of a carriage  with respect to the frame  may be the second position (e.g., the position of the carriage  in ). That is, absent contrary inputs or forces, a carriage  may, under the impetus of gravitational acceleration, move toward the second position. At the second position, the braking force  may be at a maximum. Accordingly, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may have a default configuration corresponding to maximum braking, which, given typical cable  declination, is sufficient to bring the trolley  to a halt.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be configured to facilitate travel of the carriage  along the user-suspension portion  of the frame . For example, in selected embodiments, a frame  may include a rail  to provide a suitable surface over which a carriage  may travel. In certain embodiments, a rail  may provide a substantially planar surface. If desired, a rail  may be formed of a material dissimilar from the rest of the frame . For example, in embodiments where the frame  may be formed of aluminum, a rail  formed of steel may be connected to the frame  to provide a more durable surface over which a carriage  may travel.","A trolley  may be configured to resist removal of a carriage  from the frame . For example, in selected embodiments, a sheave mount  may prevent a carriage  from passing therebeyond (e.g., beyond the first position). Similarly, the second end  of the frame  may be configured to prevent a carriage  from passing therebeyond (e.g., beyond the second position). For example, in certain embodiments, the second end  of the frame  may be shaped to include a rise  extending transversely from the frame to resist passage of the carriage  thereover. Also, in some embodiments, the second end  of a frame  may include a stop  (e.g. bolt, pin, etc.) extending laterally from the frame to block passage of the carriage .","In certain embodiments, a carriage  may include two cheek plates  bracketing the frame . Various fasteners , , and  may extend between the cheek plates  to connect the plates  together. Such fasteners , ,  may also support various functions of a carriage . For example, one fastener  may provide a user mount  or a location  at which a user may connect to or tie into the carriage  and transfer his or her weight  thereto. Another fastener  may support a roller , bushing , or bearing  facilitating travel of the carriage  along the rail . Yet another fastener  may provide a structure supporting manipulation of the carriage  along the rail .","For example, in selected embodiments, a fastener  may provide a location for a tether  to engage the carriage . If desired, a tether  may extend from the carriage , over the pivot , bolt , or fastener securing the sheave mount , and down toward a user. Thus, by pulling  down on the tether , a user may pull  the carriage  toward the first position and the minimum braking corresponding thereto. Conversely, by releasing the tether  or sufficiently lowering the downward force  applied to the tether , the carriage  may travel toward the second position and the maximum braking corresponding thereto.","A user may engage or manipulate a tether  in any suitable manner. For example, in one embodiment, a tether  may be connected to a handle suspended at an appropriate height for the user. Accordingly, the user may simply grab the handle and pull  down on the tether. Alternatively, a tether may extend to engage the foot of a user. For example, a user may position a foot within a loop connected to the tether . Thus, by weighting the foot (e.g., shifting some of the weight  of the user from the carriage to the tether ), the tether  may be pulled  downward.","Accordingly, while a carriage  may be the primary suspension point for the weight  of the user, portions of that weight  may be diverted as necessary to adjust the position of the carriage  or to otherwise increase the safety of a trolley . For example, in selected embodiments, various apertures  may be provided in a frame . Such apertures  may support redundant user support systems taking a portion of the weight  of a user in normal use and a substantial portion of the weight  of a user in compromised use. Additionally, such apertures  may provide locations for supporting other loads or persons not directly responsible for the operation of the trolley  (e.g., a rescuee being lowered from a stalled chair lift).","In selected embodiments, a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be configured for rapid engagement with and disengagement from a cable . In such embodiments, a capture  may be omitted. Alternatively, a capture  providing rapid release may be employed. For example, in one embodiment, a capture  may comprise a flexible cable. So configured, the capture  may extend from a first mount  positioned on one side of a brake assembly  to a second mount  positioned on the other side of the brake assembly . The engagement between the capture  and one mount  may be substantially permanent, while a release mechanism  (e.g., quick release hook, carabiner, or the like) may provide selective engagement between the capture  and the other mount .","In certain embodiments, a brake pad  may be formed as a monolithic and homogeneous unit. For example, a brake pad  may be formed as a single, seamless piece of a non-elastic material (e.g., UHMWPE). Alternatively, a brake pad  may include various other segments  or inserts  selectively providing additional control over braking characteristics. A pivot bolt  may pivotably secure the brake pad  to the frame . If desired or necessary, a brake assembly  in accordance with the present invention may include an adjustable stop . In some embodiments, the adjustable stop  may provide a selectively adjustable limit on the pivoting of the brake pad . In other embodiments, the adjustable stop  may dictate the angle at which the brake pad  may contact a cable .","Referring to , in selected embodiments, one or more captures  may be used to secure a brake assembly  to a cable . If desired, one or more captures  may be positioned to maintain a brake assembly  in abutment with the cable . For example, a capture  may be positioned such that the brake pad  and one or more slides  simultaneously contact a cable . The various slides  may be formed of various materials (e.g., materials such as those used in a brake pad ) to provide a desired composite sliding or braking effect. Such an arrangement may provide additional control over the motion of the trolley  with respect to the cable .","In certain embodiments, a capture  may be formed of an elastic material to provide a degree of control over the normal force  applied thereby. In one embodiment, a capture  may be formed of an elastic band material formed with various apertures . Mounts  may be configured as extensions or posts extending (e.g., in a lateral direction ) from the cheek plates . Accordingly, the apertures  in the capture  may be placed over the mounts  to secure the capture  to the rest of the brake assembly .","Additionally, by selecting which aperture  is applied to which mount , a user may control the slack between the slides  and the cable or, alternatively, the tension in the capture  pulling the slides  into contact with the cable . The normal force  may thus be increased sufficiently to hold the trolley  in place on the cable  both during application of the trolley  the cable  and securement of a user to the trolley . The effect of the capture  may thus bias the cable  against the brake pad , hold the trolley  in place, provide additional braking effect in operation, or some combination thereof. In practice, ten to twenty pounds of braking force is readily achieved by manually tensioning a pair of captures . On portions of a cable  having little declination, the captures  may be loosened or released to eliminate their braking effect.","Moreover, by tensioning the capture  sufficiently to prevent motion of the trolley  along the cable , a user may not have to contend with the trolley  sliding along the cable  as the user is attempting to properly apply weight  to the frame . This may provide more precise control of movement of the trolley  at all times, particularly on portions of the cable  at steep angles (e.g., greater than 30 degrees) or in close quarters near suspended chairs or gondolas being serviced.","Referring to , trolleys  in accordance with the present invention may be used as the basis for an amusement or thrill ride. One of the potential hazards of a ride employing trolleys  in accordance with the present invention is the possibility of collision. For example, a first rider may ride a first trolley  to some location along a cable . Assuming that the first rider has reached the bottom and exited the ride, a second rider may ride a second trolley  down the same cable . Accordingly, if the first rider did not actually reach the bottom, serious injury may occur when the second rider collides with the first rider. While communication between finish area operators, or sensors thereat, and start area operators, or sensors thereat, may reduce the risk of such collisions, the possibility of miscommunication or malfunction permits some risk of collision to remain.","Also, for amusement rides, revenue may largely depend on the number operators employed to operate the ride and the number of users served within a given period of time. Accordingly, revenue may be increased in various ways. For example, a plurality of cables  may be employed. Additionally, the rate at which each cable is utilized may be increased. That is, the method for circulating trolleys  (i.e., transporting trolleys  from the finish area back to the start area) may be optimized. Also, the number of operators may be minimized.","In view of the foregoing, a trolley retrieval system  in accordance with the present invention may be configured to maximize user throughput, minimize operator interaction, and eliminate the risk of collision. In selected embodiments, a system  may include multiple (e.g., four) cables  held in suspension between first and second supports. A retrieval line  may be suspended in a closed loop extending from proximate a start area  to proximate a finish area . In general, the start area  may correspond to the first or upper support, while the finish area  may correspond to the second or lower support. A motivator  may selectively circulating the retrieval line  around the loop. A controller  may control operation of the motivator .","In selected embodiments, a controller  may include a processor  and one or more end-of-travel sensors  sensing when a trolley  nears the start area . The sensors  may be operably connected to the processor  to appropriately pass thereto a stop signal informing the processor  that one or more of trolleys  is sufficiently near the start area . The processor  may be programmed to issue, in response to the stop signal, a stop command causing the motivator  to cease circulation of the retrieval line . The processor  may be further programmed to issue, in further response to the stop signal, a reverse command causing the motivator  to circulate the retrieval line  in an opposite direction when it resumes circulation the retrieval line . A controller  may further include a retrieval switch  operably connected to cause, when activated, the motivator  to resume circulation of the retrieval line . The retrieval line  may travel down with a user or simply disconnect to be reconnected only when retrieval is needed. Thus, movement of the retrieval line  may be continuous in a loop of a constant sense of direction.","At the finish area , each cable  may include arresting equipment . Arresting equipment  may include whatever structures are necessary to safety slow a trolley  and associated user to a stop. In selected embodiments, the arresting equipment  may include terminal brake acceptors (e.g. receiver or actuator), springs, and weights as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,622,634.","In certain embodiments, a retrieval system  may include a plurality of sheaves  cooperating to hold the retrieval line  in suspension. If desired, each sheave , , , and of the plurality of sheaves  may be connected to one of the first and second supports. Accordingly, the retrieval line  may be suspended in the same catenary form or angle as that of the various cables . Also, the sheaves  may define the loop about which the retrieval line  may circulate or travel. In selected embodiments, different legs or portions  of the retrieval line  may serve different cables  during operation. For example, in a four cable embodiment, a first leg of a retrieval line  may be positioned to serve two cables , , while a second leg of the retrieval line  may be positioned to serve the other cables , ","In certain embodiments, a retrieval line  may be formed of any suitable material. In one embodiment, a retrieval line  may be formed of a relatively lightweight, synthetic polymer rope. If desired or necessary, a retrieval line  may include one or more swivels  relieving twisting imposed thereon or generated therein. Various interface mechanisms  (e.g., carabiners, loop reinforcements, or the like) may provide the interface between the line  and the swivels . In selected embodiments, the swivels  or interface mechanisms  may provide a location at which a trolley  may connect to or engage the retrieval line . Additionally, the swivels  and interface mechanisms  may provide break points supporting replacement of certain portions of the retrieval line  should wear so dictate.","In selected embodiments, a motivator  may include a motive source  coupled to a line engagement system . In certain embodiment, a motive source  may provide rotation to the line engagement system , which, in turn, may induce movement (e.g., circulation) of the retrieval line . In one embodiment, a motive source  may comprise an electric motor. In such an embodiment, the motivator  may further include a polarity switch switching, in response to the reverse command, the polarity of the current supplied to the electric motor. The motive source  may operate in a single direction such that the retrieval line  loops continuously. Thus, the upward leg of the retrieval line  corresponds to retrieval of a harness or seat unit, and the downward leg \u201cdeadheads\u201d back to the finishing location for a new pickup. In such an arrangement, links for connecting to harnesses or seats may be removable from the line .","Referring to , a line engagement system  may include any structures effectively translating motion of the motive source  into motion of the retrieval line . In certain embodiments, a line engagement system  may include a first bank of sheaves  rotating about a first axis  and a second bank of sheaves  rotating about a second axis , spaced from and parallel to the first axis . The retrieval line  may be reeved between the first and second banks of sheaves , . The motive source  may provide rotation (directly or appropriately \u201cgeared\u201d) to the first bank , the second bank , or both. In such an arrangement, the surface area between the line  and the sheaves may be selected to be sufficient to provide adequate frictional engagement therebetween.","Referring to , in operation, a method  in accordance with the present invention may begin with the selection  of a system  comprising one or more cables  held in suspension between first and second supports and a trolley  positioned to travel along each cable . In selected embodiments, one trolley  may be assigned to each cable  and remain secured thereto. So configured, the possibility of collision is eliminated as only one trolley  is ever applied to a cable  in such a system. Thus, unless and until a trolley  is retrieved (circulated from the finish area  bak to the start area ), no new riders will be sent down that cable .","Once an appropriate system  has been selected , a user may be connected  to the trolley . In selected embodiments, connecting  a user to a trolley  may include positioning and securing a user within a harness or seat suspended from the trolley . Following securement  of a user in the harness, the trolley  may be released  to travel along the cable from proximate the first support (i.e., the start area ) to proximate the second support (i.e., the finish area ). At the finish area , the user may be disconnected  from the harness. The trolley  and harness may then be connected  to a retrieval line  for the return trip.","A trolley  may be connected  to a retrieval line  by any suitable method using any suitable structures. In one embodiment, a trolley  may include a tether connected thereto. A first end of the tether may connect to the harness suspended from the trolley . A second end of the tether may include a quick-release hook (e.g., carabiner) providing rapid engagement with a swivel  or interface mechanism  of a retrieval line . When the first end of a tether is pulled (e.g., by the retrieval line ), the tether may lift the harness up toward the trolley . Once the harness cannot be lifted further, additional pulling of the tether may induce travel of the trolley  along the cable . By cinching or lifting the harness, the tether may reduce air drag as the trolley  is circulated back to the start area . Also, lifting the harness may reduce flopping and whipping of the harness during travel. Furthermore, lifting the harness may facilitate passage of the harness over obstacles such as a starting gate positioned at the start area .","Once a trolley  connected  to a retrieval line , the motivator  may be activated  to draw the trolley  along the cable  from proximate the second support (i.e., the finish area ) to proximate the first support (i.e., the start area ). When one or more of the trolleys  connected  to a retrieval line  activates an end-of-travel sensor , the motivator  may stop the retrieval line . The trolley  or trolleys  may then be disconnected  from the retrieval line  and secured or prepared for future use .","As stated hereinabove, in selected embodiments, a processor  may be programmed to issue, in response to a stop signal, a reverse command causing the motivator  to circulate the retrieval line  in an opposite direction when it resumes circulation the retrieval line . So configured, the engagement locations (e.g., swivels , interface mechanisms ) between a retrieval line  and a trolley  may be securely or even permanently attached and travel in a cycle from the starting area  to the finishing area  and back. Alternatively, interface mechanisms may be clamped and removed readily so the line  may travel with only a loop of one \u201csense\u201d of direction only.","Moreover, while one engagement location is stopped at the starting area , another may be stopped at the finish area . Accordingly, in selected embodiments, while one or more trolleys  are being loaded  with users, other trolleys  may be connected to a retrieval line . Also, while one or more trolleys  are pulled from the finish area  to the start area , other engagement locations on the retrieval line  may be returned to the finish are  to continue the cyclical pattern. So configured, a trolley retrieval system  in accordance with the present invention may provide a substantially continuous throughput, minimize operator interaction, and eliminating the risk of collisions.","Referring to , a retrieval system  in accordance with the present invention may be configured to service any number of cables . Scaling of such a system  may occur in at least one of two ways. First, multiple loops may be created in a single retrieval line . Accordingly, for a system  serving six or eight cables , a retrieval line  may include four legs  or portions . Each such leg  may be positioned to service at least one cable . For example, certain legs , may service two cables , and , , respectively, while other legs , may service one cable , , each, respectively. Second, a retrieval system  may include various subsystems, each in itself being an independent yet cooperative retrieval system .","Referring to , an upper or lower support  for suspending a cable  may be configured in any suitable manner. In selected embodiments, a support  may perform at least three functions, namely anchoring, positioning, and tensioning a cable . In one embodiment a support  may include a tower  positioning a cable  at a desired height  above the ground  or other supporting surface . A tower  may include a sheave  suspended from a sheave mount  to engage and support the cable . The height  of the cable  may be controlled by altering the height of the tower , by altering the length of the sheave mount , or by some combination thereof.","After passing over the sheave  of a tower , a cable  may extend to an anchor assembly . In selected embodiments, an anchor assembly  may include one or more sheaves  to redirect the cable , one or more cable clamps , and a wrapping post . In one embodiments, an anchor assembly  may be arranged such that a cable  may pass under a sheave , through a cable clamp , and wrap around a wrapping post .","In certain embodiments, a tension assembly  may be positioned between a tower  and an anchor assembly . A tension assembly  may deflect the cable  to cause relatively fine adjustments to the tension or suspension shape of a cable . In one embodiment, a tension assembly  may include a sheave  positioned to capture the cable . The sheave  may be connected to an adjuster . Accordingly, changes in the length of the adjuster  (e.g., decreases in the length of the adjuster ) may deflect the cable  from its path otherwise. The greater the deflection of the cable , the greater the increase in tension, the flatter the suspension shape of the cable (e.g., less sag between supports ), or both.","In selected embodiments, changes in length of an adjuster  may be manually induced. Alternatively, changes in length of the adjuster  may be automatically calculated and applied to periodically or continuously adjust cable tension (e.g., to compensate for changes in length of the cable  due to changes in temperature and the like). In certain embodiments, an adjuster  may be a hydraulic ram.","If desired or necessary, one or more supports  may extend between a tower  and an anchor assembly . Such supports  may increase the strength and rigidity of the support . Additionally, such supports  may facilitate the transfer of loads imposed on the various structures ,  to underlying foundation.","A support  in accordance with the present invention may be positioned at either end of the cable . In certain embodiments, a tension assembly  may be positioned at only one end of a cable . Alternatively, when greater adjustment capacity is desired, a tension assembly  may be positioned at each end of a cable .","During installation and initial suspension of a cable , significant slack of the cable  must be appropriately consumed before the cable  may be secured or \u201ctied off.\u201d In selected embodiments, an anchor assembly  may support rapid consumption of slack cable . For example, in selected embodiments, an anchor assembly  may include a first sheave receiving cable from a tower . The cable  may pass from the first sheave , through a cable clamp , past a wrapping post , to a second sheave . In one embodiment, the various components , , ,  of the anchoring assembly  may be secured to an anchor plate , which, in turn, may secure to an appropriate foundation.","After passing through the second sheave , a cable  may be pulled  in a variety of directions. If desired, the slack of a cable  may be pulled  through an anchoring assembly  by a tractor. Thus, the variety of directions at which the cable  may be pulled  may allow the tractor to selected the best route for accomplishing the task.","Moreover, once a cable  achieves a desired suspension shape, pulling  of the cable may cease and the cable clamp  may be tightened. Once the clamp  is secured, the cable  may be appropriately cut and wrapped around the wrapping post . Once the cable  is tied off, the clamp  released. The cable  will remain in the desired configuration, as transitioning from clamp  to wrapping post  requires no guess work or estimates as to how the shape of the cable  will change once the temporary securement is released.","In selected embodiments, a tractor or the like may not provide sufficiently fine adjustment of the suspension position of a cable . In such embodiments, a tractor or the like may draw or \u201cconsume\u201d the bulk of the slack, while leaving the fine tuning of the suspension to an adjuster . That is, before an adjuster  is fully incorporated into a tension assembly , the adjuster  may be fitted with a clamp to engage a cable . The adjuster  may then incrementally, and with significant precision, pull  the cable  to a desired suspension shape. Alternating engagement between the cable clamp  of the anchor assembly  and the clamp associated with the adjuster , the adjuster  may take multiple \u201cbites\u201d or pulls at the cable . Again, once the cable  is properly positioned, pulling  of the cable may cease. The cable clamp  may be tightened and the cable  may be appropriately cut and wrapped around the wrapping post .","In selected embodiments, once installation of a cable  is complete, the second sheave and cable clamp  may be removed (e.g., unbolted). If desired, the components ,  may be re-used on other anchoring assemblies  to facilitate installation and initial suspension of other cables .","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a bumper assembly  in accordance with the present invention may be configured as a guide . For example, a bumper assembly  may be formed as a guide  or yoke  having two extensions ,  angling away from one another to form a central vertex  therebetween. A guide  may facilitate engagement with an engagement mechanism .","In selected embodiments, an engagement mechanism  may be configured to slide along a cable . An engagement mechanism  may provide the interface between a trolley  and a deflecting element. Momentum may be transferred from a moving trolley , through an engagement mechanism , and into a deflecting element, where it may be cushioned, absorbed, dispersed, or otherwise managed. Accordingly, the deflecting element may gradually bring a trolley  to a stop.","In certain embodiments, a deflecting element may comprise the terminal brake 50 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,622,634 incorporated herein by reference. In other embodiments, a deflecting element may comprise the terminal brake (item 50) disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,622,634, less the weights (item 60 therein). In still other embodiments, a deflecting element may comprise the terminal brake disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,622,634, with the weights 60 replaced by light weight interfaces aligning the various springs 58 with respect to one another and the cable 14.","In certain embodiments, an engagement mechanism  may include a carriage  and a capture element . In one embodiment, a capture element  may be formed as a ring pivotably suspended from a carriage . A capture element  may be positioned to capture or engage the guide  of an approaching trolley . In selected embodiments, the extensions ,  of a guide  may direct the capture element  toward the vertex  thereof. Additional movement  of a trolley  toward an engagement mechanism  may result in the capture element  pivoting with respect to the carriage .","In selected embodiments, a capture element  may pivot with respect to a carriage  about a single point. Accordingly, a capture element  may pivot in an arc. Due the engagement between a guide  and a capture element , this pivoting may result in a lifting  of one end  of a trolley . This lifting  may continue until a guide  or a portion thereof contacts the engagement mechanism .","One effect of this lifting  may be a reduction in the normal force between a brake assembly  and a cable , resulting in a reduction in the braking force produced by the brake assembly . That is, the lifting  may pivot a frame  of a trolley  in a direction opposite to the direction  urged by the weight  of a user.","In certain embodiments, a guide  may include a top bumper  extending upward therefrom. A top bumper  may be positioned to contact an underside of an engagement mechanism . Such contact may define an upper limit for the lifting . Upon reaching this upper limit, no further pivoting is possible and momentum associated with a trolley  may be directed through the engagement mechanism  and into a deflecting element in accordance with the present invention. Accordingly, a trolley  and engagement mechanism  may travel  together down the cable  against a resisting force (e.g., a gradually increasing resistance force, such as that of a spring  produced by a deflection element.","Because the mass of a capture element  may be small, only a relatively small impulse will be produced by a trolley  impacting thereagainst. Additionally, because the capture element  may pivot with respect to the carriage , the mass of the carriage  may not factor significantly into the initial impulse. Accordingly, initially substantially no momentum may be resolved by the deflecting element. However, as the capture element  pivots toward its upper limit, gradually more and more of the momentum of the trolley  and rider may be communicated through the capture element  to the carriage . Upon reaching the upper limit, the remaining momentum associated with a trolley  may be directed through the engagement mechanism  and into a deflecting element. Because an impulse is equal to force (mass multiplied by acceleration) multiplied by the time interval over which the force acts, this significant decrease in acceleration reduces the forces generated by the mass being stopped.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a guide  may be formed with two cheek plates  securing and stabilizing a bumper  held therebetween. The bumper  may extend beyond the cheek plates  such that the bumper  contacts a capture element  while the cheek plates  do not. Selected fasteners  may secure the bumper  and cheek plates  together. Other fasteners , spacers , shims , and the like may support securement of a guide  to the frame  of a trolley .","In certain embodiments, a bumper  may extend upward to form the top bumper . Alternatively, as shown in the illustrated embodiment, a top bumper  may be formed as a separate unit. For example, a top bumper  may include a bumper material  (e.g., HDPE, UHMWPE, PTFE, rubber compound, or the like) and a bumper mount  secured to a guide  by a fastener . In selected embodiments, apertures ,  may formed in the bumper material , bumper mount , and guide  as necessary to effect securement of the top bumper  in place.","Referring to , in selected embodiments, a carriage  in accordance with the present invention may include one or more cable interfaces  secured by fasteners  to a frame . Cable interfaces  may be formed of friction reducing or friction resistant materials (e.g., HDPE, UHMWPE, PTFE, or the like). In one embodiment, a carriage  may include three cable interfaces , namely an upper cable interface , a first lower cable interface , and a second lower cable interface . In certain embodiments, apertures  may be formed at the seams between selected cable interfaces  to permit a cable  to pass through a carriage. By positioning the apertures  at the seams, a carriage  may be installed after a cable  is already in place.","The frame  of a carriage  may include a mount  providing a location for a capture element  to secure to the frame . In selected embodiments, a fastener  may pivotably connect a capture element  to a mount . A capture element  in accordance with the present invention may have any suitable shape or configuration. In selected embodiments, a capture element  may be formed as a ring.","An engagement mechanism  in accordance with the present invention may be formed of any suitable materials. Materials may be selected to provide desirable strength, wear resistance, and the like. In selected embodiments, the materials and the shapes of an engagement mechanism  may be selected to reduce or minimize the mass thereof. By reducing the mass, the forces required to accelerate the engagement mechanism may be reduced. Accordingly, the process of arresting a trolley  in accordance with the present invention may be rendered smoother and more gradual.","The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative, and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is, therefore, indicated by the appended claims, rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only typical embodiments of the invention and are, therefore, not to be considered limiting of its scope, the invention will be described with additional specificity and detail through use of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 28"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
