---
title: Cu—Pd—M hydrogen separation membranes
abstract: The disclosure provides an H2 separation membrane comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent and where y is from greater than 0 to about 20 atomic percent, and where M consists of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof. The M elements act as strong stabilizers for the B2 phase of the alloy, and extend the critical temperature of the alloy for a given hydrogen concentration and pressure. Due to the phase stabilization and the greater temperature range over which a B2 phase can be maintained, the alloy is well suited for service as a H2 separation membrane, particularly when applicable conditions are established or cycled above about 600° C. over the course of expected operations. In certain embodiments, the B2 phase comprises at least 60 estimated volume percent of the alloy at a steady-state temperature of 400° C. The B2 phase stability is experimentally validated through HT-XRD.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08608829&OS=08608829&RS=08608829
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08608829
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110812
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Proof of Principle","Results"],"p":["The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer-employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site-support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.","The disclosure relates to an Hseparation membrane comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent and where y is from greater than 0 to about 20 atomic percent, and where M consists of Magnesium, Yttrium, Aluminum, Titanium, Lanthanum, or combinations thereof. The M elements act as strong stabilizers for the B2 phase of the alloy, and extend the critical temperature of the alloy for a given hydrogen concentration and pressure. The alloy is particularly well suited for service as a Hseparation membrane when applicable conditions are established or cycled above about 600\u00b0 C. over the course of expected operations.","The separation of hydrogen from gas mixtures is a crucial process in existing and envisioned uses of hydrogen as a chemical feedstock and fuel. Membranes comprised of thin films of metals are a well-known technology for achieving the separation. The membranes are designed with multiple performance objectives in mind, such as delivering high hydrogen flux, showing long-term operability over broad ranges of temperature and pressure, and resistance to poisoning and degradation by gas contaminants.","In separation operations, hydrogen permeates through metal membranes by means of a unique mechanism in which Hdissociatively adsorbs on the catalytically active surface of the metal, producing hydrogen atoms which diffuse through the interstices of the bulk metal lattice and recombine on the opposite surface. Diffusion through the bulk metal is limited to hydrogen atoms, and an infinite selectivity for Hseparation can be achieved. Generally, for sufficiently thick membranes with sufficiently high Hdissociation rates on the surface, hydrogen atom diffusion through the bulk limits the overall rate of hydrogen transport. Palladium (Pd) has been distinguished from other pure metal membranes by the high Hdissociation activity of the Pd surface and the high hydrogen atom permeability of bulk Pd. However, in pure Pd membranes, alpha beta phase transformations during hydrogen loading\/un-loading and temperature cycles introduces severe lattice strains, causing pure Pd membranes to become brittle. This can be greatly mitigated by alloying Pd with other metals, such as Silver (Ag), Copper (Cu), Gold (Au), Yttrium (Y), Cerium (Ce) and others.","Pd\u2014Cu alloys are particularly effective due to a high Hdiffusivity and a resistance to sulfur compounds such as Hwhich may also be present in a gaseous mixture. Additionally, Pd\u2014Cu alloys exhibit B2 and fcc phases over the range of composition and temperature. See, e.g., Subramanian et al., \u201cCu\u2014Pd (Copper-Palladium),\u201d , Vol 12, No. 2 (1991). It is generally accepted that the B2 phase fosters a higher permeability value than the fcc phase due to a higher mobility of hydrogen atoms within the B2 crystal structure. See e.g., Howard et al., \u201cHydrogen permeance of palladium-copper alloy membranes over a wide range of temperatures and pressures,\u201d 241 (2004); see also Opalka et al., \u201cHydrogen interactions with the PdCu ordered B2 alloy,\u201d 446-447 (2007). However, implementation of Pd\u2014Cu alloy membranes is challenging due to Pd\u2014Cu phase behavior and the nature of the B24fcc phase transition. A single B2 phase composition may not be stable upon thermal cycling to higher temperatures, and the formation of the fcc phase with a different molar volume compromises the integrity and H-selectivity of the membrane in such operations. Further, persistent structural and stoichiometric segregation may be induced by cycling through the two phase region (B2+fcc), and residual fcc phases can reduce the Hpermeability of B2 membranes significantly. Another aspect of fcc\/B2 mixed phase morphologies is a possible propensity for defect formation along the grain boundaries between fcc and B2 domains. See e.g., Goldbach et al., \u201cImpact of the fcc\/bcc phase transition on the homogeneity and behavior of PdCu membranes,\u201d 73 (2010). Correspondingly, increased stability of the B2 phase over a wider temperature range would be an advantageous feature of a Pd\u2014Cu based membrane, and would provide significant utility for applications that require frequent thermal cycling, such as cycling down to ambient temperatures.","Further, stability over a wide temperature range would preserve the higher permeability value of the B2 phase of Pd\u2014Cu based membranes during operations at temperatures above the Pd\u2014Cu critical temperature. The maximum temperature at which any bcc phase is stable is about 873K (600\u00b0 C.). As a result, in certain operations such as coal gasification, steam reforming, and catalytic partial oxidation, where temperatures of up to 900\u00b0 C. may be expected, maintenance of the B2 phase and the resulting higher Hpermeability is not realizable. It would be clearly advantageous to provide a Pd\u2014Cu based alloy for Hseparation membranes capable of maintaining a B2 phase and the associated Hpermeability values for these higher temperature operations. Another specific advantage could accrue in potentially enabling membrane reactors to simultaneously employ Hand Omembranes during autothermal reforming, where endothermic heat requirements are met by partially combusting or oxidizing methane. Currently, oxygen membranes based on dense mixed ionic electronic conducting perovskite materials are operated above 950-1000\u00b0 C., which clearly exceeds the B2 phase critical temperature of generally about 600\u00b0 C. for Pd\u2014Cu Hseparation membranes. This dichotomy has necessitated purposely created temperature zones for the respective Hand Omembranes rather than integration of the membranes into one single unit. See e.g., Patil et al., \u201cDesign of a Novel Autothermal Membrane-Assisted Fluidized-Bed Reactor for the Production of Ultrapure Hydrogen from Methane,\u201d 44 (2005), among others. A Pd\u2014Cu based alloy exhibiting B2 phase stability over a wider temperature range would significantly mitigate the operating temperature ranges and potentially allow for a significantly more streamlined operation.","Ternary alloys based on Cu\u2014Pd based compositions have been investigated for use as Hseparation membranes using first-principle methods on high Pd content (>70 at. %) ternary alloys of Cu, Pd, and a metal M. These computational efforts concentrate on Pd rich compositions where the materials exist as substitutionally random fcc alloys, in order to preserve the higher HS resistance observed in fcc structures. Ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloys in an fcc structure, where Pd is present at 70 at. % or greater, and where M=V, Zr, Nb, Ru, Rh, Ta, Ti, Pt, Ag, and Au, have been investigated. See e.g., Kamakoti et al., \u201cTowards first principles-based identification of ternary alloys for hydrogen purification membranes,\u201d 279 (2006); see also Coulter et al., \u201cPredicting, Fabricating, and Permeability Testing of Free-Standing Ternary Palladium-Copper-Gold Membranes for Hydrogen Separation,\u201d 114 (2010); see also Semidey-Flecha et al., \u201cDetailed first-principles models of hydrogen permeation through PdCu-based ternary alloys,\u201d 362 (2010); see also Ling et al., \u201cFirst-principles screening of PdCuAg ternary alloys as Hpurification membranes,\u201d 371 (2011). These efforts limit the ternary compositions to compositions providing Pd-rich fcc regimes, and do not investigate or discuss compositions leading to potential expansion of applicable temperature ranges for the B2 phase of ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloys.","It would be advantageous to provide an Hseparation membrane comprised of a ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloy which exhibits and extends a B2 phase, and which mitigates the B24fcc transition in cycling temperature operations. Such a membrane would mitigate negative impacts of the B24fcc transition on mechanical stability, such as changes in molar volume and defect formation along B2 and fcc boundaries. Further, such a membrane would mitigate the impact of persistant structural and stoichiometric segregation induced by repeated cycling through a two phase region (B2+fcc). Extension of the B2 phase would additionally preserve higher permeability values during operations at temperatures above the Pd\u2014Cu critical temperature.","The disclosure provides an Hseparation membrane comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent and where y is from greater than 0 to about 20 atomic percent, and where M consists of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof. The CuPdMalloy maintains a B2 phase at temperatures exceeding comparable Cu\u2014Pd alloys, and allows for utilization of the higher Hpermeability of the B2 phase in higher temperature operations such as coal gasification, steam reforming, catalytic partial oxidation, and autothermal reforming, where temperatures exceeding the critical temperature of Cu\u2014Pd alloys are routinely exceeded.","In the alloy CuPdM, the M elements act as strong stabilizers for the B2 phase of the alloy, and extend the critical temperature of the alloy for a given hydrogen concentration and pressure. Due to the phase stabilization and the greater temperature range over which a B2 phase can be maintained, the alloy is well suited for service as a Hseparation membrane, particularly when applicable conditions are established or cycled above about 600\u00b0 C. over the course of expected operations. In certain embodiments, the B2 phase comprises at least 60 estimated volume percent of the alloy at a steady-state temperature of 400\u00b0 C.","The ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloys were developed through the use of first principles density functional theory to determine potential alloying elements M that would stabilize the B2 structure, followed by subsequent experimentation and evaluation for validation of the predictions. 34 potential M stabilizers were evaluated and initial computational work indicated potential B2 phase stabilization for the alloying elements M for elements Sc, Ti, Zn, Y, Hf, La, Al, and Mg. Based on the initial screening, phase stabilization of the 7 alloying elements (Ti, Zr, Hf, Y, La, Al and Mg) was investigated experimentally using the nominal compositions CuPdMand CuPdM. The 14 alloys were prepared by melting in a vacuum arc furnace back-filled with high purity argon and subjected to an equilibration annealing at 400\u00b0 C. for 21 days.","High-temperature x-ray diffraction (HT-XRD) was performed to determine the temperature limits of the B2 phase in each ternary CuPdMalloy, where M=Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La, Zr, and Hf. The HT-XRD was conducted at a baseline temperature of 25\u00b0 C. and additionally at temperatures generally between 500\u00b0 C. and 950\u00b0 C. for each alloy, in order to validate potential B2 phase stabilizing effects at temperatures greater than 600\u00b0 C. The HT-XRD indicated phase stabilization occurs when Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La are utilized as alloying elements. The alloying elements Zr and Hf failed to produce significant phase stabilization.","Based on the experimental results and evaluation of various CuPdMalloys, where x is from about 35 to about 50 at. % and y is greater than 0 and less than about 20 at. %, 5 alloying elements corresponding to M=Mg, Y, Al, Ti, and La are identified which can greatly improve hydrogen separation performance at much lower cost compared to pure Pd or Pd\u2014Cu binary membrane alloys. In an embodiment where M=Y, TI, La or combinations thereof, the alloy is comprised of from greater than 0 to about 10 at. % M. The compositional ranges have great potential in reducing Pd contents, expanding the B2 phase field towards higher temperatures, achieving higher hydrogen permeability at higher temperatures, and achieving improved resistance against sulfur poisoning, among other advantages","The novel process and principles of operation are further discussed in the following description.","The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications, however, will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art, since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide an Hseparation membrane comprised of a ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloy exhibiting a B2 phase at increased temperatures.","The disclosure herein provides an Hseparation membrane comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent and where y is from greater than 0 to about 20 atomic percent, and where M consists of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof. The CuPdMalloy is comprised of a B2 phase of Cu, Pd, and M atoms. Generally, the B2 phase is an alternating series of first layers and second layers, where the first layer consists of a plane of the Cu atoms along a [100] direction of the crystal structure, and where the second layer consists of a plane of the Pd and the M atoms along the [100] direction of the crystal structure.","The CuPdMalloy maintains a B2 phase at temperatures exceeding comparable Cu\u2014Pd alloys, and allows for utilization of the higher Hpermeability of the B2 phase in higher temperature operations such as coal gasification, steam reforming, catalytic partial oxidation, and autothermal reforming, where temperatures exceeding the critical temperature of Cu\u2014Pd alloys are routinely exceeded. The stability of the B2 phase in the CuPdMalloy additionally mitigates negative structural and performance impacts which arise from repeated cycling through the B24fcc phase fields over the course of expected operations. The CuPdMalloy functions as an Hseparation membrane through dissolution and recombinative desorption of H.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":["2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 "],"b":["100","101","102","103","102","101","104","101","104","102","102","101","103"],"i":"Journal of Alloys and Compounds "},"Hseparation membrane  is comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where M is a phase stabilizer consisting of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof. In the formulation, x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent, and y is greater than 0 and less than about 20 atomic percent. The M elements listed act as strong stabilizers for the B2 phase of the alloy, and extend the critical temperature of the alloy for a given hydrogen concentration and pressure. The ability of Hseparation membrane  to maintain a B2 phase provides distinct advantages for operations at elevated temperatures. In certain embodiments, the B2 phase comprises at least 60 estimated volume percent of the alloy at a steady-state temperature of 400\u00b0 C.","Within this disclosure, the term \u201cB2 phase\u201d means an interpenetrating simple cubic structure, also called the cesium chloride (CsCl) structure, formed by two separate elemental atoms, wherein each of the two separate elements forms a separate simple cubic lattice, with an atom of one element at the center of each cube of the other element. Altogether, the arrangement of atoms is the same as body-centered cubic, but with alternating types of atoms at the different lattice sites. The coordination number of each atom in the structure is 8. See e.g., Y. Qu\u00e9r\u00e9, (CRC Press 1998), among others. Within this disclosure, the B2 phase is generally a crystal structure of Cu, Pd, and M atoms. The crystal structure is comprised of alternating first and second layers, where the first layer is generally a plane of Cu atoms and where the second layer is generally a plane of Pd and M atoms. The first and second layers lie along the [100] direction of the crystal structure, where [100] denotes a direction vector in real space.","Within this disclosure, the term \u201cretentate side\u201d means a side of the of the Hseparation membrane in fluid contact with a gaseous mixture reservoir. Similarly, the term \u201cpermeate side\u201d means a second side of the Hseparation membrane separated from the gaseous mixture reservoir by the retentate side. As is understood, in operation, Htransports from the gaseous mixture reservoir through the Hseparation membrane by dissociating on the retentate side, diffusing through the Hseparation membrane as H atoms, and recombining on the permeate side.","Within this disclosure, the term \u201catomic percent\u201d means the percentage of one kind of atom in the CuPdM, alloy comprising the Hseparation membrane relative to the total number of atoms in the CuPdM, alloy comprising the Hseparation membrane.","Within this disclosure, chemical symbols are based on the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) systematic names. For example, the symbols Cu, Pd, Mg, Y, Al, Ti, and La correspond to Copper, Palladium, Magnesium, Yttrium, Aluminum, Titanium, and Lanthanum, respectively.","As is understood, alloys consisting of Pd and Cu form homogeneous face centered cubic (fcc) alloys in the whole composition range generally above 600\u00b0 C. Below that temperature over a range of Pd atomic percents, B2 and fcc phases occur, with B2 as a generally homogenous phase within a narrower range of Pd atomic percents.  generally illustrates the ordered phase boundaries of Cu\u2014Pd alloys as a function of % Pd and temperature, and reflects the B2-fcc behavior. See also Subramanian et al., \u201cCu\u2014Pd (Copper-Palladium),\u201d , Vol 12, No. 2 (1991). At , Cu\u2014Pd alloys possessing % Pd and temperature characteristics falling within boundary  exhibit B2 as a generally homogenous phase, while Cu\u2014Pd alloys possessing % Pd and temperature characteristics falling outside boundary  exhibit fcc as a generally homogenous phase. Between boundaries  and , Cu\u2014Pd alloys exhibit a mixture of B2 and fcc phases. As is understood, this phase behavior can be problematic when Hseparation membranes comprised of a Cu\u2014Pd alloy are temperature cycled during the course of fabrication or typical operation. See e.g., Goldbach et al., among others.","As an example, a particular Cu\u2014Pd alloy comprised of approximately 47 atomic % Pd is known to possess a relatively high Hpermeability and is depicted at  as composition . As indicated, the alloy is expected to exhibit a homogenous B2 phase below a temperature Tand a homogenous fcc phase above a temperature T, with a mixture of B2 and fcc phases within the miscibility gap between Tand T. When the alloy is utilized as a Hseparation membrane and typical operations exceed the temperature T, the fcc phase of the alloy incurs the negative aspects of the fcc phase relative to the B2 phase as discussed earlier. Additionally, repeated cycling over the two phase region between Tand Tcan tend to generate stoichiometric heterogeneity and an increased propensity for defect formation during the fcc-B2 phase transformations. Further, such phase transformation may present issues arising after fabrication of the Hseparation membrane, as altered lattice parameters between the two phases impacts the effectiveness of tight, as-constructed mechanical tolerances between, for example, the membrane and a surrounding support.","The disclosure herein provides a ternary alloy comprised of Cu, Pd, and a phase stabilizer M which acts to increase the temperatures Tand Tat  for a given Pd at. %. The alloy has the composition CuPdM, where the phase stabilizer M consists of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof, and where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent, and y is greater than 0 and less than about 20 atomic percent. Due to the phase stabilization and the greater temperature range over which a B2 phase can be maintained, the alloy is well suited for service as a Hseparation membrane, particularly when applicable conditions are established or cycled above about 600\u00b0 C. over the course of expected operations. For example, where the Hseparation membrane is utilized for Hseparation on a gaseous stream generated through coal gasification, where applicable conditions may dictate temperatures as high as 900\u00b0 C.","Table 1 illustrates the impact of the phase stabilizer M on certain embodiments of the CuPdMalloy where x=43.75 at. % and y=6.25 at. %, and where the approximate parameters Tand Tare analogous to the representations at .","The ternary Cu\u2014Pd-M alloys were developed through the use of first principles density functional theory to initially screen for potential alloying elements M that would stabilize the B2 structure followed by subsequent experimentation and evaluation for validation of the predictions. The initial computational work indicated potential B2 phase stabilization for the alloying elements M for elements Sc, Ti, Zn, Y, Hf, La, Al, and Mg. Of these potential B2 phase stabilizers, subsequent experimental validation indicated an actual stabilization with alloying elements M of Mg, Y, Al, Tl, and La.","The first principles package of VASP (Vienna ab initio simulation package) was used to calculate the total energies using electronic density functional theory (DFT). See Kresse et al., \u201cAb. initio molecular dynamics for liquid metals,\u201d , Vol. 47 (1993); see also Kresse et al., \u201cEfficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy,\u201d Phys. Rev. B, Vol. 54 (1996). Projector augmented-wave (PAW) potentials were used as supplied with VASP. See Blochl \u201cProjector augmented-wave method,\u201d 50 (1994). The Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof gradient approximation to the exchange correlation functional was used. See Perdew et al., \u201cGeneralized Gradient Approximation Made Simple,\u201d ., Vol. 78 (1997). The Brillouin zone integrations were performed using the Monkhorst-Pack k-point meshes, and a smearing parameter of 0.2 eV was chosen for the Methfessel-Paxton technique. See Monkhorst et al. \u201cSpecial Points for Brillouin-zone integrations,\u201d , Vol. 13 (1976), and see Methfessel et al., \u201cHigh-precision sampling for Brillouin-zone integration in metals,\u201d , Vol. 40 (1989). All structures are fully relaxed (both lattice parameters and atomic coordinates) until energies converge to a precision of 1 meV\/at. A \u201chigh precision\u201d setting is used. The plane-wave energy cutoff is held constant at 500 eV. The semi-core 3p, 4p and 5p electrons of transition metal elements are explicitly treated as valence. To obtain enthalpy of formation values \u0394H, a composition-weighted average of the pure elemental cohesive energies is subtracted from the cohesive energy of a given composition. The resulting energy is an \u201centhalpy\u201d because its volume is relaxed at zero pressure. A 2\u00d72\u00d72 supercell was built and individual Pd atom was substituted by the alloying elements.","In order to identify possible strong stabilizers from among selected metals, OFT was conducted for B2 CuPdM(x=0-8) ternary alloys. Resulting enthalpies of formation are illustrated at  for the 34 metals evaluated. At , solid and dashed lines are utilized for the purpose of clarity only. Negative enthalpies of formation as illustrated at  indicated potential energetic stability for the B2 phase when elements Sc, Ti, Zn, Y, Zr, Hf, La, Al and Mg are utilized in the CuPdMalloys. The results ignore any competing phases in the individual ternaries, and ignore any configurational entropy effect and lattice vibration at finite temperatures.","Based on the present OFT calculations, 7 alloying elements (Ti, Zr, Hf, Y, La, Al and Mg) were selected for experimental verification using nominal compositions of CuPdMand CuPdM. The alloys were fabricated using high purity Cu, Pd, Ti, Zr, Hf, Y, La, Al and Mg elements in pellet or sponge form. The chosen Pd-rich compositions were the same as the OFT calculations for consistency. The Cu-rich compositions were chosen for the purpose of locating the B2 phase on the Cu-rich side. The 16 alloys were prepared by melting in a vacuum arc furnace back-filled with high purity argon. Each sample weighted \u02dc40 g. For evaluation purposes, the alloys were homogenized at 900\u00b0 C. for 72 hours and subjected to an equilibration annealing at 400\u00b0 C. for 21 days.","Chemical analysis of the homogenized and annealed alloys was conducted using wavelength dispersive x-ray fluorescence spectroscopy (WDXRF) (Rigaku, ZSX Primus II) with results at Table 2. Cu\u2014Zn alloys were used for calibrating the WDXRF. The phase identification was done using x-ray diffraction (XRD) (Rigaku, Ultima III with Jade analysis software). Optical microscopy and scanning electron microscopy\/energy dispersive spectroscopy (SEM\/EDS) (FEI, Inspect F50 scanning electron microscope with Oxford INCA Microanalysis) were used for microstructural characterization and microchemical analysis. The high temperature differential scanning calorimeter (DSC) apparatus (Setaram Setsys 16\/18) was used to determine the B2fcc phase transition temperatures for these alloys. The measurements were conducted between room temperature and 1000\u00b0 C. with a heating and cooling rate of 10K\/min in an argon atmosphere.","The estimated volume percentage of the 82 phase in the CuPdMalloys may be estimated using back-scattered SEM images and analysis of the compositional contrast using appropriate software, such as IMAGEJ. The estimated volume percentage may additionally be estimated based on integration of the XRD trace over the B2 phase 2-theta range as compared to an integration over the 2-theta range of the sample. See e.g., Chung et al., -, Marcel Decker, Inc., New York, N.Y. (2000), pp. 55-88. For the ternary CuPdMalloys tested, M=Mg, Y, and Al were the strongest B2 stabilizers, producing B2 phase estimated volume percentages of 100%, 75%, and 70% respectively at 400\u00b0 C.","High-temperature x-ray diffraction (HT-XRD) was performed to determine the temperature limits of the B2 phase in each ternary CuPdMalloy, where M=Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La, Zr, and Hf. The HT-XRD was conducted at a baseline temperature of 25\u00b0 C. and additionally at temperatures generally between 500\u00b0 C. and 950\u00b0 C. for each alloy, in order to validate potential B2 phase stabilizing effects at temperatures greater than 600\u00b0 C. The samples were held for 1 hour at each temperature increment before the x-ray scan to insure equilibration. The HT-XRD indicated phase stabilization occurred when Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La were utilized as alloying elements, while the alloying elements Zr and Hf failed to produce significant phase stabilization. The HT-XRD results are presented with intensity at the applicable 2-theta and respective temperatures indicated. 2-theta values indicating B2(), B2(), B2(), FCC(), and FCC() crystalline structures are illustrated where applicable.","As will be discussed,  illustrate stabilization of the B2 phase for specific elements M in the CuPdMalloy based on the highest temperature at which a B2 phase peak is generally detected. The maximum temperature at which the B2 phase peak is detected is treated as the B24fcc phase transition temperature for the alloy represented. As indicated, the alloys evaluated and represented at  can be generally expressed in the nomenclature of the disclosure as CuPdM, and extension of the B2 phase stabilization to increased temperatures can be recognized through comparison to the B24fcc phase transition temperature of a CuPdalloy, which is approximately 500\u00b0 C.","For the CuPdMgalloy, HT-XRD indicated a single phase of a B2 crystal structure (B2()) at room temperature (25\u00b0 C.) and persisting as temperatures increase, as indicated at . The first indication of the face centered cubic (FCC()) phase appears at 640\u00b0 C., as generally indicated at . Above 640\u00b0 C., the volume fraction of the fcc phase increases as the temperature increases, as evidenced by a growing intensity of fcc peaks (FCC() and FCC ()) at the expense of B2 peaks. At , eventually, all the B2 peaks (B2()) disappear completely as the entire specimen transforms to fcc above 920\u00b0 C., as generally indicated at . For further illustration and clarity, the HT-XRD data indicated at  at  is magnified at  for temperatures between 880\u00b0 C. and 920\u00b0 C., and around the B2 phase (B2()) over the \u0394 2-\u0398 range at . As indicated at , the B2 phase largely disappears at roughly the 920\u00b0 C. temperature. Correspondingly, the B2+fccfcc phase transition temperature for CuPdMgalloy is estimated to be 920\u00b0 C. This is significantly higher than that of a CuPdalloy, which is approximately 500\u00b0 C. Furthermore, since the CuPdMgalloy contained a mixture of B2 and fcc phases at higher temperatures, it is likely that the B2 phase field is also expanded toward the Pd\u2014Mg rich side (i.e. Cu-poor side) due to Mg substitution for Pd. Additionally, since element diffusivity increases exponentially as the temperature increases, it is intuitively expected that CuPdMgwill possess higher hydrogen permeability in the bulk at lower cost. The experimental results also suggest that the B2 phase should exhibit a higher Mg solubility than 6.25 atomic percent.","For the CuPdYalloy at , , and , substitution of 6.25 at. % Y for Pd also expands the B2 phase field when compared to the CuPdalloy. The HT-XRD data in  shows that the major phase in the CuPdYalloy is B2 (B2()) below 625\u00b0 C. The first indication of the fcc phase (FCC() and FCC ()) at  is apparent at around 575\u00b0 C., as generally indicated at  and . At 675\u00b0 C., almost all of the B2 phase (B2()) transforms to fcc, as generally indicated at . For further illustration and clarity, the HT-XRD data indicated at  at  is magnified at  for temperatures between 650\u00b0 C. and 700\u00b0 C., and around the B2 phase (B2()) over the \u0394 2-\u0398 range at . As indicated at , the B2 phase largely disappears at roughly the 675\u00b0 C. temperature. This is further evidenced by the relative absence of B2 phase at the increasing temperatures of . This data suggest that the B2 phase field is expanded toward the PdYside of the Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Y system as x increases to the solubility limit. Furthermore, the B2+fccfcc phase transition temperature for CuPdYalloy is approximately 675\u00b0 C. Phases of PdY and YOwere also identified in the CuPdYalloy and appear as peaks, but are not specifically identified at ,  and  for clarity.","Additionally, In order to examine the reactivity of the third addition element to the PdCu membrane alloys in oxidizing HS-containing syngas environments, DFT calculations were performed to predict the surface structure and corresponding surface energies of the B2 CuPdM alloy. Although elemental Y is vulnerable to oxidation and reaction with HS gas molecules, the DFT calculations on the surface segregation energy of CuPdY show that Y atoms will migrate away from the surface positions into the bulk. This finding is significant because it suggests that CuPdY surfaces should retain the excellent hydrogen selectivity of PdCu surfaces and the tendency to form surface YOshould not be a concern.","For the CuPdAlalloy at ,  and , substitution of 6.25 at. % Al for Pd expands the B2 phase field when compared to the CuPdalloy. At , the B2 phase (BCC()) is evident at 25\u00b0 C. and at increasing temperatures, and the volume fraction of the fcc phase (FCC() and FCC()) increase gradually with temperature. The behavior continues as temperature is further increased at , with the CuPdAlbecoming completely fcc above 825\u00b0 C., as generally indicated by the disappearance of the B2 phase (B2()) at . For further illustration and clarity, the HT-XRD data generally indicated at  at  is magnified at  for temperatures between 800\u00b0 C. and 850\u00b0 C., and around the B2 phase (B2()) over the \u0394 2-\u0398 range at . As indicated at , the B2 phase largely disappears at roughly the 825\u00b0 C. temperature. This data suggest that the B2 phase field is expanded toward the PdAlside of the Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Al system as x increases to the solubility limit. Furthermore, the B24fcc phase transition temperature for CuPdAlalloy is also raised to a temperature above 825\u00b0 C. CuO was also identified in the CuPdAlalloy and appear as peaks, but are not specifically identified at , , and  for clarity. Additionally, In order to examine the reactivity of the addition of Al to the PdCu membrane alloys in oxidizing HS-containing syngas environments, DFT calculations were performed to predict the surface structure and corresponding surface energies of the B2 CuPdAlalloy. Although elemental Al is vulnerable to oxidation and reaction with HS gas molecules, the DFT calculations on the surface segregation energy of Al on CuPd show that Al atoms will migrate away from the surface positions into sub-surface positions. This finding is significant because it suggests that CuPdAlsurfaces should retain the excellent hydrogen selectivity of PdCu surfaces and the tendency to form surface AlOshould not be a concern.","For the CuPdTialloy at , , and , substitution of 6.25 at. % percent Ti for Pd expands the B2 phase field when compared to the CuPdalloy. At , the B2 phase (BCC()) is evident as indicated generally at . As temperatures increase, the volume fraction of the fcc phase (FCC() and FCC()) gradually increase. As temperature is further increased at , above 775\u00b0 C. and as indicated generally at , the alloy becomes completely fcc. For further illustration and clarity, the HT-XRD data indicated at  at  is magnified at  for temperatures between 750\u00b0 C. and 800\u00b0 C., and around the B2 phase (B2()) over the \u0394 2-\u0398 range at . As indicated at , the B2 phase largely disappears at roughly the 775\u00b0 C. temperature. This data suggest that the B2 phase field is expanded toward the PdTiside of the Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Ti system as x increases to the solubility limit. Furthermore, the B24fcc phase transition temperature for the CuPdTialloy is also raised to a temperature above 775\u00b0 C. Phases of TiOand PdTi were also identified in the CuPdTialloy and appear as peaks, but are not specifically identified at , , and  for clarity.","For the CuPdLaalloy at ,  and , substitution of 6.25 at. % percent La for Pd expands the B2 phase field when compared to the CuPdalloy. At , the B2 phase (BCC()) is evident as indicated generally at . As temperatures increase, the volume fraction of the fcc phase (FCC() and FCC()) gradually increase. As temperature is further increased above 650\u00b0 C. and as indicated generally at , the alloy becomes completely fcc. For further illustration and clarity, the HT-XRD data indicated at  at  is magnified at  for temperatures between 625\u00b0 C. and 675\u00b0 C., and around the B2 phase (B2()) over the \u0394 2-\u0398 range at . As indicated at , the B2 phase largely disappears at roughly the 650\u00b0 C. temperature. This is further evidenced by the relative absence of B2 phase at the increasing temperatures of . This data suggest that the B2 phase field is expanded toward the PdLaside of the Cu\u2014Pd\u2014La system as x increases to the solubility limit. Furthermore, the B2fcc phase transition temperature for the CuPdLaalloy is also raised to a temperature above 650\u00b0 C.","Based on the DFT calculations and experimental results of various CuPdMalloys, where x is from about 35 to about 50 at. % and y is greater than 0 and less than about 20 at. %, 5 alloying elements corresponding to M=Mg, Y, Al, Ti, and La are identified which can greatly improve hydrogen separation performance at much lower cost compared to pure Pd or Pd\u2014Cu binary membrane alloys. In an embodiment where M=Y, Ti, La or combinations thereof, the alloy is comprised of from greater than 0 to about 10 at. % M. The compositional ranges have great potential in reducing Pd contents, expanding the B2 phase field towards higher temperatures, achieving higher hydrogen permeability at higher temperatures, and achieving improved resistance against sulfur poisoning, among other advantages.","Referring to  and as discussed supra,  illustrates Hseparation apparatus  comprised of Hseparation membrane , with retentate side  in fluid communication with gaseous mixture reservoir . Hseparation membrane  is comprised of the ternary alloy CuPdMas disclosed and in operation separates Hfrom a gaseous mixture contained by gaseous mixture reservoir . In the alloy formulation, elements of Mg, Y, Al, Ti, and La act as strong stabilizers for the B2 phase of the alloy, and extend the critical temperature of the alloy for a given hydrogen concentration and pressure.","At , gaseous mixture reservoir  is in fluid communication through conduit  with a source producing the gaseous mixture comprised of hydrogen, represented as Hproduction source . Hproduction source  may be any process where His produced with a mixture of other gases, such as coal gasification, steam reforming, autothermal reforming, partial oxidation, or other operations or processes on coal, hydrocarbons, or other fuels. Hproduction source  may further include subsequent processes such as water-gas shift reactions intended to alter the composition of a gaseous mixture while retaining Has a constituent gas. Retentate side  of Hseparation membrane  is in fluid communication with gaseous mixture reservoir , such that in operation Hseparation membrane  acts to separate Hfrom the gaseous mixture generated by Hproduction source . Hseparation membrane  comprised of the ternary alloy CuPdMwhere M=Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La, or combinations thereof, is particularly suited for higher temperature Hseparations, such as a membrane reactor operating under post-gasifier conditions, where typical temperatures may be up to 900\u00b0 C. and typical pressure may be up to 6.89 MPa, along with HS concentrations as high as 1000 ppm. Similarly, permeate side  of Hseparation membrane  is in fluid communication with Hgas reservoir . At , in operation, an exhaust gas depleted of Hexits hydrogen gaseous mixture reservoir  at conduit .","Hseparation membrane  may have any thickness between retentate side  and permeate side . When Hseparation membrane  is not supported by an underlying substrate, a typical thickness is 30-100 micron (\u03bcm). When an underlying substrate is present, Hseparation membrane  may have a thickness of 10 \u03bcm or less. However, as stated, within this disclosure the thickness of Hseparation membrane  is not limiting, and Hseparation membrane  may have any thickness sufficient to provide for dissociative chemisorptions of hydrogen on retentate side , dissolution of atomic hydrogen from the retentate side , pressure-driven diffusion of atomic hydrogen through Hseparation membrane , and recombinative desorption from permeate side , as is known in the art.","In an embodiment, Hseparation apparatus  is further comprised of a Hgas reservoir  in fluid communication with permeate side  of Hseparation membrane . The Hgas reservoir  serves to contain Hresulting from recombinative desorption from permeate side . As is understood, a purge gas may be utilized as a means for the removal of Hfrom Hgas reservoir , as well as means for controlling the Hpartial pressure in Hgas reservoir , in order to foster pressure-driven diffusion of atomic hydrogen through Hseparation membrane . At , separated His removed from Hgas reservoir  through the action of a purge gas entering through conduit  and exiting through conduit .","Hseparation apparatus  may be further comprised of and supported by a porous substrate located between permeate side  and Hgas reservoir , where the porous substrate has an external and internal porosity sufficient to maintain fluid communication between permeate side  and Hgas reservoir . The porous substrate may be a planar type or a tubular type. Exemplary materials for the porous substrate include but are not limited to ceramic, porous glass, tantalum, ceramic hollow fibers, vanadium-nickel, and porous sintered metal supports such as porous stainless steel, porous Hastelloy, and Inconel. As is understood, it is advantageous to utilize a support having a similar thermal expansion coefficient to Hseparation membrane  to aid mechanical strength, lessen fragility, resist cracking, and enhance operation at higher pressures and temperatures. The porous substrate may be an asymmetric support having a reduced pore size and\/or distribution at locations in contact with Hseparation membrane  as compared to the remaining bulk of the porous substrate, in order to maintain higher hydrogen flux while limiting the pore size effect on the required thickness of the Hseparation membrane , as is known in the art.","Hseparation apparatus  may be further comprised of a diffusion barrier between the permeate side and the porous substrate. As is understood, the effective long-term stability of Pd and Pd alloy membranes is strongly dependent upon the chemical composition of the support and mitigation of intermetallic diffusion between the membrane and the porous substrate. The diffusion barrier may be comprised of, for example, an oxide layer, a high temperature melting layer such as tungsten, tantalum oxide, and the like, a colloidal silica sol layer, an electoplated Ag layer, and other materials known in the art for the prevention of intermetallic diffusion between the permeate side and the porous substrate.","The CuPdMternary alloy comprising Hseparation membrane  may be fabricated through various processes known to those skilled in the art, such as a primary element melt, cold rolling, diffusion welding, electroplating, magnetron sputtering, e-beam evaporation, chemical vapor deposition, spray pyrolysis, electroless plating, sequential deposition, and others. Any fabrication method sufficient to produce an CuPdMternary alloy of the disclosed composition at a thickness sufficient to generate the Hseparation described herein is sufficient. The resulting CuPdMternary alloy may be further annealed or homogenized prior to use in Hseparation membrane . As is understood, annealing and\/or homogenization prior to operational employment of Cu\u2014Pd alloy membranes provides general improvement to both the alloying and subsequent Hseparation processes. When annealing and\/or homogenization is employed, the sufficiency of a time and temperature treatment to enhance formation of the B2 phases as described herein may be discerned through general experience, computational modeling, XRD and\/or SEM analysis, or other means known in the art. In an embodiment, the ternary alloy CuPdMcomprising Hseparation membrane  is homogenized at a temperature exceeding about 400\u00b0 C. for a period of at least 6 hours. Alternatively, annealing may occur in-situ by utilizing Hseparation membrane  for Hseparation within the temperature range where the B2 phase is expected for the applicable CuPdMcomposition.","Hseparation apparatus  may be utilized for the separation of Hfrom a gaseous mixture comprised of Hby generating the gaseous mixture utilizing Hproduction source , and porting the gaseous mixture from Hproduction means  to gaseous mixture reservoir  through conduit , thereby producing a first hydrogen partial pressure in gaseous mixture reservoir . The gaseous mixture may contact retentate side  of Hseparation membrane  by virtue of the fluid communication between gaseous mixture reservoir  and retentate side . Concurrently, Hgas reservoir  may be maintained at a second hydrogen partial pressure less than the first hydrogen partial pressure using means known in the art, for example a flushing gas entering through conduit  and exiting through conduit . As a result, Hseparates from the gaseous mixture in gaseous mixture reservoir  through Hseparation membrane  by dissociative chemisorptions of hydrogen on retentate side , dissolution of atomic hydrogen from the retentate side , pressure-driven diffusion of atomic hydrogen through Hseparation membrane , and recombinative desorption from permeate side , as is known in the art. Separated Hmay then enter Hgas reservoir  by virtue of the fluid communication between permeate side  and Hgas reservoir , and be subsequently removed from Hgas reservoir  using the flushing gas or other means for the removal of a gas from a reservoir. Hseparation apparatus  is thereby utilized to generate the separated Hin Hgas reservoir , where the separated His some portion of the Hcomprising the gaseous mixture in gaseous mixture reservoir . In an embodiment, the gaseous mixture contacts retentate side  of Hseparation membrane  at a temperature exceeding about 600\u00b0 C., where Hseparation membrane  is comprised of the ternary alloy CuPdMin a B2 phase.","The disclosure thus provides an Hseparation membrane comprised of an alloy having the composition CuPdM, where x is from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent and where y is from greater than 0 to about 20 atomic percent, and where M consists of magnesium, yttrium, aluminum, titanium, lanthanum, or combinations thereof. The CuPdMalloy generally maintains a B2 phase at temperatures exceeding comparable Cu\u2014Pd alloys, and allows for utilization of the higher Hpermeability of the B2 phase in operations where temperatures exceeding the critical temperature of Cu\u2014Pd alloys are routinely exceeded. Due to the phase stabilization and the greater temperature range over which a B2 phase can be maintained, the alloy is well suited for service as a Hseparation membrane, particularly when applicable conditions are established or cycled above about 600\u00b0 C. over the course of expected operations.","It is to be understood that the above-described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.","In addition, the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages, including but not limited to those described above. However, the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.","All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"CuPdMalloy; x = 43.75 at. %;"},{"entry":"y = 6.25 at. %; M = Mg, Y, Al, Ti, La"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Alloy","T(\u00b0 C.)","T(\u00b0 C.)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Mg","640",">860"]},{"entry":[{},"Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Y","575-600","675-700"]},{"entry":[{},"Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Al","650-675","825-850"]},{"entry":[{},"Cu\u2014Pd\u2014Ti","<400","775-800"]},{"entry":[{},"Cu\u2014Pd\u2014La","<400","625-650"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"287pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"WDXRF Chemical Analysis (wt. %)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"13"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"13","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Alloy","Cu",{},"Pd","Ti",{},"Mg","Zr",{},"Hf","Y","Al","La"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"13","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"13"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"13","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["PdCu","38.38",{},"61.52",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["PdCu","54.82",{},"45.08",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdTi","40.41",{},"56.49","3.10",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdTi","58.51",{},"38.22 ","3.26",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdZr","37.53",{},"56.04",{},{},{},"6.42",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdZr","56.5",{},"36.34",{},{},{},"7.15",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdHf","34.98",{},"51.52",{},{},{},{},{},"12.81",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdHf","52.81",{},"33.69",{},{},{},{},{},"13.14",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdY","37.41",{},"56.57",{},{},{},{},{},{},"5.61",{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdY","55.64",{},"37.70",{},{},{},{},{},{},"6.30",{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdLa","37.88",{},"53.26",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"8.85"]},{"entry":["CuPdLa","55.80",{},"36.93",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"7.23"]},{"entry":["CuPdAl","40.94",{},"56.26",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"7.81",{}]},{"entry":["CuPdAl","57.89",{},"39.07",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"2.11",{}]},{"entry":["CuPdMg","40.94",{},"57.39",{},{},"1.67",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CuPdMg","57.92",{},"40.98",{},{},"0.87"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"13","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":["(100-x-y)","x","y "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 11","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 12","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 13","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 15","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 16","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 17","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 18","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 19","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 20","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 21","sub":["50","43.75","6.25 "]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
