---
title: Simultaneously presenting an enhanced and primary stream associated with a digital television broadcast
abstract: An enhanced stream associated with a primary stream can be selected. The enhanced stream can be time-synchronized to the primary stream. The enhanced stream can be associated with a secondary viewpoint linked to a primary viewpoint of the primary stream. The primary stream can be a broadcast signal of a digital television broadcast. The enhanced stream can be simultaneously presented on a secondary device and the primary stream on a primary device. The primary device can be a computing device and the secondary device can be a computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09041860&OS=09041860&RS=09041860
owner: 
number: 09041860
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110531
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to the field of digital television and, more particularly, to simultaneously presenting an enhanced and primary stream associated with a digital television broadcast.","During sporting seasons, sports fans often converge in front of televisions to watch their favorite broadcasted sporting events. Ardent sports fans often watch their favorite teams from pre-season to post-season, attempting to catch every moment of sports coverage. Coverage often includes multiple cameras capturing footage which can be edited down into a single stream for broadcast. For example, coverage can include a first camera footage of a play followed by a second camera footage from a different perspective. Typically this second camera footage is often used for replays and analysis for commentators. This type of coverage is common place during sporting events, allowing fans to become immersed in the coverage by experiencing different vantage points of a game.","Fans often gather together to watch the broadcast at game-day parties in their homes when their favorite team is playing. These game-day parties often include large numbers of friends and relatives who are supporters of the playing teams. Many times, fans may want to re-watch a play which has been missed. For example, a quick trip to the restroom often results in a missed offensive play which can turn the tide of the game. Further, a fan may want to view a different version of the coverage (e.g., from a different camera angle). For example, a camera angle showing a defensive play which they missed. In these instances, fans must wait for recaps and\/or replays which may or may not show missed game footage.","In many of these gatherings, fans often have mobile phones which they can frequently look up sports scores (e.g., other ongoing games) and highlights. Many of these mobile phones have significant video and audio capabilities which often go untapped. For example, many smart phones can provide video-on-demand services from sports feeds to movies. It would be beneficial to leverage these mobile device capabilities to enhance game-day experience.","One aspect of the present invention can include a system, an apparatus, a computer program product, and a method for simultaneously presenting an enhanced and primary stream associated with a digital television broadcast. An enhanced stream associated with a primary stream can be selected. The enhanced stream can be time-synchronized to the primary stream. The enhanced stream can be associated with a secondary viewpoint linked to a primary viewpoint of the primary stream. The primary stream can be a broadcast signal of a digital television broadcast. The enhanced stream can be simultaneously presented on a secondary device and the primary stream on a primary device. The primary device can be a computing device and the secondary device can be a computing device.","Another aspect of the present invention can include a method, an apparatus, a computer program product, and a system for simultaneously presenting an enhanced and primary stream associated with a digital television broadcast. A media engine can be able to manage a primary stream and an enhanced stream. The enhanced stream can be synchronized with the primary stream. The primary stream is associated with a broadcast signal of a digital television broadcast. A data store can be able to persist synchronization data associated with the primary and enhanced stream.","Yet another aspect of the present invention can include a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having embedded computer usable program code. The computer usable program code can include an interface able to be configured to synchronously present a primary stream and an enhanced stream upon a plurality of computing devices. The primary stream can be associated with a digital television broadcast. An interface element associated with the interface can be operable to select an enhanced stream associated with a primary stream.","The present disclosure is a solution for simultaneously presenting an enhanced and primary stream associated with a digital television broadcast. In the solution, a primary stream can be associated with an aspect (e.g., field of view) of a content broadcast. The enhanced stream can be associated with a different aspect (e.g., different field of view) of the same content broadcast. The primary stream can be presented on a primary computing device. The enhanced stream can be concurrently presented on a secondary computing device. For example, the primary stream can be presented on a television and the enhanced stream can be presented on a mobile phone simultaneously. The enhanced stream can be time-synchronized to the primary stream. That is, the audio and video component of the enhanced stream and primary stream can be synchronized allowing concurrent playback. In one instance, the audio stream can be identical and the video stream can be different.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc., or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions.","These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","200","300","100","110","140","122","126","110","120","124","122","126","136","140","122","126","154","156","122","126","112"]},"As used herein, the primary stream  can be a broadcast stream associated with a broadcast signal (e.g., signal ). Primary stream  can be associated with one or more enhanced streams . Stream  can present different content which can be associated with the content of stream . That is, primary stream  and enhanced stream  can include different aspects of the same content. Enhanced stream  can be time synchronized to the primary stream  permitting the different aspects of the content to be viewed in tandem. For example, a viewer can watch a soccer game replay of a goal from the point of view of the goalie while another viewer can watch an alternate camera angle of the same goal at the same time.","In system , a capture stage  or presentation stage  can be optional. The capture stage  can include multiple cameras, multiple camera types, multiple capture devices, and the like. Primary stream  and\/or enhanced stream  can be determined based on broadcast source, camera , , and the like. For example, primary stream  can be determined based on stream quality (e.g., high definition verses standard definition). Capture stage  can occur historically, in real-time, and\/or near real-time.","In capture stage , an area  can be associated with two or more cameras , . Each camera ,  can be associated with a different field of view ,  respectively. For example, camera ,  can capture the same sporting event from different locations within an arena. Camera  field of view  can be associated with a primary stream . Camera  field of view  can be associated with an enhanced stream . In one instance, the enhanced stream  can be time synchronized to the primary stream  during the capture stage . Stream ,  can be conveyed to broadcast source . It should be appreciated that stream ,  can be conveyed to source  in real-time or near real-time.","Presentation stage  can occur historically and\/or concurrently with capture stage . For example, stage  can transpire approximately during the same interval (e.g., accounting for broadcast delay) when capture stage  is a part of a live broadcast. Presentation  can be associated with traditional digital television programming elements including, but not limited to, a set-top box (e.g., cable box), satellite receiver, a digital television, a digital television network, a home network, computing devices (e.g., home media server, mobile phone, etc), and the like.","In presentation  stage, the broadcast source  can convey a broadcast signal  to computing devices ,  via network . For example, primary stream  can be conveyed on a main channel and enhanced stream  can be conveyed on a subchannel associated with the main channel. Devices ,  can concurrently playback stream ,  upon receipt. In one instance, device ,  can be associated with a home network  which can allow playback of multiple streams ,  from a broadcast signal . In the instance, a broadcast channel associated with signal  can present stream ,  upon device ,  simultaneously. Stream ,  can be time synchronized permitting identical timing playback to occur upon device , . For example, the audio of stream ,  can be synchronized allowing the simultaneously presentation of different video with the same audio. In one embodiment, playback manipulation of primary stream  utilizing controls  can affect playback of stream . In another embodiment, playback manipulation of enhanced stream  via controls  can affect playback of stream .","Broadcast source  can include multiple broadcast sources including, but not limited to, a broadcast station, a digital television content provider, an internet protocol television (IPTV) content provider, a content provider, and the like. For example, broadcast source  can be associated with a digital cable service.","Stream ,  can differ based on quality, formats, sizing, aspect ratio, interlacing and the like. For example, stream  can be a high definition stream and stream  can be a standard definition stream. Further, stream ,  can differ in encoding based on target platform. For example, stream  can be encoded as a mobile format and delivered to a mobile phone (e.g., device ).","In one instance, enhanced stream  can be conveyed to a proximate device (e.g., cable box) which can be presented upon request. Enhanced stream  can be accessed in a variety of user initiated and non-user initiated mechanisms. In one embodiment, an enhanced stream  can be selected from an on-screen menu during the presentation of a primary stream . For example, a program guide can present available enhanced streams  associated with a primary stream .","In one instance, stream  can be conveyed on-demand to a device in response to a user selection. In the instance, a content guide can present device selection capabilities of available enhanced streams associated with a primary stream. In one embodiment, a list of proximate devices can be selected from a device presenting primary stream . In another embodiment, an enhanced stream  can be selected from a proximate device. For example, an enhanced stream  can be a pay-per-view mobile content associated with the primary stream  which can be presented on a tablet computer.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can utilize a primary stream and an enhanced stream obtained from any source (e.g., pre-recorded streams). System  can perform time-synchronization during capture  and\/or presentation  stage. System  can be a component of a distributed content system, distributed content delivery platform, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","100","300","200","242","260","262","242","260","262","260","262","230"]},"As used herein, stream ,  can include an audio and\/or a video element. Stream ,  can conform to traditional digital television and\/or Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) broadcast formats. Formats can include, but is not limited to MOVING PICTURE EXPERTS GROUP 2 (MPEG-2), MP3, Audio Codec 3 (AC-3), Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), MPEG-4, and the like. Stream ,  can include pre-recorded streams, \u201clive\u201d streams, time-delayed broadcast streams, and the like. Stream ,  can be stored within media engine , data store , and the like.","Media engine  can be a hardware\/software component for managing stream ,  synchronization and\/or presentation. Engine  functionality can include, but is not limited to, stream buffering, request negotiation, authentication, and the like. Engine  can be a distributed component communicatively linked to one or more playback and\/or presentation devices. Engine  can be a component of a content delivery platform, a set-top box, a television, a mobile computing device, and the like. In one instance, engine  can be a component of an application programming interface (API). In another instance, engine  can be a feature of a media plug-in of a media player.","Media handler  can be a hardware\/software element configured to manage stream , . Handler  functionality can include, but is not limited to: encryption\/decryption, encoding\/decoding, and the like. Handler  can utilize index  to process stream requests from one or more computing devices. For example, entry  can track a Stream_A1 stream request from a Device A device. Handler  can execute in real-time and\/or near real-time. In one instance, handler  can perform digital video recording functionality. For example, handler  can record a primary stream and three associated enhanced streams to data store .","Synchronization component  can be a hardware\/software entity for synchronizing enhanced stream  with primary stream . Component  functionality can include, frame skipping capabilities, real-time editing functions, playback capabilities, and the like. Component  can synchronize audio and\/or video elements of streams , . In one instance, component  can utilize index  to track timing parameters of streams ,  during playback. In the instance, component  can update index  in real-time or near real-time.","Configuration setting  can be one or more parameters for establishing the behavior of system . Setting  can include, but is not limited to, handler  settings, component  configuration, and the like. Setting  can be stored within engine , data store , and the like. Setting  can include user configured settings, content provider established parameters, stream ,  settings, index  settings, and the like.","Index  can be one or more data sets for maintaining synchronization and\/or playback of stream , . Index  can include, but is not limited to, device identifier, stream identifier, timing values, security settings, and the like. For example, index  can include entry  which can track multiple devices, multiple streams, and synchronization parameters. It should be appreciated that index  can be an optional component of system .","Interface  can be a user interactive component permitting interaction with a media engine and\/or stream , . Interface  can be a graphical user interface (GUI), voice user interface (VUI), mixed-mode interface, touch sensitive interface, and the like. In one instance, interface  can present stream  in response to a presentation of stream  upon a computing device. Interface  can be communicatively linked to computing device .","Data store  can be a hardware\/software component able to store stream index . Data store  can be a Storage Area Network (SAN), Network Attached Storage (NAS), and the like. Data store  can conform to a relational database management system (RDBMS), object oriented database management system (OODBMS), and the like. Data store  can be communicatively linked to computing device  and\/or media engine  in one or more traditional and\/or proprietary mechanisms.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. System  can be associated with one or more content delivery protocols and\/or network protocols. Protocols can include, but are not limited to, Internet Protocol (IP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Real-time Streaming Protocol (RTSP), Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP), and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","100","200","300"]},"In step , a primary stream associated with a broadcast signal can be selected. The primary stream can be automatically selected based on broadcast content provider management. For instance, the primary stream can be a movie being broadcast according to a program schedule. In step , an enhanced stream is identified. The enhanced stream can be identified automatically and\/or manually. In one instance, a viewer can select an enhanced stream associated with the primary stream. In the instance, information associated with the enhanced stream can be presented, enabling a viewer to decide on enhanced stream selection. In step , primary and enhanced streams can be synchronized. The synchronization can be performed automatically based on the enhanced stream selection.","In step , the primary stream can be conveyed to a primary device. In step , the primary stream can be presented upon the primary device. In step , the enhanced stream can be conveyed to the secondary device. In step , the enhanced stream can be synchronously presented upon the secondary device. In step , if more secondary devices are available, the method can return to step , else continue to step . In step , the method can end.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Method  can continuously execute steps - as a primary stream selection is modified.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["420","440","420","440","100","200","300","420","440","410","414","410","412","414","416","420","414","412","410","410","440","414","416","414"]},"In one configuration of the embodiment , secondary device  can include controls . Controls  can include on-screen controls, physical button controls, and the like. Controls  can include playback controls (e.g., play, pause), stream manipulation controls (e.g., pan, zoom), and the like. Upon selection of a zoom functionality from controls , zoom  command can be conveyed to primary device . Zoom  command can alter the presentation of stream  causing a zoom functionality to be executed. For example, a user can utilize tablet  to cause a portion of primary stream  to become twenty percent larger.","In one configuration of embodiment , a zoom action initiated upon secondary device via controls  can affect playback of enhanced stream . A primary stream (e.g., primary stream ) associated with the enhanced stream  can be unaffected. Zoom functionality associated with controls  can be dynamic and\/or static. For example, a lasso tool can be utilized to dynamically scale a user selected area.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that embodiments ,  can include any playback controls and\/or stream modification controls including, but not limited to, pan, zoom, rotate, aspect transform, visual filters, audio filters, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["460","460","100","200","300","460","464","467","461","467","461","466","462","464","464","464","461","464"]},"In one configuration of embodiment , on-screen menu  can be a selection menu allowing zooming functionality upon a primary stream  and enhanced stream  in real-time. Responsive to a selection of menu item within menu , a zoom  command can be conveyed to relevant devices. For example, menu  can permit a pre-defined zoom in functionality to be applied to stream  and enhanced stream . Region  can be presented upon device ,  upon receipt of command . It should be appreciated that region  can be similar based on stream ,  aspect ratios, encoding, fidelity, and the like.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that error handling can be associated with the embodiment , , . For example, if playback is interrupted, an appropriate error can be presented, indicating a failure to manipulate stream playback.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","100","200","300","500","512","510","524","520","520","520","524"]},"In one configuration of embodiment , secondary device  can include motion input capabilities (e.g., accelerometer) which can be mapped to stream modification functionality. For example, tilting the tablet (e.g., along the z-axis) to the right can pan the stream to the right presenting portion  of stream . In one instance, stream  can be unaffected by changes in stream .","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be understood that motion input able to manipulate stream can include, shaking, rotating, and the like. Further, motion input can be received from accessory devices including game controllers, remote controls, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["630","640","670","630","640","670","100","200","300","630","614","620","616","640","642","644","670","674","620","610"]},"In one configuration of embodiment , enhanced stream  can be automatically presented on device  when a picture-in-picture window functionality is activated. In another configuration of embodiment , enhanced stream  can be presented upon user selection. For example, a media player application executing upon device  can permit user selection (e.g., PIP selection ) of PIP window  content. In one instance, as PIP content changes, enhanced stream  can dynamically change.","In embodiment , an enhanced stream  can be repeatedly presented (e.g., looped) without affecting primary stream  playback via replay element  (e.g., control button overlay). In one instance, replay can be dynamically customized to user preferences. For example, a film strip can be presented of an enhanced stream  to permit user selection of replay content. Enhanced stream  can be a portion of primary stream , an enhanced stream and a primary stream, and the like.","In one configuration of embodiment , one or more annotations  can be created within a paused stream . Paused stream  can be an enhanced stream and\/or a primary stream. Paused stream  can be a user selected frame from a stream presented on device . Annotation  can include, but is not limited to text, polygons (e.g., circles, squares), freehand drawing, and the like. In one instance, annotation  can be conveyed to a picture-in-picture window  of a primary device .","In one embodiment, stream  manipulation can be enacted independently of stream . In the embodiment, manipulation can include annotations, picture freeze, zoom, pan, rotate, and the like. For example, visual overlay tools such as text tools, polygon tools, and freehand drawing tools can be presented during a paused stream , allowing a user to annotate the frame.","Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one instance, device  can \u201cpush\u201d stream  to device . In one configuration of the instance, device  can select PIP window  content which can be presented in PIP window . In another configuration of the instance, device  can select primary stream  which can be presented in device . In yet another configuration of the instance, content not associated with the primary stream  and enhanced stream  can be exchanged. For example, annotations created on device  associated with stream  can be conveyed and presented on device .","In one configuration of the embodiment , picture swapping capabilities can be present. For example, stream  can be swapped with stream  resulting in stream  presented on device  and stream  presented on device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","730","750","710","730","750","100","200","300","710","730","750","720","712","710","720","716","714","712","730","720","736","750","720","754","756","712"]},"In one configuration of embodiment , a user selection via remote  can present an enhanced stream  which can include content allowing zoom in\/out capabilities to be performed. For instance, up and down arrow keys on remote  can allow a user to zoom in and out of an enhanced stream . In one instance, enhanced stream  can include a wider field of view than primary stream . In the instance, a user selection  can present an enhanced stream which can be a widescreen formatted version of primary stream .","In one configuration of embodiment , a user selection via remote  can trigger an enhanced stream to be presented following a primary stream  presentation. In the configuration, an enhanced stream region  can be presented in response to a pan  action when primary stream  lacks sufficient content. It should be appreciated that embodiment  can be enacted for any user-initiated action including zoom, replay, and the like.","In one configuration of embodiment , a user selection  can present primary stream  and enhanced stream  simultaneously on device . In one instance, stream ,  can be dynamically stitched together to permit user interactions described herein. In one configuration of embodiment , remote control  can be utilized to interact with stream , , and the stitched stream.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the  illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
