---
title: Device information index and retrieval service for scalable video conferencing
abstract: A video conference invitation is sent from a computing device in a first conference room to a second conference room for a video conference. Further, an acceptance of the invitation is received at the computing device. In addition, a list of available devices for video conferencing is retrieved from a device information database. The list of available devices indicates a locally connected device and a remotely connected device. The computing device is connected to the video conference through a platform independent interface. Further, the computing device locally controls operation of the locally connected device through a platform independent interface during the video conference and remotely controls operation of the remotely connected device during the video conference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08736661&OS=08736661&RS=08736661
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08736661
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110603
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","This disclosure generally relates to video conferencing. More particularly, the disclosure relates to scalable video conferencing.","2. General Background","Room-based video conferencing has grown as a means of encouraging collaborative work among offices spread around the globe. In particular, room-based video conferencing has provided a substitute for travel and has greatly helped reduce business related travel expenses. Room-based video conferencing attempts to provide users with the appearance of sitting on the opposite side of a conference table from one or more remote parties. Transmitting HD video images and audio helps provide such an appearance. However, users sometimes have a hard time utilizing video conferencing systems. As a result, users may often take up a significant portion of an allotted meeting time to address technical issues.","A significant difficulty with current room-based video conferencing mostly rests in inconsistencies between device interface and terminologies utilized by various vendors of the devices typically present at various locations in a video conference. Accordingly, some technical issues become quite difficult to solve without expert vendor assistance. Therefore, some users may forego the benefits of video conferencing, e.g., reduced travel time, cost, and carbon dioxide emission in favor of travelling to avoid having a meeting that is significantly hampered by technical issues.","In one aspect of the disclosure, a computer program product is provided. The computer program product includes a computer useable medium having a computer readable program. The computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to send, from a computing device in a first conference room, a video conference invitation to a second conference room for a video conference. Further, the computer readable program when executed on the computer causes the computer to receive, at the computing device, an acceptance of the invitation. In addition, the computer readable program when executed on the computer causes the computer to retrieve, from a device information database, a list of available devices for video conferencing. The list of available devices indicates a locally connected device and a remotely connected device. The computer readable program when executed on the computer causes the computer to connect, from the computing device, to the video conference through a platform independent interface. Further, the computer readable program when executed on the computer causes the computer to locally control, with the computing device, operation of the locally connected device through a platform independent interface during the video conference. In addition, the computer readable program when executed on the computer causes the computer to remotely control, with the computing device, operation of the remotely connected device during the video conference.","In another aspect of the disclosure, a process is provided. The process sends, from a computing device in a first conference room, a video conference invitation to a second conference room for a video conference. Further, the process receives, at the computing device, an acceptance of the invitation. In addition, the process retrieves, from a device information database, a list of available devices for video conferencing. The list of available devices indicates a locally connected device and a remotely connected device. The process also connects, from the computing device, to the video conference through a platform independent interface. Further, the process locally controls, with the computing device, operation of the locally connected device through a platform independent interface during the video conference. In addition, the process remotely controls, with the computing device, operation of the remotely connected device during the video conference.","In yet another aspect of the disclosure, a system is provided. The system includes a transmission module that sends, from a computing device in a first conference room, a video conference invitation to a second conference room for a video conference. Further, the system includes a reception module that receives, at the computing device, an acceptance of the invitation. In addition, the system includes a retrieval module that retrieves, from a device information database, a list of available devices for video conferencing. The list of available devices indicates a locally connected device and a remotely connected device. Further, the system includes a connection module that connects, from the computing device, to the video conference through a platform independent interface. In addition, the system includes a controller that locally controls, with the computing device, operation of the locally connected device through a platform independent interface during the video conference and remotely controls, with the computing device, operation of the remotely connected device during the video conference.","A device information index and retrieval system addresses technical problems in a video conferencing environment. The device information index and retrieval system includes device information database records and indexes available device information. Further, the device information index and retrieval system generates a list of available devices for each user and the available devices in a conference room in which he or she is planning to have a meeting. The device information index and retrieval system utilizes a common interface so that all devices participating in the video conference may be accessed via common terminology and receive consistent feedback in the event of any technical issues. Further, the common interface allows a host device present in one physical conference room to view and control devices in a remote conference room.","The device information index and retrieval system may retrieve device information for each conferencing room participating in the video conference and allows users to efficiently utilize multiple options of devices for video conferencing. Further, the device information index and retrieval system may allow users to understand the technical specifications about available conferencing devices. The users may then be able to obtain helpful information that may allow them to solve any technical difficulties with the devices by themselves rather than having to take what may take a long time in contacting vendors for technical assistance. In addition, developers may design and implement common interfaces for users to manage and control devices for video conferencing or other usage.","Also, the device information index and retrieval system may be utilized to solve interoperability difficulties amongst different device vendors. For example, the device information may be utilized to connect systems across a common interface. Further, that common interface may be utilized to solve compatibility issues for certain devices that may have technical difficulties performing well in a video conferencing environment. As examples, users of a low-end laptop, a tablet device, or a smart phone, can obtain better connectivity to users in a video conferencing environment with a high end video conferencing systems. In addition, the common interface may provide for secure connectivity to address privacy concerns when the devices connect and sync with computer and other equipment inventory management systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","110","112","118","114","116","116","104","118","132","138","132","118","120","122","124","126","128","130","138","126","132","134","136","136","116","134","136","138","140","120","142","144","146","148","142","144","124","146","124"]},"The device information database per room or user  records and indexes available device information such as specifications, configurations, and vendor names for each conferencing room. In an alternative embodiment, the scalable video conferencing system  may utilize an existing conferencing equipment or computer inventory database for an enterprise. Accordingly, the scalable video conferencing system  may be utilized with an existing database. However, enterprise users may still utilize the device information database per room or user  even if such enterprise users already have an existing database.","The scalable video conferencing system  also has a calendar service  to set up a meeting or reserve a conference room during a certain time. Based on the availability of the conference room, the calendar service  accepts or rejects the meeting invitation. When the calendar service accepts the meeting request for a certain time, the user will be given permission to utilize the room and also view and control the devices in the room. Therefore, information about conferencing devices in the room will be retrieved and presented for users whether they are inside or outside of the room, but only during the certain meeting reservation hours.","The list of available devices for video conferencing  retrieves audio\/video\/camera device information on users' systems via platform application program interfaces (\u201cAPIs\u201d) or operating system specific APIs. Further, the list of available devices for video conferencing  synchronizes the local device information with a server located at the server tier  and with the device information database per room or user .","To achieve scalable video conferencing, the conferencing application utilizes device information from the list of available devices for video conferencing  and the device information database per room or user , sends\/receives device multimedia data, and populates high quality video and audio to users. Further, the conferencing application allows users to easily control and utilize those devices anywhere as far as they got permission through the calendar service .","In one embodiment, a device information and control service creates a list of available device information for each user in XML format. When a client sends the user name to the service, the service responds with the available device list information for the user to utilize for video conferencing. The list includes available devices in his or her local machine and also in the conference room he or she is planning to have a meeting. The device information and control service may handle control request and response for certain devices that can process control messages. For example, when the client sends a message of \u201cvideo camera turn on\u201d to the device information and control service, the device information and control service processes the request on the device and responds to the client with a success or fail message to communicate whether or not the device information and control service has successfully performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2C","FIG. 2A"],"b":["200","200","202","204","204","204","206","204","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["200","200","208","210","208","210","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"],"b":["200","212","212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","300","304","300","306","300","308","300","310","300","312","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","404","400","406","404","404"]},"The Input\/Output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) devices  can be coupled directly to the system configuration  or through intervening input\/output controllers. Further, the I\/O devices  may include a keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a microphone for capturing speech commands, a pointing device, and other user input devices that will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. Further, the I\/O devices  may include output devices such as a printer, display screen, or the like. Further, the I\/O devices  may include a receiver, transmitter, speaker, display, image capture sensor, biometric sensor, etc. In addition, the I\/O devices  may include storage devices such as a tape drive, floppy drive, hard disk drive, compact disk (\u201cCD\u201d) drive, etc. Any of the modules described herein may be single monolithic modules or modules with functionality distributed in a cloud computing infrastructure utilizing parallel and\/or pipeline processing.","Network adapters may also be coupled to the system configuration  to enable the system configuration  to become coupled to other systems, remote printers, or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems, cable modems, and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.","The processes described herein may be implemented in a general, multi-purpose or single purpose processor. Such a processor will execute instructions, either at the assembly, compiled or machine-level, to perform the processes. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of the figures corresponding to the processes and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer-aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying those instructions and include a CD-ROM, DVD, magnetic or other optical disc, tape, silicon memory (e.g., removable, non-removable, volatile or non-volatile), packetized or non-packetized data through wireline or wireless transmissions locally or remotely through a network. A computer is herein intended to include any device that has a general, multi-purpose or single purpose processor as described above.","It should be understood that the processes and systems described herein can take the form of entirely hardware embodiments, entirely software embodiments, or embodiments containing both hardware and software elements. If software is utilized to implement the method or system, the software can include but is not limited to firmware, resident software, microcode, etc.","It is understood that the processes and systems described herein may also be applied in other types of processes and systems. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various adaptations and modifications of the embodiments of the processes and systems described herein may be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the present processes, systems, and computer program products. Therefore, it is to be understood that, within the scope of the appended claims, the present processes, systems, and computer program products may be practiced other than as specifically described herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DRAWINGS","p":["The above-mentioned features of the present disclosure will become more apparent with reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals denote like elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
