---
title: Supporting a server-arbitrated group communication session over a local wireless network via a wireless wide area network proxy client
abstract: In an embodiment, a proxy client is positioned within a local wireless network (e.g., a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)) and maintains a connection to an application server in a Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN) that is separate from the local wireless network. The application server arbitrates group communication sessions between a plurality of user equipments (UEs). An Internet Protocol (IP) unicast connection is established between the proxy client and the application server. The proxy client associates with at least one of the UEs over the local wireless network, and notifies the application server of the association. The application server sends, to the proxy client, traffic associated with a group communication session to the associated UE(s). The proxy client re-transmits the received traffic via IP multicast over the wireless network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707391&OS=08707391&RS=08707391
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08707391
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110818
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","Embodiments relate to supporting a server-arbitrated group communication session over a local wireless network via a wireless wide area network (WWAN) proxy client.","2. Description of the Related Art","Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations, including a first-generation analog wireless phone service (1G), a second-generation (2G) digital wireless phone service (including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks) and a third-generation (3G) high speed data\/Internet-capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use, including Cellular and Personal Communications Service (PCS) systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS), and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), the Global System for Mobile access (GSM) variation of TDMA, and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.","The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association\/Electronic Industries Association in TIA\/EIA\/IS-95-A entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d referred to herein as IS-95. Combined AMPS & CDMA systems are described in TIA\/EIA Standard IS-98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT-2000\/UM, or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000\/Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA (W-CDMA), CDMA2000 (such as CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standards, for example) or TD-SCDMA.","In W-CDMA wireless communication systems, user equipments (UEs) receive signals from fixed position Node Bs (also referred to as cell sites or cells) that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network (AN)\/radio access network (RAN), which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Therefore, the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol (IP) network data packets.","In wireless telecommunication systems, Push-to-talk (PTT) capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a \u201cdispatch\u201d voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures, such as W-CDMA, CDMA, FDMA, TDMA, GSM, etc. In a dispatch model, communication between endpoints (e.g., UEs) occurs within virtual groups, wherein the voice of one \u201ctalker\u201d is transmitted to one or more \u201clisteners.\u201d A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call, or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group, which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information, such as group name or group identification.","In an embodiment, a proxy client is positioned within a local wireless network (e.g., a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)) and maintains a connection to an application server in a Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN) that is separate from the local wireless network. The application server arbitrates group communication sessions between a plurality of user equipments (UEs). An Internet Protocol (IP) unicast connection is established between the proxy client and the application server. The proxy client associates with at least one of the UEs over the local wireless network, and notifies the application server of the association. The application server sends, to the proxy client, traffic associated with a group communication session to the associated UE(s). The proxy client re-transmits the received traffic via IP multicast over the wireless network.","Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.","The words \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d are used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise, the term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","Further, many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of non-transitory computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the embodiments described herein, the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action.","A High Data Rate (HDR) subscriber station, referred to herein as user equipment (UE), may be mobile or stationary, and may communicate with one or more access points (APs), which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller (RNC). The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network (RAN). A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple UEs.","The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network, such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet, the Internet, public switched telephone network (PSTN), a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN), a Gateway GPRS Support Node (GGSN), and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE, and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel (TCH) connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card, compact flash device, external or internal modem, or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B(s) is called an uplink channel (e.g., a reverse traffic channel, a control channel, an access channel, etc.). The communication link through which Node B(s) send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel (e.g., a paging channel, a control channel, a broadcast channel, a forward traffic channel, etc.). As used herein the term traffic channel (TCH) can refer to either an uplink\/reverse or downlink\/forward traffic channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","120","102","126","102","108","110","112","102","108","110","112"]},"Referring back to , the components of the wireless communications system  and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System  is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs, such as wireless client computing devices , , ,  to communicate over-the-air between and among each other and\/or between and among components connected via the air interface  and RAN , including, without limitation, core network , the Internet, PSTN, SGSN, GGSN and\/or other remote servers.","The RAN  controls messages (typically sent as data packets) sent to a RNC . The RNC  is responsible for signaling, establishing, and tearing down bearer channels (i.e., data channels) between a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN) and the UEs \/\/\/. If link layer encryption is enabled, the RNC  also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC  is well-known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network  may communicate with the RNC  by a network, the Internet and\/or a public switched telephone network (PSTN). Alternatively, the RNC  may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically, the network or Internet connection between the core network  and the RNC  transfers data, and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC  can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network , the RNC  is typically connected to the Node Bs  by a network, the Internet and\/or PSTN for data transfer and\/or voice information. The Node Bs  can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs, such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs , RNC  and other components may form the RAN , as is known in the art. However, alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example, in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC  and one or more of the Node Bs  may be collapsed into a single \u201chybrid\u201d module having the functionality of both the RNC  and the Node B(s) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["126","126","160","165","175","175"]},"Generally, GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) phones for transmitting Internet Protocol (IP) packets. The GPRS Core Network (e.g., the GGSN  and one or more SGSNs ) is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W-CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network, provides mobility management, session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W-CDMA networks.","The GPRS Tunneling Protocol (GTP) is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users (e.g., access terminals) of a GSM or W-CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber's data from the subscriber's current SGSN  to the GGSN , which is handling the subscriber's session.","Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network; namely, (i) GTP-U, (ii) GTP-C and (iii) GTP\u2032 (GTP Prime). GTP-U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol (PDP) context. GTP-C is used for control signaling (e.g., setup and deletion of PDP contexts, verification of GSN reach-ability, updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another, etc.). GTP\u2032 is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.","Referring to , the GGSN  acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network (not shown) and the external packet data network . The GGSN  extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol (PDP) format (e.g., IP or PPP) from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN , and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction, the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN  to the SGSN  which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer (RAB) of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby, the GGSN  stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his\/her profile in its location register (e.g., within a PDP context). The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.","The SGSN  is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network , in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN  includes packet routing and transfer, mobility management (e.g., attach\/detach and location management), logical link management, and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information (e.g., current cell, current VLR) and user profiles (e.g., IMSI, PDP address(es) used in the packet data network) of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN , for example, within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus, SGSNs are responsible for (i) de-tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN , (ii) uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN , (iii) carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and (iv) billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, aside from (i)-(iv), SGSNs configured for GSM\/EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W-CDMA networks.","The RAN  (e.g., or UTRAN, in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) system architecture) communicates with the SGSN  via a Iu interface, with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN  communicates with the GGSN  via a Gn interface, which is an IP-based interface between SGSN  and other SGSNs (not shown) and internal GGSNs, and uses the GTP protocol defined above (e.g., GTP-U, GTP-C, GTP\u2032, etc.). While not shown in , the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System (DNS). The GGSN  is connected to a Public Data Network (PDN) (not shown), and in turn to the Internet , via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) gateway.","The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN  and the GGSN  which contains a particular UE's communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session, the UE must first attach to the SGSN  and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN  that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN  serving the UE's access point.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["100","1","120","1","3","120","162","162","188","175","182","184","186","170","2","5","120","164","162","164","188","175","182","184","186","170","4","175","175"]},"Referring to , UEs ,  and  . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell-phones, UE  is illustrated as a wireless tablet-PC and UE  is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However, in other embodiments, it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system  can connect to any type of UE, and the examples illustrated in  are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also, while the AAA , the provisioning server , the IMS\/SIP registration server  and the application server  are each illustrated as structurally separate servers, one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.","Further, referring to , the application server  is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes (MCCs)  . . . N B, and a plurality of regional dispatchers  . . . N A. Collectively, the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server , which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions (e.g., half-duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and\/or IP multicasting protocols) within the wireless communication system . For example, because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server  can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system , multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions (e.g., so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back-and-forth between session participants located in China). Thus, when reference is made to the application server , it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and\/or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session (e.g., handling signaling messages between the UEs, scheduling and\/or sending announce messages, etc.), whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance, including conducting an in-call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.","Referring to , a UE , (here a wireless device), such as a cellular telephone, has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from the RAN  that may ultimately come from the core network , the Internet and\/or other remote servers and networks. The platform  can include a transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d ), or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. The ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory  of the wireless device. The memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform  also can include a local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. The internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","Accordingly, an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, ASIC , memory , API  and local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of the UE  in  are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.","The wireless communication between the UE  or  and the RAN  can be based on different technologies, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example, in W-CDMA, the data communication is typically between the client device , Node B(s) , and the RNC . The RNC  can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network , PSTN, the Internet, a virtual private network, a SGSN, a GGSN and the like, thus allowing the UE  or  access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art, voice transmission and\/or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly, the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.","Below, embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W-CDMA protocols and associated terminology (e.g., such as UE instead of mobile station (MS), mobile unit (MU), access terminal (AT), etc., RNC, contrasted with BSC in EV-DO, or Node B, contrasted with BS or MPT\/BS in EV-DO, etc.). However, it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W-CDMA.","In a conventional server-arbitrated communication session (e.g., via half-duplex protocols, full-duplex protocols, VoIP, a group session over IP unicast, a group session over IP multicast, a push-to-talk (PTT) session, a push-to-transfer (PTX) session, etc.), a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server , which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN  for transmission to one or more targets of the call.","User Equipments (UEs), in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) (e.g., the RAN ) may be in either an idle mode or a radio resource control (RRC) connected mode.","Based on UE mobility and activity while in a RRC connected mode, the RAN  may direct UEs to transition between a number of RRC sub-states; namely, CELL_PCH, URA_PCH, CELL_FACH, and CELL_DCH states, which may be characterized as follows:\n\n","Accordingly, URA_PCH State (or CELL_PCH State) corresponds to a dormant state where the UE periodically wakes up to check a paging indicator channel (PICH) and, if needed, the associated downlink paging channel (PCH), and it may enter CELL_FACH state to send a Cell Update message for the following event: cell reselection, periodical cell update, uplink data transmission, paging response, re-entered service area. In CELL_FACH State, the UE may send messages on the random access channel (RACH), and may monitor a forward access channel (FACH). The FACH carries downlink communication from the RAN , and is mapped to a secondary common control physical channel (S-CCPCH). From CELL_FACH State, the UE may enter CELL_DCH state after a traffic channel (TCH) has been obtained based on messaging in CELL_FACH state. A table showing conventional dedicated traffic channel (DTCH) to transport channel mappings in radio resource control (RRC) connected mode, is in Table 1 as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DTCH to Transport Channel mappings in RRC connected mode"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RACH","FACH","DCH","E-DCH","HS-DSCH"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["CELL_DCH","No","No","Yes","Yes","Yes"]},{"entry":["CELL_FACH","Yes","Yes","No","Yes (rel. 8)","Yes (rel. 7)"]},{"entry":["CELL_PCH","No","No","No","No","Yes (rel.7)"]},{"entry":["URA_PCH","No","No","No","No","No"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"wherein the notations (rel. 8) and (rel. 7) indicate the associated 3GPP release where the indicated channel was introduced for monitoring or access."}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1","FIG. 4A","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["1","200","400","124","120","420","425","400","120","160","165","170","2","2","400","405","408","408","405","188","408","430","420"]},"As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, firewalls can be implemented in hardware, software or a combination of both. Firewalls are frequently used to prevent unauthorized Internet users from accessing private networks, in this case the service provider network or WWAN , that are connected to the Internet . The WWAN firewall  is configured to permit or deny network transmissions based upon a set of rules and other criteria. All messages entering or leaving the WWAN  via the Internet  pass through the WWAN firewall , which inspects each message and blocks those that do not meet the specified security criteria.","By punching through the WWAN firewall , the application server  can access the Internet . As shown in , the Internet  is connected to both WWAN  and WLAN . Through the Internet , the application server  of the WWAN  is theoretically connected to the WLAN , although it will be appreciated that the WLAN  has its own security (e.g., a NAT\/Firewall) that may block access.","Turning to the WLAN , the WLAN  includes the WLAN AP  (e.g., a WiFi router or hotspot, etc.) that was mentioned above, and further includes a Network Address Translation (NAT) component  and a WLAN firewall , which may alternatively be referred to as an Internet Service Provider (ISP) firewall. While the NAT  and WLAN firewall  are illustrated as separate entities or components in , it will be appreciated that their respective functions can be consolidated into a single server or switch in other embodiments of the invention (e.g., such as routing unit  of , for example).","Referring to , NAT  and WLAN firewall  separate the WLAN  from the Internet  and\/or other core networks or WLANs. For example, the NAT  can be configured to modify network address information in datagram (IP) packet headers such that outgoing Internet Protocol (IP) packets from the WLAN  appear to originate from the NAT  instead of the originator of the IP-packet (e.g., one of UEs  . . . N), and incoming IP packets appear to terminate at the NAT . The NAT  can be implemented in accordance with any of a variety of schemes of translating addresses and\/or port numbers, with each type of NAT-scheme affecting application communication protocols differently. For example, NAT-types include full-cone NAT (also known as one-to-one NAT), address-restricted cone NAT, port-restricted cone NAT and symmetric NAT.","With respect to the WLAN firewall , the WLAN firewall  can be implemented in hardware, software or a combination of both. Firewalls are frequently used to prevent unauthorized Internet users from accessing private networks, such as intranets, that are connected to the Internet . The WLAN firewall  is configured to permit or deny network transmissions based upon a set of rules and other criteria. All messages entering or leaving the WLAN  pass through the WLAN firewall , which inspects each message and blocks those that do not meet the specified security criteria. Further, the WLAN firewall  provides private addresses as defined in RFC 1918 to the hosts protected behind the WLAN firewall . Once a pass through connection is opened through the WLAN firewall , NAT translation association for the data session is often released by the NAT  within a few seconds of data inactivity for the session. Thus, the NAT  and WLAN Firewall  are used to collectively refer to the hardware and\/or software that performs the firewall and NAT functions for a particular intranet, in this case the WLAN .","It will be appreciated from a review of  that each of UEs  . . . N are shown as connected to the RAN  of the WWAN  in . The WWAN-connections of UEs  . . . N are directed to a WWAN-based session support implementation that is described in more detail below with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B"],"b":["1","1","400","170","400","1","400","405","1","420","420"]},"Referring to , the WWAN-only approach is simple and straight-forward to implement and raises no issues with regard to resolving the NAT  and\/or firewall  within the WLAN . However, while relatively simple to implement, the WWAN-only approach is also not very scalable. For example, for N group members, the downlink bandwidth consumption between the RAN  and UEs  . . . N in an IP unicasting implementation is N\u00d7B, where B is the downlink bandwidth allocated to each UE. As N increases, more precious bandwidth of the WWAN  is consumed. Also, while the bandwidth-consumption issue associated with group communication sessions can be mitigated somewhat if the RAN  is configured to support IP multicasting protocols, the current deployment of broadcast\/multicast systems that support IP multicasting is relatively low.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["1","3","420","500","425","4","400","120","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["1","1","400","170","500","505","1","400","510","515"]},"Referring to , at some later point in time, assume that UEs  . . .  detect the WLAN  via AP , B, and that UEs  . . .  connect to the WLAN , B. Once UEs  . . .  are connected to the WLAN , UEs  . . .  negotiate with the application server  to transition their respective session support for the group communication session from the WWAN  to the WLAN , B. For example, the negotiation of B can include, for each of UEs  . . . , opening the NAT  and firewall  for traffic between UEs  . . .  within the WLAN  and the WWAN , and also opening WWAN firewall  and NAT  within the WWAN  so traffic from the WLAN  is not blocked by the WWAN .","It will be appreciated that the WLAN  generally is associated with more scalability and capacity as compared to the WWAN , and also has lower associated bandwidth costs. However, the negotiation of B can be relatively complicated to achieve and there is no explicit guarantee that the negotiation will be successful for each of UEs  . . . . For example, the negotiation shown at B relies upon the deployment of application layer gateways (ALGs) within the Internet  as well as specialized procedures within both the WLAN  and WWAN . If either the WLAN or WWAN fail to implement these specialized procedures and\/or the ALGs are not available, the negotiation of B may fail and UEs  . . .  may be unable to transition their session from the WWAN  to the WLAN .","Assuming that UEs  . . .  are able to set-up a connection to the application server  via the WLAN , UEs  . . .  will continue in the group communication session by exchanging signaling messages and\/or media associated with the group communication session over the WLAN , B, while UEs  . . . N continue to participate in the group communication session via the WWAN .","Accordingly, the WWAN-specific approach described above with respect to  is simple to implement, but cannot leverage the enhanced bandwidth, improved latency performance and lower costs that are associated with WLANs. Also, the hybrid WLAN-WWAN approach described above with respect to  can be difficult to implement, especially when firewalls and\/or NATs are present within the WLAN  and\/or the WWAN .","Embodiments of the invention are directed to a hybrid WWAN-WLAN session support implementation for a group communication session arbitrated by the application server  whereby a proxy client of the application server  maintains a connection to the WWAN . Instead of setting up separate connections for each UE that is attempting to connect to the application server , the UEs instead connect to the proxy client, which functions as a proxy for the application server  within the WLAN . The application server  maintains a single IP unicast connection (e.g., via the WWAN  or the WLAN ) to the proxy client which is configured to carry all traffic for UEs that are served by the proxy client within the WLAN  in association with a particular group communication session. Thus, as UEs are added and\/or removed to the group communication session via the WLAN , the respective UEs need not negotiate with the application server  for a separate connection and instead are simply added to or removed from the proxy client's group of supported UEs within the WLAN .","Further, while the embodiments described below are primarily directed to an implementation whereby the proxy client  maintains a WWAN IP unicast connection to the application server , in other embodiments the proxy client  may instead be connected to the application server  via a WLAN IP unicast connection.","Referring to , the infrastructure contained within WLAN  and WWAN  is for the most part similar to  and\/or . However, in , UEs  . . .  are shown as connected to different APs  within WLAN . Thus, coverage area  is representative of the collective coverage areas of a plurality of APs of the WLAN  that are each behind the NAT  and firewall , and is not necessarily restricted to the coverage area of one particular AP . However, it is also possible in another implementation that each UE connects to the WLAN  via a single AP  and\/or that WLAN  only includes a single AP . Collectively, the set of AP(s)  that are behind the NAT  and firewall  of the WLAN  may correspond to a customer premise that includes geographically co-located UEs expected to, from time to time, participate in group communication sessions with each other (e.g., employees at a particular job-site, etc.).","Also illustrated in  is a proxy client . The proxy client  corresponds to a UE that is positioned within the coverage area  of the WLAN  and is also positioned within a coverage area (not shown) of the WWAN . The proxy client  is configured to connect to both the WLAN  and WWAN  concurrently. While the proxy client  is illustrated in  as a wireless communications device, it will be appreciated that in another embodiment of the invention the proxy client  may be connected to the WLAN  via a wired connection and can form part of the infrastructure of the WLAN . In an example, the proxy client can correspond to a wireless communication device or UE that is positioned in the coverage area  specifically to facilitate its function as a proxy can thereby be considered a dedicated proxy client. In another example, the proxy client can correspond to an ad hoc proxy client in the sense that the proxy client is loaded onto a UE that is also used for other purposes, such as a subscriber device. It will be appreciated that if the proxy client is loaded onto a UE that is participating in a communication session for which the UE is also acting as proxy, a proxy election mechanism may be implemented so that the session can recover if the UE loses its connection to the WLAN .","As will be described in greater detail below with respect to , the proxy client is configured to be the point-of-contact for the application server  to UEs that are supported by the WLAN  during group communication sessions that are arbitrated by the application server . The proxy client  is configured to establish an IP unicast connection to the application server  through the WWAN  for receiving media for any of the UEs supported via the WLAN . For downlink media traffic of a particular group communication session, the application server  can send a single instance of the downlink media traffic via the IP unicast connection to the proxy client , and the proxy client  can then re-transmit the downlink traffic within the WLAN  (e.g., via one or more of APs ) using IP multicasting protocols. In an alternative embodiment, the IP unicast connection between the proxy client  and application server  can instead be carried over the WLAN  and the Internet . In this case, it will be appreciated that the proxy client  may first have to overcome the NAT\/Firewalls of the WLAN  and\/or the WWAN  in order to facilitate this connection, as discussed above with respect to . Thus, at a high level, the embodiments of the invention are directed to a proxy client that functions as a single point of contact for the application server  to provide coverage to a number of UEs behind a WLAN, and the connection between the proxy client and the application server  can be configured in a number of different ways.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6"],"b":["170","605"]},"Referring to , the proxy client  establishes a connection to the WLAN , A, and also establishes a connection over the WWAN  to the application server , A. At some later point in time, a given originating UE among UEs  . . . N sets up a group communication session between UEs  . . . N over the WWAN  that is arbitrated by the application server , A and A. Accordingly, at this point, the proxy client  is not supporting the group communication session over the WLAN  and instead each of UEs  . . . N are WWAN clients that exchange signaling messages and\/or media associated with the group communication session over the WWAN  during the group communication session, A and A.","Referring to , at some later point in time during the group communication session, assume that UE  detects the WLAN  via one of the APs  within the coverage area , A, and that UE  connects to the WLAN , A. Once UE  is connected to the WLAN , instead of attempting to set-up its own independent connection to the application server  via the WLAN  as discussed above with respect to , UE  detects the presence of the proxy client  within the WLAN , A.","Referring to A of , in an example, UE  may detect the proxy client  by receiving a periodic proxy announcement message sent by the proxy client . The proxy client  will send this proxy announcement message as a broadcast or multicast message and this will be broadcast or multicast by the AP(s) . Alternatively, UE  can first send the proxy-ping message as a broadcast (or multicast) message which will be broadcast (or multicast) by the AP(s) . Once hearing this message, the proxy client  will respond to UE  and UE  detects the proxy client .","After detecting the proxy client , UE  registers with the proxy client  in order to transition UE 's support for the group communication session from the WWAN  to the WLAN  via the proxy client , A. For example, during the registration of A, as will be described in greater detail below with respect to , UE  may be provisioned with a multicast media access control (MAC) ID used to identify IP multicast traffic associated with the group communication session within the WLAN . After UE  registers with the proxy client , the proxy client  notifies the application server , via the WWAN connection of the proxy client , that UE  is associated with the proxy client  within the WLAN , A. The application server  receives the notification from the proxy client  and updates a list of UEs that are determined to be associated with, or supported by, the proxy client  within the WLAN , A. While not shown explicitly within , the notification of A may function as a trigger for the application server  to stop supporting the group communication session to UE  via the WWAN  and to begin supporting the group communication session to UE  via the WLAN  through the proxy client .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B"],"b":["605","170","1","420","605","170","605","700","170","2","400","705","2","400","170","710"]},"Upon receiving the media from the application server  in B, the proxy client  re-transmits the media to UE  via IP multicasting protocols, B. For example, during the registration of UE  with the proxy client  in A of , the proxy client  may inform UE  of a multicast identifier, such as a media access control (MAC) identifier, for multicast traffic associated with the group communication session within the WLAN . UE  may then begin to monitor for any traffic directed to the group or multicast MAC ID from the AP(s)  of the WLAN . At B, the proxy client  can request that the AP(s)  of the WLAN  transmit the media in data packets that include the multicast MAC ID of the group communication session in a header portion. In B, UE  receives the media re-transmitted on behalf of the proxy client  from a current serving AP , identifies the multicast MAC ID contained therein and then plays back the received media. Accordingly, the proxy client  can receive a single IP unicast stream of the session traffic from the application server  (e.g., in this example, over the WWAN) and then re-transmit or echo this session traffic throughout the coverage area  of the WLAN  via the AP(s)  using IP multicasting protocols.","In an example, UE  may complete its transition from WWAN-support for the communication session to proxy-support for the communication session either responsive to an ACK to its registration with the proxy in A of , or alternatively upon receipt of session media from the proxy in B. Thus, until the ACK and\/or the session media is received at UE , UE  may remain in the session as a WWAN-based participant.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7B","FIG. 8"],"b":["605","420","1","1","3"]},"Referring to , the application server  continues to transmit media for the group communication session to the proxy client  over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection, , and the application server  also continues to send the same media for the group communication session to UEs  . . . N over the WWAN  via IP unicasting protocols, . UEs  . . . N receive the media over the WWAN  from the application server  and playback the received media in  and . Upon receiving the media from the application server  in , the proxy client  re-transmits the media to UE  via IP multicasting protocols over the WLAN , , as discussed above with respect to B of . In , UE  receives the media re-transmitted on behalf of the proxy client  from a current serving AP , identifies the multicast MAC ID contained therein and then plays back the received media, similar to B of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0088"},"b":["800","820","2","3","420","425","600","822","2","3","420","425","825","2","3","420","170","420","2","3","605","420","830","605","2","3","830","1","740"],"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5B","FIG. 7A"]},"After detecting the proxy client , UEs  and  each register with the proxy client  in order to transition the support of UEs  and  for the group communication session from the WWAN  to the WLAN  via the proxy client , . For example, during the registration of , UEs  and  may each be provisioned with a multicast MAC ID used to identify IP multicast traffic associated with the group communication session within the WLAN .","After UEs  and  register with the proxy client , the proxy client  notifies the application server , via the WWAN connection of the proxy client , that UEs  and  are now associated with the proxy client  within the WLAN , . The application server  receives the notification from the proxy client  and updates a list of UEs that are determined to be associated with, or supported by, the proxy client  within the WLAN , . In this case, the application server  updates the list of UEs associated with the proxy client  to reflect that UEs  . . .  are each being supported by the proxy client  within the WLAN . While not shown explicitly within , the notification of  may function as a trigger for the application server  to stop supporting the group communication session to UEs  and  via the WWAN  and to begin supporting the group communication session to UEs  and  via the WLAN  through the proxy client .","At this point, the application server  will simply use the pre-established WWAN-based IP unicast connection to the proxy client  (which is already being used for supporting UE ) for supporting UEs  and  as well. Accordingly, the application server  continues to transmit media for the group communication session to the proxy client  over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection, . For example, the manner in which the IP unicast traffic carrying the media for the group communication session in  need not change in  as compared to , although it will be appreciated that the media of  is targeted for each of UEs  . . .  instead of only UE . In other words, only a single media stream is conveyed from the application server  to the proxy client , whereby the proxy client  will then re-transmit this media stream to each of its supported UEs via IP multicasting over the WLAN . Also, the application server  can discontinue its support of UEs  and  via the WWAN , such that the overall level of backhaul traffic transmitted by the application server  is reduced.","Referring to , in addition to transmitting the stream of media for the group communication session to the proxy client  within the WLAN , the application server  also continues to send the same media for the group communication session to UEs  . . . N over the WWAN  via IP unicasting protocols, . UEs  . . . N receive the media over the WWAN  from the application server  and playback the received media in .","Upon receiving the media from the application server  in , the proxy client  re-transmits the media to UEs  . . .  via IP multicasting protocols over the WLAN , . For example, as discussed above, UEs  . . .  may be notified of the multicast MAC ID for the group communication session during their respective registrations with the proxy client , and UEs  . . .  may then begin to monitor for any traffic directed to the group or multicast MAC ID from the AP(s)  of the WLAN . At , the proxy client  can request that the AP(s)  of the WLAN  transmit the media in data packets that include the multicast MAC ID of the group communication session in a header portion. In  and , UEs  . . .  each receive the media re-transmitted on behalf of the proxy client  from respective serving AP(s) , UEs  . . .  identify the multicast MAC ID contained therein and UEs  . . .  then playback the received media. Accordingly, the proxy client  can receive a single IP unicast stream of the session traffic from the application server  (e.g., over the WWAN, in this example) and then re-transmit or echo this session traffic throughout the coverage area  of the WLAN  via the AP(s)  using IP multicasting protocols, in this case to UEs  . . . . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the connections between UEs  . . . N and the proxy client  to the WWAN  and\/or the WLAN  as shown in  are representative of the state of the group communication session after the process of  is executed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 8","FIG. 9A"],"b":["1","420","605","1","170","1","605"]},"Referring to , at some point after  of , assume that UE  exits the coverage area  of the WLAN , A. Accordingly, UE  is now unable to receive the IP multicast traffic that is re-transmitted by the proxy client  throughout the coverage area  of the WLAN . Upon detecting UE 's disconnection from the WLAN , UE  reestablishes its own independent connection to the WWAN , if necessary, and then transmits a notification over the WWAN  to the application server  that indicates UE  is no longer associated with the proxy client  within the WLAN , A. The application server  receives the notification from UE  and updates a list of UEs that are determined to be associated with, or supported by, the proxy client  within the WLAN , A. In this case, the application server  updates the list of UEs associated with the proxy client  to reflect that UEs  and  (and not UE ) are being supported by the proxy client  within the WLAN . The notification of A may function as a trigger for the application server  to renew its support of the group communication session to UE  via the WWAN .","Accordingly, the application server  continues to transmit media for the group communication session to the proxy client  over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection, A. For example, the manner in which the IP unicast traffic carrying the media for the group communication session need not change in A as compared to  of , although it will be appreciated that the media of A is targeted for UEs  and  instead of UEs  . . . .","Referring to , in addition to transmitting the stream of media for the group communication session to the proxy client  over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection, the application server  also sends the same media for the group communication session to UEs  and  . . . N over the WWAN  via IP unicasting protocols, A. UEs  and  . . . N receive the media over the WWAN  from the application server  and playback the received media in A and A.","Upon receiving the media from the application server  in A, the proxy client  re-transmits the media to UEs  . . .  via IP multicasting protocols over the WLAN , A. For example, as discussed above, UEs  . . .  may be notified of the multicast MAC ID for the group communication session during their respective registrations with the proxy client , and UEs  . . .  may then begin to monitor for any traffic directed to the group or multicast MAC ID from the AP(s)  of the WLAN . At A, the proxy client  can request that the AP(s)  of the WLAN  transmit the media in data packets that include the multicast MAC ID of the group communication session in a header portion. In A, UEs  . . .  each receive the media re-transmitted on behalf of the proxy client  from respective serving AP(s) , UEs  . . .  identify the multicast MAC ID contained therein and UEs  . . .  then playback the received media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 8","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["1","420","605","605","170","1","605","1"]},"Referring to , at some point after  of , assume that UE  exits the coverage area  of the WLAN , B. Accordingly, UE  is now unable to receive the IP multicast traffic that is re-transmitted by the proxy client  throughout the coverage area  of the WLAN . At some point after UE 's disconnection from the WLAN , the proxy client B detects UE 's disconnection and determines that UE  is no longer associated with the proxy client , B. For example, so long as UEs remain associated with the proxy client  within the WLAN , the UEs may each be required to send periodic keep-alive packets to the proxy client  in order to maintain their association with the proxy client . Accordingly, the detection of B may correspond to a determination, by the proxy client , that a threshold period of time has elapsed from a previous keep-alive packet from UE  based on an expiration of a keep-alive timer for UE .","Upon detecting UE 's disassociation from the proxy client , the proxy client  transmit a notification over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection to the application server  that indicates UE  is no longer associated with the proxy client  within the WLAN , B. After B, B through B substantially correspond to A through A, respectively, of , and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.","Referring to , UE 's disassociation is described as being a result of UE  exiting the coverage area  of the WLAN  while still remaining in the group communication session via the WWAN  after the disconnection. In another example implementation, a user of UE  may simply decide to drop out of the group communication entirely, irrespective of whether UE  remains inside of or outside of the coverage area  of the WLAN . In this case, it will be appreciated that the application server  may still be notified of UE 's disassociation from the proxy client  but that the application server  would not resume support for the group communication session to UE  over the WWAN  after the disassociation.","With respect to , UEs  . . . N are generally described as being recipients or targets of traffic associated with the group communication session. However, it is also possible that one or more of UEs  . . . N may transmit to the communication group from time to time. For example, if the group communication session corresponds to a half-duplex or hybrid-duplex PTT session, a particular UE or set of UEs among UEs  . . . N may correspond to floor-holders that transmit media (e.g., video, audio, etc.) to the rest of the group. Accordingly,  are directed to examples whereby a given UE that is supported by the proxy client  can send data (e.g., media, signaling messages such as floor-request messages, etc.) to the application server  during the group communication session. In particular,  is directed to an implementation whereby reverse-link data is transmitted from UE  to the application server  via the proxy client  in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, and  is directed to an implementation whereby reverse-link data is transmitted from UE  to the application server  directly (i.e., not through the proxy client ) in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.","Referring to , during the processes of  or  while UE  is participating in the group communication session via the proxy client  within the WLAN , UE  determines whether to transmit data to the application server , A. As noted above, the data can correspond to a floor-request message, media to be transmitted to UEs  . . . N and\/or other data.","In the embodiment of , assume that UE  determines to transmit the data to the application server  in A. Accordingly, in A, UE  sends the data to the proxy client  via IP unicast within the WLAN . For example, an IP address or unicast MAC ID of the proxy client  may be conveyed to UE  during UE 's earlier registration with the proxy client  at A of , and UE  may use the IP address or unicast MAC ID to transmit the data to the proxy client  at A. Upon receiving the data from UE , the proxy client  transmits the data from UE  to the application server  on behalf of UE  over the WWAN , A.","Referring to , during the processes of  or  while UE  is participating in the group communication session via the proxy client  within the WLAN , UE  determines whether to transmit data to the application server , B. As noted above, the data can correspond to a floor-request message, media to be transmitted to UEs  . . . N and\/or other data. In the embodiment of , assume that UE  determines to transmit the data to the application server  in B. Accordingly, in B, UE  sends the data to the application server  in a direct manner over the WWAN , i.e., not through the proxy client , B.","In the embodiments described with respect to , the proxy client  is described as connected to the application server  via a WWAN-based IP unicast connection, whereby downlink session traffic for UEs supported by the proxy client  is received over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection and then re-transmitted via IP multicast over the WLAN  and uplink session traffic for UEs is sent to the proxy client  over the WLAN  and then re-transmitted to the application server over the WWAN-based IP unicast connection. However, in other embodiments, the IP unicast connection between the proxy client  and the application server  can instead be implemented as a WLAN-based IP unicast connection. In this case, a WLAN-to-WWAN connection can be established between the proxy client  and the application server  by punching through the NATs and\/or Firewalls within the WLAN  and WWAN  as discussed above with respect to , in an example.","While the embodiments described above describe UEs that connect to a proxy client located behind the NAT and\/or firewall of a WLAN, it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to proxy clients that are connected through other types of local (or short-range) wireless networks that are separate from the WWAN, such as a Bluetooth pico-cell, for example.","While references in the above-described embodiments of the invention have generally used the terms \u2018call\u2019 and \u2018session\u2019 interchangeably, it will be appreciated that any call and\/or session is intended to be interpreted as inclusive of actual calls between different parties, or alternatively to data transport sessions that technically may not be considered as \u2018calls\u2019. Also, while above-embodiments have generally described with respect to PTT sessions, other embodiments can be directed to any type of communication session, such as a push-to-transfer (PTX) session, an emergency VoIP call, etc.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of non-transitory storage medium known in the art. An exemplary non-transitory storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the non-transitory storage medium. In the alternative, the non-transitory storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the non-transitory storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal (e.g., access terminal). In the alternative, the processor and the non-transitory storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","In one or more exemplary embodiments, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a non-transitory computer-readable medium. Non-transitory computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other non-transitory medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a non-transitory computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of embodiments of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings which are presented solely for illustration and not limitation of the invention, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 10B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
