---
title: Virtual inmate visitation
abstract: Included are systems and methods for a virtual inmate visitation. Some embodiments include providing a scheduling user interface for a visitor to schedule a video visitation, receiving a visitor scheduling request for the video visitation with an inmate, and determining a visitor type for the visitor. Some embodiments include providing, based on the visitor type, a scheduling option, providing a visitor payment mechanism that depends on the visitor type, and providing a video visitation user interface to the visitor for conducting the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate. Still some embodiment include in response to receiving a visitor input, conduct the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate, determining whether the video visitation includes an unacceptable activity and performing a preventative measure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08648894&OS=08648894&RS=08648894
owner: Eyconix, LLC
number: 08648894
owner_city: West Chester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Presently, those wishing to visit an incarcerated individual are required to travel to the facility where the individual is housed. The facility may be a county jail, municipal jail, state prison, federal facility, mental hospital, rehabilitation facility, etc. and may have varying regulations related to visitations. In many instances, the facility will have predetermined visitation times for visitors. Accordingly, a visitor may be required to arrive at the facility at a predetermined time and may be subject to one or more security checks. In many instances, these restrictions reduce the opportunity for visitors, such as family, friends, attorneys, clergy, social workers, law enforcement personnel, etc. to see the incarnated individual. Consequently, many of these individuals who would otherwise visit the inmate may not have the opportunity to do so.","Additionally, while many such facilities encourage visits to the inmates, these visits may pose a security risk to the facility, to the inmate, and\/or to the visitor. More specifically, many visitors attempt to smuggle contraband to an inmate. Other visitors may themselves be at risk during (or after) their visit to the facility. Consequently, many facilities invest great expense and effort to protect the safety and security of the facility, inmates, employees, and visitors.","Included are systems and methods for a virtual inmate visitation. Some embodiments of a system include a memory component that stores video visitation logic that, when executed by the system, causes the system to provide a scheduling user interface for a visitor to schedule a video visitation, receive a visitor scheduling request for the video visitation with an inmate, and determine a visitor type for the visitor. In some embodiments, the virtual visitation logic causes the system to provide, based on the visitor type, a scheduling option, provide a visitor payment mechanism that depends on the visitor type, and provide a video visitation user interface to the visitor for conducting the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate. In some embodiments, the virtual visitation logic further causes the system to, in response to receiving a visitor input, conduct the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate, determine whether the video visitation includes an unacceptable activity, and perform a preventative measure.","Embodiments of a method for virtual inmate visitation include providing a scheduling user interface for a visitor to schedule a video visitation, receiving a visitor scheduling request for the video visitation with an inmate, and determining a visitor type for the visitor. Some embodiments include providing, based on the visitor type, a scheduling option, where the scheduling option changes based on the visitor type, providing a visitor payment mechanism that depends on the visitor type, where the visitor payment mechanism changes based on the visitor type, and providing a video visitation user interface to the visitor for conducting the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate. Further, some embodiments include, in response to receiving a visitor input, conducting the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate, determining whether the video visitation includes an unacceptable activity and in response to determining that the video visitation includes the unacceptable activity, performing a preventative measure.","Embodiments of a non-transitory computer-readable medium for virtual inmate visitation include logic that causes a computing device to provide a registration user interface for registering a visitor, determine a visitor type from a visitor selection on the registration user interface, and provide a scheduling user interface for the visitor to schedule a video visitation. In some embodiments, the logic causes the computing device to receive a visitor scheduling request for the video visitation with an inmate, provide, based on the visitor type, a scheduling option, where the scheduling option changes based on the visitor type, and provide a visitor payment mechanism that depends on the visitor type, where the visitor payment mechanism changes based on the visitor type. In still some embodiments, the logic causes the computing device to provide a video visitation user interface to the visitor for conducting the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate, in response to receiving a visitor input, conduct the video visitation between the visitor and the inmate, determine whether the video visitation includes an unacceptable activity and in response to determining that the video visitation includes the unacceptable activity, perform a preventative measure.","Other embodiments and\/or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features, and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.","Embodiments disclosed herein include systems and methods for virtual inmate visitation. As background, inmates in local, state, and federal corrections facilities, as well as mental hospitals, rehabilitation centers, etc. often have visitors to the facility in which they are incarcerated. Many inmates have family, friends, attorneys, pastors, and\/or others who routinely visit the inmate. Certain visitors, such as family and friends may be restricted to predetermined visiting hours, which may be difficult to meet. Additionally, if the inmate is incarcerated in a different city than his\/her family and friends, visitation may be difficult. With regard to legal and religious visitors, it is often inefficient for the visitor to travel to the corrections facility. Further, from a corrections facility perspective, visitors pose a security risk, both in terms of smuggling contraband and safety of the visitors, inmates, and facility personnel. As such, alternatives and supplements to in-person visitations are desired.","Embodiments disclosed herein include secured local area and\/or wide area video visitation capabilities that enable visitors to conduct \u201cvirtual visitations\u201d with an inmate. As an example, embodiments of the system may be configured to coordinate visitation times and dates with the facility, provide a video conference experience between the inmate and the visitor, provide dynamic security based on the type of visitor, as well as provide security measures based on the content of a communication between the inmate and his\/her visitor.","In addition, some embodiments of the system may be configured to provide a user interface for gaining security clearance, scheduling virtual visits, scheduling in-person visits, providing the virtual visitation, as well as providing monitoring of the virtual visitation. As an example, once the visitor is logged onto the system, the inmate may be brought to a monitor and the visitation takes place with law enforcement monitoring via a peripheral monitoring system. In some embodiments, the monitoring may include electronic voice and\/or video recognition capabilities to identify when conversations turn to potentially harmful or illegal activities. Other security measures may also be in place, such as providing custom clearance levels based on the type of visitor. As an example, friends and family may only be permitted to visit the inmate during predetermined visiting hours, while clergy and legal counsel may be permitted to visit the prisoner at other times.","Other security measures may also be implemented. As an example, the system may be configured to automatically record audio and\/or video related to the virtual visitation, as well as provide the recorded data to the visitor and\/or an administrator. Some embodiments may be configured to begin recording in response to predetermined triggering actions that may indicate harmful or illegal activity. As an example, triggering actions may include voice recognized words or commands, video recognized signals, facial expressions, etc. In some embodiments, the system may be configured to shut down the virtual visitation in response to determining the triggering action, as well as reassess the security clearance for the visitor that is associated with the triggering action.","Still some embodiments may be configured to facilitate a payment mechanism for providing the service. As an example, the system may provide an interface and other infrastructure for requiring payments for a visitor to utilize the system. In some embodiments, the payment structure may be dependent on the type of visitor (e.g., friend, family, clergy, legal counsel, etc.). While in some embodiments, the payment structure may depend on the amount of use, the security risk of that visitor, and\/or other factors. These and other features and embodiments are described in more detail below.","Referring now to the drawings,  depicts a computing environment for providing a virtual inmate visitation. As illustrated, a network  may be coupled to a visitor computing device , an inmate computing device , a remote computing device , a warden computing device , and a guard computing device . The network  may include a wide area network and\/or a local area network and thus may be wired and\/or wireless. The visitor computing device may be a computer at a person's home, at a law firm, at a court, and\/or elsewhere. The visitor computing device may include any portable and\/or non-portable computing devices, such as personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), mobile phones, etc that is configured for video communications. The inmate computing device may also be a device configured for video communications. However, all features of the inmate computing device may not be available to the inmate. More specifically, inmate computing device may be configured as a kiosk such that the inmate may only have an option to begin a video visitation and to end a video visitation. Other options may be only accessible to a warden, guard, and\/or other administrator.","Similarly, the remote computing device  may include a server and\/or other computing device for providing information to the visitor computing device and inmate computing device . In some embodiments, the remote computing device  may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces for scheduling a video visitation, as well as provide a link between the visitor computing device and the inmate computing device to provide the video visitation. In some embodiments the remote computing device  may include authentication logic , scheduling logic , and communication logic for providing services related to video visitations. Similarly, in some embodiments, the remote computing device  may represent a web server that provides access to other sources, such as those for providing data regarding potential clients.","As discussed in more detail below, the remote computing device  may include a memory component  that stores video visitation logic . The video visitation logic  may include the authentication logic , scheduling logic , and communication logic to provide the described functionality. The authentication logic may include software, hardware, and\/or firmware for authenticating users to the video visitation system. As discussed in more detail below, visitors must be registered as a predetermined visitor type, which may be authenticated via the authentication logic . The scheduling logic may include software, hardware, and\/or firmware for scheduling a video visitation. The communication logic may include software, hardware, and\/or firmware for providing user interfaces as well as video conferencing capabilities.","Also included are the warden computing device and the guard computing device . The warden computing device may have administrative privileges to monitor and\/or control video visitations across an entire facility. The warden computing device may have access to user interfaces that provide the desired information. Similarly, the guard computing device may be similarly configured, but have access to a subset of the video visitations that are conducted in a facility. As a guard may have responsibility only over a floor or other area of the facility, the guard computing device may only have access to monitor and\/or control video visitations that occur with inmate computing devices that are within that area.","It should be understood that while the visitor computing device and the remote computing device  are represented in , each as a single component, this is merely an example. In some embodiments, there may be numerous different components that provide the described functionality. More specifically, in some embodiments, the various pieces of logic -may be distributed among a plurality of different computing devices, such as in a local area network. However, for illustration purposes, single components are shown in  and described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["104","102","230","232","234","236","238","238","140","140","102","102"],"i":["a ","a","b","a ","a. "]},"Additionally, the memory component  may store operating logic , and the video visitation logic , which includes the authentication logic , the scheduling logic , and the communication logic . Each of these components may include a plurality of different pieces of logic, each of which may be embodied as a computer program, firmware, and\/or hardware, as an example. A local interface  is also included in  and may be implemented as a bus or other interface to facilitate communication among the components of the remote computing device .","The processor  may include any processing component operable to receive and execute instructions (such as from the data storage component  and\/or the memory component ). The input\/output hardware  may include and\/or be configured to interface with a monitor, positioning system, keyboard, mouse, printer, image capture device (such as still camera and\/or video camera for video conferencing), microphone, speaker, gyroscope, compass, and\/or other device for receiving, sending, and\/or presenting data. The network interface hardware  may include and\/or be configured for communicating with any wired or wireless networking hardware, including an antenna, a modem, LAN port, wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) card, WiMax card, mobile communications hardware, and\/or other hardware for communicating with other networks and\/or devices. From this connection, communication may be facilitated between the visitor computing device and other computing devices.","The operating logic  may include an operating system and\/or other software for managing components of the visitor computing device . Similarly, as discussed above, the video visitation logic  may reside in the memory component  and may be configured to cause the processor  to facilitate authentication, scheduling, conducting, and monitoring of video visitations.","It should be understood that the components illustrated in  are merely exemplary and are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. While the components in  are illustrated as residing within the remote computing device , this is merely an example. In some embodiments, one or more of the components may reside external to the remote computing device . It should also be understood that, while the remote computing device  in  is illustrated as a single device, this is also merely an example. In some embodiments, the various logical components -of the video visitation logic  may reside on one or more different devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","302","304","306","302","302","304","304","304","304","304","306","300"],"i":["a","b","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","400","304","400","402","404","402","404","404","404","404","404","404"],"i":["b","a ","b","c","d","e "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5D","FIG. 4","FIG. 5A"],"b":["500","404","500","500","502","504","506","502","504","506"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5D"],"b":["502","500","512","500","514","500","516","518"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6C","FIG. 6A","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","404","600","602","602","60","604","606","700","608","608","610","612"],"i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7D","FIG. 7A","FIG. 4","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C","FIG. 7D"],"b":["700","700","404","702","702","704","704","700","706","700","708","708","700","710","710","700","712"],"i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8D","FIG. 8A","FIG. 4","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8C","FIG. 8D"],"b":["800","800","404","802","802","804","800","806","800","808","808","800","810"],"i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-9D","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9C","FIG. 9D"],"b":["900","404","900","902","902","904","900","906","908","900","910","900","912"],"i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 5-9"],"b":["1000","1000","1004","1006","1008"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 5-9","FIG. 10"],"b":["1100","1100","1100","1102","1104","1106","1180"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A-12B","FIG. 11","FIGS. 6A-6C","FIG. 12B","FIGS. 6A-6C"],"b":["1200","1200","1102","1100","1202","1202","5","7","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIGS. 13A-13B","FIG. 13A","FIG. 13B"],"b":["1300","1300","1104","1108","1300","1302","1304","1306","1302","1304","1306","1308","1310","1312"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"],"b":["1400","1400","1312","1402","1404","1406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14","FIG. 15"],"b":["1500","1500","1404","1502","1502","1504","1506","1508"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A-16B","FIG. 15"],"b":["1600","1600","1508","1602","1602","1604","1604"]},"Additionally, while not explicitly depicted in , an option for scheduling an in-person visitation may also be provided. This can allow a potential visitor with the ability to register online and then decide whether an in-person visitation or a virtual visitation is desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16A"],"b":["1700","1604","1700","1700","1702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A-18C","FIG. 18B","FIG. 18C"],"b":["1800","1800","1802","1800","1804","1806","1808","1810"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1900","1900","1900"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2000","2000","2002","2004","2006","2008","2010","2002","2002","2004","2006","2008","2010"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2100","2100","2102","102"],"i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2200","2200","2202","2204","2206","2208","2210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIGS. 23A-23F","b":["2300","106","106","2300","2300","2302","2304","2306","2308","2308"],"i":["a ","b "]},"It should be understood that, depending on whether the warden computing device or the guard computing device is accessing the user interface , different information may be provided. As an example, while the warden may have access to all visits via selection of the all visits list option , a guard may only haves access to visits that are on his\/her block. Similarly, in embodiments where an administrator has access to multiple facilities, the options provided in the user interface  may be tailored accordingly.","Also included in the user interface  are an administrator settings portion  and an administrator home page portion . The administrator settings portion  may include an import option, a my account option, a request immediate visit wizard option, a schedule visit wizard, a create content option, an administrator option, and a log out option. The administrator option may include a content management sub-option, a site building-sub option, a reports sub-option a rules sub-option, an advanced help sub-option, and a help sub-option.","In the administrator home page , a task option  and a module option  may be provided. Under the task option , a content management section  and a site building section  may be provided. Under the content management section  are options to manage the site content; backup and migrate data; view, edit, and delete content; and customize output using content templates. Under the site building section  are options to configure block content; create, modify, and delete data tables; and configure feeds.","Referring to  the content management section  may also include options for configuring date tools and calendars; control posting behavior; configure RSS feeds; manage tagging, categorization, and classification of the content; and view and edit available webforms. Under the site building section , the user interface  provides options for enabling and\/or disabling add-on modules; adding, editing, and removing pages from the system, managing the database schema; changing the theme of the site; setting up triggers; changing URL aliases; and changing views. Also provided in the user interface  are a store administration section  and a site configuration section . In , the store administration section  includes options for viewing and processing orders; viewing and modifying customer information and orders; administering products, classes, etc.; creating and editing attributes; and providing help. Included in the site configuration section  are options for managing actions defined in the site; adjusting administration menu settings; changing an administration theme; providing advanced user settings; providing certificate login settings; cleaning URLs; providing content template settings; administering a custom error; and providing settings for date and time; providing configuration settings for date popup configurations.","Also included in the user interface  depicted in  is a user management section . Included in the user management section  are options for user management; providing access rules; and providing options for auto assign a role. Similarly, in , the user management section  includes options for administrating completely animated public turing test to tell computers and humans apart (CAPTCHA); controlling login destinations; providing permissions to users; providing options related to user roles; provide user settings; and options for listing, adding, and editing users. Under the site configuration section  are options for providing devel settings; error reporting; form filtering; frequently asked questions; analytics; and image toolkit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 23E","FIG. 23E"],"b":["2322","2326","2326","2300","2322","2300","2300","2322"]},"Additionally included in the user interface  depicted in  are a short messaging system (SMS) area  and a rules area . The SMS area  includes options for configuring gateway configurations and editing options for SMS users. The rules area  includes an option for proving rules administration links.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23A","FIG. 24"],"b":["2400","2400","2402","2400","2302","2402","2400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 23A"],"b":["2500","2500","2304","2500","2502"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25","FIG. 22","FIG. 22"],"b":["2600","2502","2600","2200","2600","2602","2604","2606","2608","2606","2608","2600","2200","2600","2610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 23A"],"b":["2700","2306","2700","2700","2702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 23A"],"b":["2800","102","2800","2308","2800","2802","102","102"],"i":["b ","b ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 29","b":["2930","2932","2934","2930","2932","2936","2938","2940","2942","2944","2946","2948","2950"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 30","b":["3030","3032","3034","3036","3038","3040","3042","3044","3046","3048","3050","3052"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 21"],"b":["3130","3132","3134","2102","3136"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 32"],"b":["3232","3234","3236","3238","3240","3242","3244","3246"]},"In some embodiments, the supervision may include a human administrator watching (and listening) to the video visitation to ensure that there are not illicit communications. However, in some embodiments, the warden computing device and\/or the guard computing device may include monitoring logic, which may cause the respective computing devices to recognize audio and\/or video associated with an unauthorized conversation. As an example, the monitoring logic may cause the warden computing device to recognize the spoken word \u201cgun.\u201d Similarly, the monitoring logic may cause the warden computing device to recognize a hand signal for a gun. At block , a determination may be made regarding whether the inmate and\/or the visitor are participating in an acceptable activity. If so, at block , a determination may be made regarding whether the video visitation is complete. If so, the process may end. If the video visitation is not complete, the process may return to block  to determine whether the visitor and the inmate are engaged in an acceptable activity. If at block , the visitor and the inmate are not engaged in an acceptable activity, at block , preventative measures may be taken. Preventative measures may include shutting down the video visitation, flagging the visitor and\/or inmate for disciplinary action, etc.","One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture, functionality, and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard, each block can be interpreted to represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and\/or not at all. For example, two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations, merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiment(s) without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. Further, the scope of the present disclosure is intended to cover all combinations and sub-combinations of all elements, features, and aspects discussed above. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION","p":["Many aspects of the disclosure can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present disclosure. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views. While several embodiments are described in connection with these drawings, there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed herein. On the contrary, the intent is to cover all alternatives, modifications, and equivalents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-8D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-9D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A-12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A-13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A-16B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 18A-18C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 23A-23F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 32"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
