---
title: System and method for virtual piggybank
abstract: A method of providing control preferences for a prospective Internet user, the method comprising the steps of establishing a first account, the settings of the first account being stored in a database; establishing a second account, the settings of the second account being stored in the database; linking the first and second accounts such that control settings of the second account are determined through the first account; and making a purchase from the second account consistent with the control settings of the second account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812395&OS=08812395&RS=08812395
owner: Virtual Piggy, Inc.
number: 08812395
owner_city: Hermosa Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110928
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/991,059, which was filed on Nov. 4, 2010 now abandoned, which is a U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT\/US2010\/047794, filed on Sep. 3, 2010, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,233, filed on Sep. 3, 2009. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/991,059 also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,233, U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,235, U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,234, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,232, all of which were filed on Sep. 3, 2009. The entirety of each of the above is incorporated herein by reference.","This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/991,063, which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,235, which was filed on Sep. 3, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.","This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/991,053, which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,233, which was filed on Sep. 3, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.","This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/991,057, which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/272,234, which was filed on Sep. 3, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates an Internet payment system and method, and more particularly to an Internet payment system and method having a variety of customizable controls.","2. Discussion of the Related Art","Using the Internet has become extremely easy, and one aspect of this ease is that children of very young ages are able to gain access to Internet websites of all kinds and make purchases at a variety of websites. Juxtaposed with this ease is the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which lays out specific guidelines for how website operators and online businesses must interact with children  and under. In general COPPA requires parental notification and consent prior to an online operator's collecting, using or disclosing a child's personal information. Compliance with COPPA can be daunting for an online business. While some online businesses are taking steps to comply with COPPA, many of the new media companies including Facebook are choosing to avoid COPPA compliance by restricting their sites to over 13's, and foregoing a significant business opportunity in interacting with the under 13 market segment. In the past, parents were often happy to give their children small amounts of money to buy comics and candy from a corner store, there is no equivalent mechanism currently for the internet. The generation of children growing up today have never known a world where the internet was not present and they expect to be able to play games, interact with friends and make purchases online. There is ever increasing pressure on the parents and guardians to provide more online access to their children, while at the same time a worrying lack of control in the online world.","Parental controls are known and generally fall into two categories: active control and passive control. Active controls (e.g., hardware and software firewalls; and hardware access controls and systems) prevent a child from accessing information over the Internet that a parent does not want them to retrieve and view. Passive controls (e.g., a software audit system) allow a parent to audit the information their children have been accessing and the activities their children have been performing while online. While these active and passive control systems help parents to control the information available to children via the Internet, there are no provisions to control the types of services that children may sign up for and\/or purchase over the Internet.","Currently, parents may either provide their children with a credit card or purchase a pre-paid card so that their children may conduct a monetary transaction on the Internet. While this may work for a few instances, it is not a viable option with the rapid growth of websites, online games and online applications appealing to children and the ever increasing online footprint of children. The credit card is also particularly troubling since it provides no control or limitation on what or how much the child can acquire.","With the rapid proliferation of websites, online games, and online applications for children under 13, there is a need for a system that parents can setup and children can use to conduct online monetary transactions while limiting or obviating a child's need to provide their personal information. Thus, a system is needed that will enable a parent to manage a child's access and personal information provided to websites, or in the alternative provide parental consent to the collection and use of certain necessary information as well as to control how money is spent at the websites by a child.","Accordingly, the present invention is directed to a system and method for a virtual piggybank that substantially obviates one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.","An embodiment of the present invention provides an improved Internet payment method and system.","Another embodiment of the present invention provides an Internet payment method and system that may be used by a child at online websites, games, and applications that have been approved by a parent.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides an Internet payment method and system that enables a parent to manage a child's access to websites and control how money is spent at the websites by a child.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides an Internet payment method and system that may be used by any user at online websites with certain controls and payment procedures.","Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.","To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention, as embodied and broadly described, the system and method for virtual piggybank includes a method of providing control preferences for a prospective Internet user, the method comprising the steps of establishing a first account, the settings of the first account being stored in a database; establishing a second account, the settings of the second account being stored in the database; linking the first and second accounts such that control settings of the second account are determined through the first account; and making a purchase from the second account consistent with the control settings of the second account.","In another aspect, the system and method for virtual piggybank includes a system providing control preferences for a prospective Internet user comprising a server; and a database hosted on the server, the database storing information for a first account and a second account; wherein control settings of the second account are established through the first account such that a purchase from the second account is consistent with the control settings can be made.","In yet another aspect, the system and method for virtual piggybank includes a method of providing control preferences for a prospective Internet user, the method comprising establishing an online account that includes specific control parameters; activating the online account by accessing a web based system designated by the online account; and controlling a user's use of the web based system through the online account.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.","Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.","In the following detailed description, numerous non-limiting specific details are set forth in order to assist in understanding the subject matter presented herein. It will be apparent, however, to one of ordinary skill in the art that various alternatives may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention and the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. For example, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter presented herein can be implemented by any type of user (i.e., not limited to parent and child) and on any type of standalone system or client-server compatible system containing any type of client, network, server, and database elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","110","112","100","104","106","108","110","102","100","100","114","100"]},"Data may be transferred between components on LAN  in packets, i.e., blocks of data that are individually transmitted over LAN . Routers ,  create an expanded network by connecting LAN  to other computer networks, such as the Internet, other LANs or Wide Area Networks (WAN). Routers are hardware devices that may include a conventional processor, memory, and separate I\/O interface for each network to which it connects. Hence, components on the expanded network may share information and services with each other. In order for communications to occur between components of physically connected networks, all components on the expanded network and router that connect them must adhere to a standard protocol. Computer networks connected to the Internet and to other networks typically use TCP\/IP Layering Model Protocol. It should be noted that other internetworking protocols may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["202","204","206","208","210","202","204","206","208","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"As shown in , the virtual piggybank system  includes a virtual piggybank server , parent computer , child computer , and service requester . The virtual piggybank server  may include a persistent software system and service that allow one or more persons responsible for one or more children to establish a controlled money management and payment system for use over the Internet. The adult preferences are stored on a database, and include parental\/guardian preferences and controls for the money management. The system provides an Application Programming Interface (API) that exposes software functions that other websites, web services and Internet enabled desktop applications can use to enforce the adult preferences when children try to purchase items online. The websites, web services and Internet enabled desktop applications partner with the present system (\u201cvirtual piggybank\u201d), and an account is created. Each of the parent computer  and child computer  may be a desktop computer, laptop computer, tablet or portable computer, smartphone, mobile phone, or other portable computing device. Service requester  may include any online application such as websites, online stores, online games, and online applications.","The following description uses as an example a parent as the person desiring to set controls regarding Internet use and a child as being the Internet user who will be controlled. These are only examples, and the invention is not limited to those two classes of people. For example, the following description would be equally applicable to an employer and employee.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"At step , a parent accesses the virtual piggybank system via the Internet to establish a virtual piggybank for a child. For example, the virtual piggybank may be an Internet bank account for use by a child, but the virtual piggybank is not limited to this. In order to establish a virtual piggybank for a child, a parent may first establish a parental account.","At step , a parent may establish a parental account. The virtual piggybank system may guide the parent through the set up of a parental account. To establish a parental account, a parent profile is created. A parent profile allows a parent to provide information that allows the virtual piggybank system to interact with a parent. For example, the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A parent may be able to use an OpenID account to establish a parent profile. However, the virtual piggybank system may request additional information as well, such as a password, name (first, middle and last), address information, verification preference such as e-mail or short message service (SMS) that is used to verify a parental account, primary phone number, mobile phone number that may be used if SMS is selected as a verification preference so that SMS messages may be sent to a mobile phone, a primary e-mail address that may be used if e-mail selected as verification preference, secondary e-mail, password reminder questions, time-zone such that dates and times in the virtual piggybank system are based on this time-zone and not the time-zone of the server, and currency preferences.","The parental account is secure and can only be accessed with the correct user name and password. All data transmissions may be encrypted and secure, such as all profile information. Passwords that may be used by the parent, child or others designated to properly use the system may have expiration dates to insure password strength. After a parental account is established, a parent may then establish one or more child accounts. The settings of a child account may then be controlled by the parental account. For example, the virtual piggybank system may present a number of options from which a parent may choose such that various controls may be imposed on a child by the virtual piggybank.","At step , the virtual piggybank has the parent choose a payment option and\/or billing frequency. For example, charges made to a child account may be applied to a credit card, debit card, other bank account, or may be billed to a parent on a periodic basis. This information also will be secured through encryption and passwords","A parent may establish one or more payment accounts. A payment account is the account that will be used to make payment for purchases made by a child via a child account. For example, a PayPal or Google payment account may be supported by the virtual piggybank system. Of course, the payment account may be any known to those skilled in the art. The parent may provide a User name and password associated with a payment account so that payments from a child account may be charged to the payment account. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication. A parent may provide the following information relating to a payment account: a) payment account name; b) payment account User name and password; c) payment account billing address (e.g., street number, street name, city, state, zip, country); and d) whether to accept outside payments to determine if someone else can fund this account. The last option will be discussed later.","At step  a parental account is created. In addition, one or more child accounts also may be created at this time. Account information, such as a user name, password, or payment information may be stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank server.","To establish a child account, a child profile is created. A child profile may include a User name, password, and payment method, such as a payment account. A child may use the user name and password to conduct transactions on websites, online games and online applications that are approved by a parent through the virtual piggybank system.","Also, a child may add items to a wish-list, and a parent may review and approve items on a child's wish-list. A parent may either buy or remove an item from a child's wish-list. The wish-list may be customized. For examples, items in a wish-list may expire and be removed from the wish-list based on the settings of the wish-list.","Referring to , illustrated is an exemplary preferences add child profile screen according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.","As shown in , the add profile screen  may be divided into several exemplary screen portions -. At screen portion,  a parent may identify a child by name or nickname. Also, a child may be given a child account user name that is associated with a parent account user name.","At screen portion , a parent may authorize service requesters, including websites and other Internet based applications, that a child may visit, from which a child may make purchases, etc. A parent can control whether every service requester needs to be approved by a parent. The parent can also selectively define which service requesters need to be approved while other services may be automatically approved.","At screen portion , a parent may approve transactions from the child account based on a spending amount. A spending limit that limits the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval, or a periodic spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on a periodic basis such as per week, per month, or over any particular time limit. Alternatively, a parent may set a spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on an occasional basis, such as a child's birthday or other holiday. In another alternative, a parent may specify a payment account balance limit such that if the linked payment account balance goes below a specified balance, no additional transactions will be permitted from a child account linked to it.","At screen portion , a parent may designate contributors to a child account. For example, a contributor may be another parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or other adult responsible for a child. At screen portion , a parent may specify that notifications be sent for any information regarding the child account. Notifications may be sent by e-mail, SMS, voicemail, or the like. In addition, a parent may specify that notifications be sent to a contributor. At screen portion , a parent may authorize certain service requesters for use by a child.","Referring back to , at step , the virtual piggybank system may allow the parent to designate one or more contributors to a child account. A contributor may be a person other than a parent who may add money into the virtual piggybank. For example, a grandparent, uncle, aunt, or other close family member may be designated as a contributor. The virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a contributor. For example, a parent may designate a money limit that a contributor may add to a child account. Such a money limit may be determined by the total amount of money that is presently available to a child in a child account. Alternatively, a money limit may be applied per contributor. In addition, a parent may limit the frequency with which a contributor may add money to a child account.","For example, a parent may designate a person as a contributor by providing that person's name and e-mail address to the virtual piggybank system. The virtual piggybank system may send an e-mail along with an authentication code and a link to a contributor. This link may not expire so that a contributor person can bookmark this page to send repeatedly money when he\/she wants. A contributor may then go to the link in the e-mail, enter the code, the validity of which is then determined, and if the code is valid then a contributor may be presented with a form that will allow them to enter their credit card information or payment account information, such as a PayPal or Google account.","At step , the virtual piggybank may allow a parent to setup a child profile. The virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a child by setting up a child profile. A child profile may include a list of approved websites (i.e., Service Requester of ) where a child is authorized to spend money from a child account, a spending limit that limits the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval, or a periodic spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on a periodic basis such as per week, per month, or over any particular time limit. Alternatively, a parent may set a spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on an occasional basis, such as a child's birthday or other holiday. In another alternative, a parent may specify a payment account balance limit such that if the linked payment account balance goes below a specified balance, no additional transactions will be permitted from a child account linked to it.","In addition, the virtual piggybank also may allow a parent to specify a time period during which a child may spend money from a child account. For example, a time period may be certain hours of the day, certain days of the week, or any period so desired.","At step , the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to setup specific notifications. Notifications may be sent by e-mail, SMS, voicemail, or the like. Such notifications may include any information regarding the account, such as funds, usage, etc. For example, a parent or contributor may receive notifications concerning the amount of money available to a child or recent purchases of a child, if more than a certain number of transactions are carried out at a particular merchant or by a child over the course of a day, if suspicious behavior occurs (such as a number of unsuccessful login attempts or simultaneous login attempts were made). In another example, a parent or contributor may receive a notification requesting approval of a particular transaction of the child account. In this example, a reply SMS message or e-mail may be sent by a parent or contributor to approve a transaction. Alternatively, the virtual piggybank system may provide one or more links that may be clicked upon to approve or decline a particular transaction. If a notification is provided by phone, a request for approval may be requested after the recital of an automated message, and approval may be solicited through key selection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"At step , a parent accesses the virtual piggybank system and selects an option to change the Authorized Contributor Setup. As discussed above, a contributor may be a person other than a parent who may add money into a child account of the virtual piggybank system. The virtual piggybank system may allow the parent to designate one or more contributors to a child account.","At step , a parent enters profile information for a contributor that that will be authorized by a parent to contribute funds to a child's account in the virtual piggybank. The profile information may include the contributor's name, address, email address, and any other information that will uniquely identify the contributor.","At step , the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a contributor. A parent is presented with a variety of controls that may be applied to a contributor regarding contributions that may be made to a child account. For example, a parent may designate a money limit that limits the amount of money a contributor may add to a child account. Such a money limit may be determined by the total amount of money that is presently available to a child account. Alternatively, a money limit may be applied per contributor. In addition, a parent may limit the frequency with which a contributor may add money to a child account.","At step , the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to set specific notifications to be sent to a contributor. Such notifications may include any information regarding a child account, such as funds, usage, etc.","At step , profile information for a contributor is stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank system. Account information such as a user name, password, or payment information, and notification sending information may be stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank system.","At step , a parent then selects a notification mechanism that the virtual bank sends to the contributor. For example, a notification may be sent by e-mail, SMS, or voicemail. Of course, notifications also may be sent to a parent.","At step , a parent is given the option of adding additional contributors. If a parent desires to add an additional contributor, a parent again enters profile information for a contributor at step , and again proceeds through the steps outlined above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["601","602","603","604","605","602","603","604","606","607","608","609","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["701","702"]},"A parent may view a spending report by logging into the virtual piggybank system. A spending report may be an onscreen report that a parent can print or e-mail if desired. A spending report is customizable, and may show any combination of transaction dates, transaction amounts, service requesters, daily, weekly and monthly sub-totals. For example, a spending report may be generated for a particular service requester.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"At step , a child accesses an Internet website and selects an item for purchase. Here, the virtual piggybank system may first determine whether a parent has allowed a child to access the website that the child is attempting to access. If a child is allowed to access the website, a child may then enjoy the website's content. Otherwise, a child may be redirected to an alternate website.","At step , the website (i.e., Service Requester) makes a request to the virtual piggybank system. The request package contains all the required information necessary to identify the child attempting to make a purchase to the virtual piggybank system plus all the information about the proposed transaction.","A service requester may establish a merchant account with the virtual piggybank system. A merchant account allows a service requester to provide information to the virtual piggybank system to contact the service requester. For example, the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A service requester may use their OpenID account to setup a merchant account. In addition, a service requester may establish a payment acceptance account. This account will be used to accept payment. For example, a service requester may use PayPal or a Google account linked with a bank account associated with the service requester. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication.","At step , the virtual piggybank system examines the request. In particular, the request is checked against a child profile to determine whether a transaction is allowed or not. A child profile includes information necessary to determine whether a transaction is allowed. For example, a child profile may include a list of approved websites where a child is authorized to spend money from a child account, a spending limit limiting the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval, or a periodic spending limit limiting the amount of money a child can spend per week or per month, or over any particular time limit. In addition, the virtual piggybank also may allow a parent to specify a time period during which a child may spend money from a child account.","The virtual bank notifies the service requester whether the transaction is approved or not at steps  and , respectively. At the same time, if the transaction is approved, the virtual piggybank system may determine whether further approvals and\/or notifications are required at step . It notifications are required, the required notification is sent to a parent or contributor, as appropriate, at step . Similarly, if a further approval is required, a seeking approval message is sent to a parent or contributor, as appropriate, at step . For example, an e-mail or SMS containing a seeking approval message may be sent to a parent or contributor. A parent or contributor may approve the pending transaction in a variety of ways such as reply SMS message, return e-mail, or by logging onto a parental or contributor account.","Thus, when a child logs onto the Internet and attempts to make a purchase at a Service Requester site that was previously designated as controlled by the virtual piggybank, the Service Requester bank makes a web service call to the virtual piggybank. The virtual piggybank exposes the preferences that were established by an adult, as described above, to the Service Requester. The preferences may be exposed to the service requester via an application programming interface through a web service, which may be a software system designed to support interoperable machine-to-machine interaction over the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"As shown in , a child user of a child account may access a service requester, such as a restaurant or food delivery system, at step . In this example, the service requester may obtain child account identifying information and present the child account information to the virtual piggybank system at step . Once the method for implementing the child spending functionality of virtual piggybank, as shown in , is performed and the service requester approved, a purchase from the service requester may be made. The virtual piggybank system then ensures that the service requester is paid for the selected service or item, at step . Accordingly, the service requester may then provide the purchased service or item, as shown in step .","As discussed above, a service requester may establish a merchant account with the virtual piggybank system. A merchant account allows a service requester to provide information to the virtual piggybank system to contact the service requester. For example, the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A service requester may use their OpenID account to setup a merchant account. In addition, a service requester may establish a payment acceptance account. This account will be used to accept payment. For example, a service requester may use PayPal or a Google account linked with a bank account associated with the service requester. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication.","The virtual piggybank system may generate revenues by charging service requesters a fee per transaction. For example, the virtual piggybank system may use a payment account, such as a PayPal or Google account, as a payment network. The payment account may charge its standard rate (on average 2.9%+0.30 USD per transaction) in additional to the virtual piggybank rate.","It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the system and method for virtual piggybank of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents."],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
