---
title: Personalized content layout
abstract: A method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface is provided. The method may comprise providing a content layout framework, monitoring and storing usage data over time of a content fragment, displayed in the content layout framework, promoting or demoting the content fragment in respect to its presentation within the content layout framework based on a first value of a first parameter of the parameter model, wherein the promotion or demotion uses an abrasion factor, such that a content fragment appearance degrades or increases from session to session of usage of the content layout framework depending on a predefined function deployed to the first value of the first parameter of the parameter model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514553&OS=09514553&RS=09514553
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09514553
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110920
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a utility application claiming priority to co-pending German Patent Application No. EP10182279, filed Sep. 29, 2010 entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERSONALIZED CONTENT LAYOUT,\u201d the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.","The invention relates generally to a method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface as well as to a graphical interaction system. The invention relates further to a computer system, a data processing program, and a computer program product.","Today, information or accessible resources like programs or services are often organized using Web technologies like portals and hyperlinks. Typically, portals use templates for displaying information of other functions like sub-program calls. The available functions, programs and information are displayed at specific fields or places within the template.","When (Web) applications are visited by users in a portal, the applications are usually presented in a similar fashion to all users accessing them. But of course, not every user is interested in the same content or the same services, and hence, the overall structure\/layout may satisfy the needs of one user more than others.","Personalized application user interfaces take single users interests and preferences into consideration. Based on various metrics, such as user profile data, user interaction behavior, and so on, user models may be derived that reflect interests and preferences.","Additionally, contextual data, like current location, current date or time of access, may be taken into consideration as interests usually vary in different situations. User and context model data can finally be leveraged to realize a personalized adaptive user interface wherein the user interface presents information fragments or application being of interest and where information fragments or applications being of little interest will not be displayed or less prominent.","For example, in an e-learning system, a historic behavior of a user could be used to visualize the user what has not yet been learned. In such scenarios, lections or units not yet accessed and thus not learnt may be presented while those, already finished, may not be presented in the portal.","According to one embodiment, an aspect of the invention relates to a method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface is provided. The method comprises: providing a content layout framework, monitoring and storing usage data over time of a content fragment, displayed in the content layout framework using a parameter model, and changing a visual appearance of the content fragment in respect to its presentation within the content layout framework based on a first value of a first parameter of the parameter model, wherein the change to the visual appearance of the content fragment may use an abrasion factor, such that a content fragment appearance may change from session to session of usage of the content layout framework depending on a predefined function deployed to the first value of the first parameter of the parameter model.","According to another embodiment, an aspect of the invention relates to a computer program product for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface. The computer program product comprises a computer-readable persistent storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code comprises computer readable program code configured to provide a content layout framework, to monitor and store usage data over time of a content fragment, displayed in the content layout framework using a parameter model, and to change a visual appearance of the content fragment in respect to its presentation within the content layout framework based on a first value of a first parameter of the parameter model. Wherein the computer readable program code that is configured to change the visual appearance of the content fragment uses an abrasion factor, such that a content fragment appearance changes from session to session of usage of the content layout framework, depending on a predefined function, deployed to the first value of the first parameter of the parameter model.","According to another embodiment, an aspect of the invention relates to an apparatus comprising memory storing computer-readable program code, and a processor in communication with the memory to access the computer-readable program code. The processor executes the computer-readable program code to provide a content layout framework, monitor and store in the memory usage data over time of a content fragment displayed in the content layout framework using a parameter model, and change a visual appearance of the content fragment in respect to its presentation within the content layout framework based on a first value of a first parameter of the parameter model. Wherein the processor uses an abrasion factor to determine the change of the visual appearance, such that a content fragment appearance changes from session to session of usage of the content layout framework depending on a predefined function deployed to the first value of the first parameter of the parameter model.","The promotion or demotion of content fragments may comprise an adaptation of color, font, font size, saturation or de-saturation, blinking effects accompanying sound effects, spacing effects between letters of terms representing the content fragments. In particular, the promotion and demotion comprises clearly more than just a simple on\/off of a content fragment. Additionally, the promotion and demotion may have a clear direction from session to session, e.g., degrading\/decreasing or increasing\/intensifying, such that there may be a visible linkage between appearances of content fragments between sessions, if the same device in the same context, the same time and the same location may be used. Thus, the promotion or demotion is not only dependent on one simple value of a parameter, but may be dependent from a whole range of different values of the parameter model.","In the context of this application the following expression conventions have been followed:","Content layout framework\u2014A content layout framework may denote an abstract framework, e.g., in a portal with access to information or applications via Internet mechanisms. An alternative term may be a display template. Each displayed component may have a default location in the template or framework. In particular, a content layout framework may be personalized. This means that icons and locations thereof in the template may be different from user to user. Also, more than one template may be used during a session. While the framework for the same device may have an identical appearance for a larger group of users, a display of icons or content fragments may be individualized, e.g., based on an historic behavior or usage by a user.","Content fragment\u2014A content fragment may denote an icon displayed within the content layout framework or display template. It may give a user access to resources available in a computer network like the Internet or an internal enterprise network. That may include access to applications, information like text documents, hyperlinks to other documents, pictures, videos, music and any mixture thereof. Basically, content fragment may denote anything that is displayable in a template of a portal of a computer system, smartphone or the like.","Behavior pattern\u2014A behavior pattern typically stored in a pattern model as usage values may denote a history of content fragments used. When was it used, from which device was it used, how often was it used, etc? Other parameters may also be used as part of the behavior or parameter model.","Session\u2014A session may denote a communication session, i.e., a semi-permanent interactive information exchange between communicating devices that is established at a certain time and torn down at a later time. A Web or HTTP session involves typically a Web and\/or portal server.","Promoting a content fragment\u2014The terms \u2018promoting\u2019 may denote a raise of attention achieved by visual effects. Such visual effect may include larger fonts, colors, background colors, blinking effects, size, spacing between letters, font size of different letters, accompanying sound effects, movie-like changes of the representing icon and other visual elements that highlight a term or content fragment on a computer screen. Consequently, a demotion may denote decreasing the visual appearance of a content fragment.","Abrasion factor\u2014An abrasion factor may denote a factor influencing an appearance of a key word, a content fragment or other displayable icons in a portal. If, e.g., the abrasion factor may be \u201c1\u201d, the content fragment to be displayed may be displayed without any additional effects. If the factor may be below \u201c1\u201d, the content fragment to be displayed may be demoted, meaning that the content fragment may be displayed suboptimal. If the factor may be above \u201c1\u201d, the content fragment to be displayed may be displayed more predominant for a better visibility and recognizability.","The above-described method for interactive visualization of an user interest model via an interactive graphical user interface and the associated graphical interaction system may offer some advantages. One of the advantages may be in a personalized user interface. Depending on the abrasion factor, specific content fragments may be displayed either better or less good visible. That may be achieved by, e.g., optical whitening a content fragment to be displayed from session to session if a user does not make use of the content fragment. If, however, a monitoring of the usage of a content fragment may show that it may have been used more often than other content fragments, then its visibility may be increased. This may be done by a display characteristic based on color, font, font size, saturation, background color, blinking, frequency of blinking, color change of individual letters, etc., as already mentioned above. However, it should be highlighted that the mechanism of an abrasion factor may lead to a much higher flexibility in the design of an individual or personalized user interface than a simple turning on or off, i.e., displaying or not displaying of a content fragment in a portal.","Additionally, the parameter model may be filled with values by other traditional applications, and the values of the parameter model may also be transmitted to other traditional applications triggering specific functions in those applications.","In on embodiment of the method, the predetermined function may be a linear function depending on the devolution of the first values of the first parameter of the parameter model. This may have the consequence that over time, a content fragment may disappear over time from the content layout framework, i.e., it may not be displayed any longer. However, this is not an abrupt process. If usage parameters of a content fragment indicate that they may not have been used during the last sessions, the linear function of usage value may be extrapolated below a \u201czero line\u201d and, thus, the corresponding content fragment may no longer be displayed as part of the content layout framework in a portal. Other function types may be used, e.g., quadratic, logarithmic, exponential, or any other types of functions.","In another embodiment of the method, a content fragment, which may have visually disappeared from the content layout framework, may appear in a framework box for invisible fragments. Another name for the framework box may be \u201cmagic box\u201d, which may be called using a pop-up function of a portal, such that the non-displayed content fragment may still be visible and not getting lost completely.","In another embodiment of the method, the content fragment that appears in the framework box may be restorable for appearing in the content layout framework. This way, hidden and no longer displayed content fragments may be recoverable or at least still visible for a user. However, it takes more effort to a user to make these content fragments visible again. A special function may also restore the content fragment as part of the content layout framework.","In an advanced embodiment of the method, a reset function may reset all values of all parameters for an equal presentation weighting of all content fragments in the content layout framework. In this case, no promoting or demoting of content fragments may be visible in the content layout framework.","In again another embodiment of the method, backup copies of the parameter model values are stored in different versions depending on predefined time intervals. This may allow to restore a parameter value setting from some time ago, e.g., from a day before, last week, last month, etc. If a user determines that the system might have misinterpreted his usage of the system, he may refer back to an older version of parameter values, resulting in a historic promotion or demotion of content fragments and continue with it.","In just another embodiment of the method, the parameter model, with respect to the content fragment, comprises at least a second parameter representing one out of the group, comprising time of usage, day in a week of usage, device used and location of usage. This allows even more flexibility of the personalization of a user interface. In particular, a series of additional parameters may be made available as part of the parameter model. Specific devices, on which the content layout framework may be displayed, may require different abrasion factors for an identical content fragment. In case of a contact list, specific names and phone numbers may be promoted or demoted differently on a smartphone compared to a stationary office computer or a portable media system, because the usage of contact names may be different if a user is traveling or in his office.","Also, the names in a contact list may be of different interest to a user during different times of a day. During normal office hours, business contacts may be more interesting, while during off-work hours private contacts may be more interesting. The same applies to the weekend days during the course of the week. Consequently, a series of parameter values of the parameter model may in a combination determine the final appearance of a contend fragment in the template.","There may also be an embodiment wherein the method comprises additionally providing a programming interface to the parameter model. This feature offers the mechanism of an abrasion factor to other applications like traditional transactional applications, e-learning applications, contact applications, social media applications, content management applications, etc.","In particular, the values of the parameter model may be influenced, e.g., filled, amended or completed. The values of the parameters of the parameter model may also be fed into the applications to trigger application functions that may otherwise have required manual intervention, like a reconfiguration or personalization of a user interface of a transactional application like, e.g., a customer relationship management application.","In again another embodiment of the method, the promotion or demotion may be calculated by an abrasion calculation component, wherein the calculation is a function of values of the parameter model and a device type that displays the content layout framework. Such an abrasion calculation component may have stored functions for a specific abrasion mechanism and it may make reference to a user model, a context model, a device model, and a content model resulting in a very high degree of personalization options.","Furthermore, a computer or computer system may comprise a graphical interaction system as just described and referring to the method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface.","It should be noted that embodiments may take the form of an entire hardware implementation, an entire software embodiment or an embodiment containing both, hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment, the invention is implemented in software which includes, but is not limited to, firmware, resident software and microcode.","In one embodiment, a data processing program for execution in a data processing system is provided comprising software code portions for performing the method as described above when the program is run on a data processing system. The data processing system may be a computer or computer system.","In the following, a detailed description of the drawings will be given. All illustrations in the drawings are schematic. Firstly, a block diagram of the inventive method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface will be described. Afterwards, embodiments of a method and appearances of embodiments of the method for creating a personalized content layout for a user interface will be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","206","208","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","202","302","304","306","308","310","304","306","304","306","304","306","308","310","304","306","308","301"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","404","408","200","410","410","410","410","404","406","408","404","402"]},"This shows that a promotion or demotion of a content fragment may have different meanings depending on the application context.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","504","506","508","514","516","512","518","510","510","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","604"]},"The following parameter model or data model of table 1 may be useful. Per line it may have the fields contentID (ID=identification), userID, deviceID, contextID, content title and utilization. The contentID may be a simple numerical key; the userID may denote the user for whom the information is collected by a usage tracking component; the deviceID may be an identifier for a device from which a content fragment may have been called; the contextID may denote circumstances like time or day of the week, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"Utilization"]},{"entry":["ContentID","UserID","DeviceID","ContextID","Content title","(clicks)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["0","andreas","1","1","Allan, Ben","12\u2002"]},{"entry":["1","andreas","1","2","Allan, Ben","3"]},{"entry":["2","andreas","2","3","Allan, Ben","8"]},{"entry":["3","andreas","1","1","Ernesto, Brain","2"]},{"entry":["4","andreas","1","2","Ernesto, Brain","11\u2002"]},{"entry":["5","andreas","2","3","Ernesto, Brain","7"]},{"entry":["6","andreas","1","1","Gregory, Paul","9"]},{"entry":["7","andreas","1","2","Gregory, Paul","4"]},{"entry":[". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . .",". . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Specific values may also be stored in another table for different users, identifiable by the userID.","Further information regarding the deviceID may be stored in the following way:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["DeviceID","Type","OS","Screen size","Color depth",". . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","desktop","WIN 7","800 \u00d7 600","16Mio.",{}]},{"entry":["2","mobile","iPhone","480 \u00d7 240","65k"]},{"entry":". . ."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In this embodiment, a device number, a device type, an operating system (OS) a screen size and a color depth may be stored. Other device info may also be stored, e.g., a browser type and version. In the above case, two types of devices may be described: a desktop device and a mobile device with different characteristics as can be seen in table 2.","Moreover, also the context may be described in a similar fashion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ContextID","Title","IP","Day of week","Time",". . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","work","9.16.21.17","Mon-Fri","8 am-6 pm",{}]},{"entry":["2","private","167.12.31.3","Mon-Sun","6 pm-10 pm"]},{"entry":["3","traveling","89.21.2.3","Mon-Fri","8 am-6 pm"]},{"entry":". . ."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Additionally, beside the context, an information title, an IP address, day of week, time, and other parameters like GPS coordinates may also be listed. All of these parameter values are collected by the usage tracking component for every click a user does on an icon or content fragment on a display in a template of a portal. Thus, a complete \u201cclick-history\u201d including environmental parameter values is available for an abrasion calculation component.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["702","704","706","708","710","712","714","716","718","720","722"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","804","806","808","810","812","814","816","818"]},"In order to allow an interaction with other applications, like contact list applications, customer relationship management systems, e-learning systems, electronic content management systems and the like, specific components may need to be available.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6"],"b":["926","924","906","908","918","910","912","914","916","920","922"]},"Moreover, an API  to the portal engine with the specifics as just described, allow a parameter value exchange with other applications . This way a much more intuitive, individual and personalized user interface for any application may be realized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1002","1004","1006","1008"]},"Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer, regardless of the platform being used suitable for storing and\/or executing program code. For example, as shown in , a computer system  may include one or more processor(s)  with one or more cores per processor, associated memory elements , an internal storage device  (e.g., a hard disk, an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk (DVD) drive, a flash memory stick, etc.), and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today's computers (not shown). The memory elements  may include a main memory, employed during actual execution of the program code, and a cache memory, which provides temporary storage of at least some program code or data in order to reduce the number of times, code must be retrieved from external bulk storage  for an execution. Elements inside the computer  may be linked together by means of a bus system  with corresponding adapters.","The computer system  may also include input means, such as a keyboard , a mouse , or a microphone (not shown). Furthermore, the computer , may include output means, such as a monitor  [e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD), a plasma display, a light emitting diode display (LED), or cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor]. The monitor may be driven by the graphical interaction system , having a displaying unit . The graphical interaction system , the displaying unit  and the monitor  may be combined in one unit. The computer system  may be connected to a network (e.g., a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), such as the Internet, or any other similar type of network, including wireless networks via a network interface connection . This may allow a coupling to other computer systems. Those, skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist, and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally, the computer system  may include at least the minimal processing, input and\/or output means, necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.","Further, those, skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system  may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further, embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes, where each portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention, the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively, the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and\/or resources or a smartphone.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc., or any suitable combination of the foregoing.","Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","While the invention has been shown and described with reference to specific embodiments, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","It should also be noted that the term \u201ccomprising\u201d does not exclude other elements or steps and \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d does not exclude a plurality. Also, elements described in association with different embodiments may be combined."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and further advantages of this invention may be better understood by referring to the following description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like numerals indicate like structural elements and features in various figures. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
