---
title: Direct current multi-stage motor
abstract: A three phase brushless direct current multi-stage motor, that is of the pancake type. The direct current multi-stage motor comprises a continuous and additive magnetic flux field loop with a plurality of flux paths that flow across the vertically wound stators sandwiched between the rotors. The rotors are embedded with a plurality of permanent magnets which are alternately spaced near the outer radius.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536747&OS=08536747&RS=08536747
owner: 
number: 08536747
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120626
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE ART","SUMMARY","ADVANTAGES","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","OPERATION"],"p":["This application is a Continuation-in-Part of Ser. No. 12\/930,284, filed Jan. 3, 2011 by the present inventor, which is incorporated by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0003","num":"0002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Reference Cited"},{"entry":"U.S. Pat. Documents"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"12\/930,284","Jan. 03, 2011","Baggett"]},{"entry":[{},"7,815,535","Oct. 19, 2010","Xiaolan, Sertell"]},{"entry":[{},"7,514,833","Apr. 07, 2009","Hsu, McKeever"]},{"entry":[{},"6,922,004","Jun. 26, 2005","Hashimoto, Zhou,"]},{"entry":[{},"5,334,899","Aug. 02, 1994","Skybyk"]},{"entry":[{},"5,229,677","Jul. 20, 1993","Dade, Leiding"]},{"entry":[{},"5,127,485","Jul. 07, 1992","Wakuta, Hotta"]},{"entry":[{},"5,117,141","May 26, 1992","Hawsey, Bailey"]},{"entry":[{},"RE33,628","Jun. 02, 1991","Hahn"]},{"entry":[{},"4,633,149","Dec. 30, 1986","Welterlin"]},{"entry":[{},"4,568,862","Feb. 04, 1986","Tassinario"]},{"entry":[{},"4,551,645","Nov. 05, 1985","Takashi, Ogawa"]},{"entry":[{},"4,358,693","Nov. 09, 1982","Palmer"]},{"entry":[{},"4,330,727","May 18, 1982","Oudet"]},{"entry":[{},"3,891,905","Jun. 04, 1975","Muller"]},{"entry":[{},"3,599,050","Aug. 01, 1971","Komatsu"]},{"entry":[{},"1,858,506","May 17, 1932","Jacobs"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMNETS"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"DE","4412898","A1","October 1995"]},{"entry":[{},"EP","0388207","A2","September 1990"]},{"entry":[{},"JP","07147753","A","June 1995"]},{"entry":[{},"WO","WO 03\/078863",{},"September 2003"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Nonapplicable","This invention relates to electric motors, particularly multi-rotor, multi-stator of the pancake family. Electric motors have been the mainstay of our way of life for over a hundred years and I suspect that they will be here for many more. Electric motors are manufactured in more ways, shapes, and sizes than one can imagine. However there must be improvements to the over-all efficiency of the electric motor before it can compete with the challenges of our dwindling natural resources. The electric motor in its best design set the stage for 746 watts per horsepower.","The force tending to move a conductor across the magnetic field is (F=Bli) in Newtons. Where B is measured in Webbers per meter, length is measured in meters, and current is measured in amperes. Let us suppose that if B can be increased by 10, then F must increase by 10. The formula for uncoupled inductors in series is (L=L+L+L+ . . . ). The effective inductance of two in-phase series-connected inductances is determined by using the formula (L=L+L+2M). This can be accomplished by placing the magnetic field in series in a continuous loop. There is a need for lighter, more powerful and more efficient electric machines that can be adaptable to many applications.","The preferred embodiment of this machine is a variable speed, reversible torque, brushless motor with a rotating continuous loop magnetic flux field that flows axially across the stationary vertical wound stators. The magnetic flux travels from end to end on a multiple of paths crossing the conductor windings of the stator forming a continuous and compounded magnetic loop.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["1. Light weight","2. Efficiency increases with an increase of radial size","3. No eddy current loss and no iron loss from heat","4. No cogging","5. High torque constant"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","10","30","31","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["10","21","30","31","30","34","30","30","30","33","34"]},"The inner rotors  consist of two identical circular sheets of 6061 T-6 aluminum, and with recessed pockets  machine into each half to provide a means to hold the magnets  in place.  is an exploded view of an inner rotor assembly.","The rotor assembly  is assembled by inserting the magnets  into the recessed pockets  in rotor half ; starting at the recessed hole directly above the keyway   and install the first magnet  with the North Pole facing down. The remainder of the magnets can be placed in clockwise or counter-clockwise direction alternating the magnet poles and continue the same pattern for all rotors. A magnetic pole detector or equivalent tool must be used to insure that the magnetic poles are properly placed with the correct polarization.","The next step is to attach the second half of the rotor to the first half with the keyway aligned with the first half. The next step is to align the keyways of the rotor with the rotor hub   and attach to the rotor hub  with screws . The magnetic field should be checked with a magnet pole detector to insure the correct polarization before attaching the rotor hub  and installing on motor shaft .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["30","30","34","34"]},"Referring to ,  and ; the end rotor assembly  comprises one rotor hub  and one magnet support circular sheet  and a plurality of magnets  and magnetic transfer plates . The back side of the end rotor  has been milled to accept the magnets  and magnetic transfer plates  (see ). The assembly order of the end rotor magnets will be the same as the inner rotors  with the exception of placing the magnets  to the magnetic transfer plates ;  and then inserting the assembly into the milled recesses (magnets first) and securing with screws ","When the end rotors are facing each other (with the keyways aligned) and with the magnetic transfer plates  on the outside, the magnetic transfer plates will be off-set to insure a continuous flux flow across the stators . One embodiment of this machine has a sixty degree off-set in the plates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["40","44","42","30","31"]},"Referring back to , the stators are machined from a single piece of non-magnetic, non-metal material with machined grooves to secure the windings and then covered with a non-metal, non-magnetic plate .  is one view of a coil winding pattern.  is an exploded view of a sensor plate  with a plurality of sensors  attached with sensor nuts . Referring back to , , and , the small pins attached to the magnetic transfer plates , were incorporated to narrow the sensor on time as the magnetic transfer plates rotated beneath the sensor plat as seen in .","Referring back to ; is two motor bearing plates and the stator support assembly  with stator support assembly nuts . The motor bearings are illustrated on .","The preferred embodiment of this machine is a brushless multi-rotor, multi-stator, direct current electric motor with an axial magnetic flux flow. The magnetic flux is provided by permanent magnets embedded near the outer radius of the rotors. The end rotors have magnetic transfer plates that connect the magnet poles to each other.","The magnetic transfer plates receive the flux and redirect it back through the motor across the stators sandwiched between the pancake type rotors. The magnetic transfer plates and the embedded magnets in the rotors form a continuous and compounded magnetic flux field with a plurality of paths across the energized conductors in the stators.","Beginning at the 12 O'clock position, the flux leaves the end rotor and crosses the stators and inner rotors until it reaches the opposite end rotor and travels 60 degrees in a counter-clockwise direction through the magnetic transfer plate reaching the 10 O'clock position at the next magnet and is redirected back through the motor until it reaches the end rotor completing its first loop and still traveling in a counter-clockwise direction until it reaches another magnet at the 8 O'clock position and is redirected back through the motor for two more loops until it reaches its beginning point.","One embodiment of this machine is commutated electronically with magnetic sensors. One embodiment of this machine has three magnetic transfer plates on the outside of each end rotor that provides a total of six continuous flux fields across the three stator windings connected in series in an axial fashion with the flux path. The last winding in the flux path is connected to the next row of winding 120 degrees counter-clock wise. The windings in the next row are also connected in series and again connected to the third and last row of windings. The windings are wrapped with a soft magnetic material to increase the flux density.","When using only three sensors, one leg of the windings can be connected to positive voltage, the order is 1-4-7, 2-5-8, 3-6-9. When using six sensors and reversing the current every 20 degrees, the order is 147 forward, 369 reverse, 258 forward, 147 reverse, 369 forward, 258 reverse. One embodiment of this machine uses three MOSFET transistors when not reversing the current in the windings; and, three H-Bridge type controllers or equivalent drivers are used when reversing the current. One test used MOSFET chips to reverse the current.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0040"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"No Load Test Results on Machine 10"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RPM","VOLTAGE","AMPERES","WATTS"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"422","6.08",".197","1.198"]},{"entry":[{},"1026","11.3",".475","5.367"]},{"entry":[{},"1340","22.0",".397","8.734"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0041"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"LASCO fan model #3733 specifications as per sales Rep."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RPM","VOLTAGE","CFM","WATTS"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"720","110","1180","56"]},{"entry":[{},"870","110","1475","69"]},{"entry":[{},"1010","110","1710","83"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0042"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Test Results of Machine 10 Under a Load"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RPM","VOLTAGE","AMPS","WATTS"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"620","10.6","1.04","11.24"]},{"entry":[{},"713","13.4","1.90","25.46"]},{"entry":[{},"750","14.0","2.0","28.0"]},{"entry":[{},"775","17.0","1.82","30.9"]},{"entry":[{},"1050","22.1","1.54","34.03"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["FIG. \u2014isometric view of a direct current multi-stage motor","FIG. \u2014side view of a direct current multi-stage motor","FIG. \u2014exploded view of a motor (major components together)","FIG. \u2014exploded view of an end rotor","FIG. \u2014isometric view of an end rotor with sensor pins","FIG. \u2014side view of an end rotor with sensor pins","FIG. \u2014back view of an end rotor with milled recess for magnets and transfer plate","FIG. \u2014exploded view of an inner rotor","FIG. \u2014exploded view of a stator","FIG. \u2014exploded view of a sensor plate",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0023"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"REFERENCE NUMERALS"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"10.","Motor"]},{"entry":[{},"20.","Motor shaft"]},{"entry":[{},"20a.","Motor end plate"]},{"entry":[{},"20b.","Motor bearings"]},{"entry":[{},"21.","Motor shaft keyway"]},{"entry":[{},"22.","Motor shaft key"]},{"entry":[{},"30.","End rotor assembly"]},{"entry":[{},"31a.","Inner rotor half"]},{"entry":[{},"31b.","Inner rotor half"]},{"entry":[{},"32.","Magnet"]},{"entry":[{},"33.","Recessed pockets"]},{"entry":[{},"34.","Magnetic transfer plate"]},{"entry":[{},"34a.","Magnetic transfer plate pins"]},{"entry":[{},"34b.","Magnetic transfer plat"]},{"entry":[{},"35.","Rotor keyway"]},{"entry":[{},"36.","Rotor hubs"]},{"entry":[{},"36a.","Rotor hub screws"]},{"entry":[{},"40.","Stator assembly"]},{"entry":[{},"41.","Stator cover"]},{"entry":[{},"42.","Stator support assembly"]},{"entry":[{},"42a.","Stator support assembly nut"]},{"entry":[{},"44.","Stator winding"]},{"entry":[{},"50.","Magnet sensor plate"]},{"entry":[{},"51.","Magnet sensors"]},{"entry":[{},"51a.","Magnet sensors nuts"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
