---
title: Recovery stabilizing pole
abstract: A recovery stabilizing pole includes a tube having a passageway formed therethrough, and a handle pivotally joined to the tube. A fixed claw member and a hinged claw member are joined to a distal end of the tube, the hinged claw member being capable of pivoting with respect to the fixed claw member. One end of a cable is joined to the handle and the other is joined to the hinged jaw member. Increased tension in the cable causes pivoting of the hinged jaw member with respect to the fixed jaw member. Embodiments include an adjustment means at the distal end of the tube for angling the claw members with respect to the tube and different tensioning means for the cable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08783746&OS=08783746&RS=08783746
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08783746
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a device that assists in the removal of an object from the water. More particularly, the present invention relates to a recovery stabilizing pole that assists in stabilizing an underwater vehicle such as a torpedo, so as to attach a snap-ring to the nose of the vehicle, allowing the vehicle to be placed on a recovery vessel.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","During the testing and evaluation phases related to the underwater vehicles, such as vehicles operating in the water, there remains a need to facilitate the retrieval of the vehicle onto a recovery vessel. Currently when the vehicle comes to the surface after its mission, the vehicle floats to the surface and bobs in the water until it can be retrieved. The recovery vessel comes alongside the vehicle, and a person tries to attach a snap-ring with a rope to the nose ring of the vehicle. This attachment effort is time consuming as well as being costly because the recovery vessel can be damaged by the vehicle hitting against it, especially during high sea states. Typically, this problem occurs most often with 21 inch vehicles used typically by the United States Navy; however, it may also occur when utilizing smaller or larger diameter vehicles. There remains a need to provide a device that assists in reducing the time, effort, and damage involved in retrieving a vehicle in the water into a recovery vessel.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a device that would assist in stabilizing a vehicle, so as to attach a snap-ring to the nose of the vehicle and thereby allow the vehicle to be more quickly and more safely placed into the recovery vessel.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a device that can be used in an exigent situation when the vehicle is too close to the recovery vessel, allowing the vehicle to be pushed away from the vessel.","In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a device is provided which allows the retrieval team onboard the recovery vessel to hold onto the nose ring of the vehicle, facilitating the placement of the vehicle into the recovery vessel. The apparatus includes a tubular member having a proximate end, a distal end with a first opening, and a first passageway formed therein. A handle is pivotally connected to near the proximate end of the tubular member. The handle has a second passageway formed therein. One end of the second passageway leads to the first passageway of tubular member. First and second claw members are connected at the distal end of the tubular member. The second claw member is hingedly connected to the first claw member. Each of the first and second claw members has an opening formed therein. The apparatus further includes a tension member connecting the first end of the handle to the second claw member such that movement of the handle causes movement of the second claw member.","Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to , there is illustrated some of the elements and operations, grouped by reference number , involved in the retrieval of a vehicle . The vehicle  has a streamer A, and a nose portion  which, in turn, has a collar  with a retrieval aperture A formed therein. Retrieval aperture A is provided in collar in order to allow for a snap-ring to be placed into the aperture A, while the vehicle  is in the water .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIGS. 2A"],"b":["20","20","20","20","20","22","20","24","26","28","24","2","2"]},"The recovery stabilizing pole  includes an extended tube  having an inner passageway  extending therethrough. Tube  is preferably made from a light weight metal and with a typical length in a range from about eight to nine feet. Tube  can be a solid member not having a passageway  but with external retaining members. Tube  has a proximate end , a distal end , and preferably a grip  positioned on proximate end .","The recovery stabilizing pole  further includes a handle . A grip  is positioned on a distal end of handle . A proximate end of handle  is joined to tube  by a pivot means . Pivot means  allows the handle  to pivot toward the tube  upon the application of pressure to the handle . Pivot means  can include a cam member  and pin , which cooperatively operate to apply tension to a flexible tension member  affixed to handle  at a mounting location . Pin  is optional and serves as a bearing to redirect flexible tension member  through passageway . A proximate aperture  is formed in tube  near the handle mounting means  and communicating with passageway . A distal aperture  communicating with passageway  is formed in distal end  of pole .","Flexible tension member  operatively connects the handle  to the hinged claw member . Flexible tension member or cable  can be any flexible member capable of supporting a tensile load. This can be an aramid fiber, metal cable or the like. Cable  should not stretch significantly when subjected to the planned tensile load and should be corrosion resistant in a marine environment. Preferably, flexible tension member or cable  is made from one quarter inch stainless steel wire rope. The cable  extends from mounting means , around cam , through the proximate aperture  into the passageway  and around pin . Cable  further extends down the passageway  and out of the distal aperture  at the distal end  of the tube . The cable  leaves aperture  and enters an opening  formed in fixed claw member . After passing through opening , cable  is affixed to a mounting location on hinged claw member . As described, a tensile force on cable  causes hinged claw member  to pivot inwardly.","A floatation member  can be affixed to tube . Floatation member  can be a cylindrical member that is dimensioned so as to correspond to the outer diameter of the tube . Floatation member  can be positioned to prevent pole  from sinking if it is inadvertently dropped, or it can be designed to support pole  during use. If floatation member  is designed to support pole during use, it can have an extended floatation structure near the anticipated waterline of recovery stabilizing pole .","The recovery stabilizing pole  can further include adjustment means , to be further described hereinafter with reference to . Adjustment means  provides for the movement of the claw members  and  in a direction reducing  or increasing  the angle between claw members  and  and tube , as shown in , B and C.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["42","40","50","40","30","40","52","40","30","50","52","40","30","52","46","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["42","40","40","66","40","42","52","66","30","50","52","40","30","52","46","50"]},"The recovery stabilizing pole  may be further described with reference to  showing the claw members in an open or non-engaged position A.  illustrates the cable  as exiting opening  and extending to location  on the hinged claw member  where the cable  is affixed thereto by appropriate means, such as by knotting or welding. The recovery stabilizing pole  preferably further comprises an elastomeric strip  connected to the hinged claw member  by means such as screws, or adhesive means A. Elastomeric material for strip  is typically nylon or the like. The strip  operates to protect the vehicle being retrieved from any damage that may be caused by interaction thereof with cable . The hinged claw member  further preferably has a resilient coating , whereas the fixed claw member  has a resilient coating , both coatings  and  being provided, so as to prevent any sliding of the vehicle from the recovery stabilizing pole  in a manner to be further described with reference to . Resilient coatings  and  are preferably natural or artificial rubber. The hinged claw member  is moveable, relative to fixed claw member , by means of a conventional hinge  to be further described hereinafter with reference to . The operation provided in part, by hinge  of the recovery stabilizing pole , may be further described with simultaneous reference to , B, C, ,  and , and with  illustrating a closed or engaged position B.","With reference to , it is apparent that as the handle  is pressed toward the tubular member , the cable , as most clearly seen in , pulls, by the operation of hinge  most clearly shown in , the hinged claw member  toward the fixed claw member , as most clearly seen in , thus providing a closed or engaged position B. The spacing between the hinged claw member  and fixed claw member  in the closed or engaged position B is selected or dimensioned, so as to correspond to the outer diameter of the nose  of the vehicle . The recovery stabilizing pole  may be further described with reference to , which is a side view thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 5"],"b":["3","4","82","82","26","28","82","26","28","64","64","26","28","66","68","66","68","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 5 and 6"],"b":["40","40","30","26","28","70","24"]},"As seen in , unlike , the handle  has been moved, so as to apply pressure to pivotally move the handle  toward the tubular member , thereby causing cable  to pull the moveable hinged claw member  toward the fixed claw member , so as to establish the closed or engaged position B, previously described with reference to . The operation of the recovery stabilizing pole may be further described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["24","70","40","30","24","12","24","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["24","40","30","26","12","12","20","20","22","16","20"]},"In , there is shown an alternate embodiment having an alternate version of elastomeric strip shown as \u2032 and resilient coating \u2032. Elastomeric strip \u2032 is fixed to fixed claw member  at \u2032. Elastomeric strip \u2032 extends toward hinged claw member  to protect cable  from interference with a vehicle being recovered. Resilient coating \u2032 covers less of member  to allow mounting of strip \u2032.","As a variation either or both handle  and tubular member  could be made from a solid material without having a passageway formed therein. In this variation, tabs having eyes therethrough could be attached at periodic places along tubular member  and handle  to serve as guides for cable .","It should now be appreciated that the practice of the present invention provides a recovery stabilizing pole which stabilizes a floating and bobbing vehicle , so as to allow the slip ring (not shown) of the recovery system  to be more easily attached to the nose , in particular aperture A of the vehicle . The present invention reduces the time consumed in the retrieval process of the vehicle  in the water, while at the same time preventing the recovery vessel  from being damaged by the vehicle , especially during high sea state conditions with the vehicle  rapidly bobbing up and down.","It will be understood that many additional changes in details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reference to the following description of the preferred embodiments and to the drawings, wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
