---
title: Earphone-based game controller and health monitor
abstract: Design and operation techniques for an earphone-based game controller and health monitor are described herein. In one example, two “ear bud” style earphones are configured as I/O devices, each including a speaker to output sound and an accelerometer to receive an input of motion imparted by a user. The I/O devices may be connected to a mobile device, such as a cellular phone. Accordingly, the I/O devices may be inserted into a user's ears for listening or may be used as game controllers, such as by moving one I/O device in each hand. In a further example, a thermometer may be used in at least one of the I/O devices, and may gather health data by measuring the temperature of the user. And in a further example, a microphone may be used in at least one I/O device to gather heart rate and respiration-quality data regarding the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08730048&OS=08730048&RS=08730048
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08730048
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Cellular telephones and music-playback devices frequently are sold as a package, including the hand unit (the phone), a charger and earphones. Because earphones are so routinely supplied by manufacturers, they are increasingly used with small mobile devices such as cellular telephones and music players. While \u201cover-the-ear\u201d phones are known, smaller \u201cear bud\u201d earphones are more commonly used. Such stereo earphones may include a 3.5 mm plug (or similar) for attachment to the cell phone.","However, while earphones are quite common, they are also somewhat limited in functionally. As a result, only limited use is made of the earphone jack into which they are connected.","Techniques for the design and operation of an earphone-based game controller and health monitor are described herein. In one example, two \u201cear bud\u201d style earphones are configured as I\/O devices, each including a speaker to output sound and an accelerometer to receive input in the form of motion imparted by a user. The I\/O devices may be connected to a mobile device, such as a cellular phone. Software applications running on the mobile device may provide an output signal to the I\/O devices and receive input data from them. In one example, the I\/O devices may be used as output devices that provide sound that may be heard when the I\/O devices are inserted into a user's ears. Alternatively, the I\/O devices may be used as input devices, such as game controllers, by moving one accelerometer-equipped I\/O device in each hand. In a further example, a thermometer may be used in at least one of the I\/O devices, and may gather health data by measuring a body temperature of the user. And in a still further example, a microphone may be used in at least one I\/O device to gather heart rate and respiration-quality data.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The term \u201ctechniques,\u201d for instance, may refer to device(s), system(s), method(s) and\/or computer-readable instructions as permitted by the context above and throughout the document.","Overview","The disclosure describes examples of the design and operation of an earphone-based game controller and health monitor. In one example, accelerometers in each of two \u201cear bud\u201d style earphones may be separately manipulated. Separate accelerometer data from the two accelerometers is provided to software, such as a video game, operating on a mobile device, such as a cell phone. Additional sensors in one or both earphones, such as a thermometer, a microphone and others, allow the ear buds to obtain health data from a user. For example, sensors in the ear buds may allow tracking of the user's body temperature, heart rate, respiration rate, respiration effectiveness (e.g., congestion, coughing, wheezing, etc.) and other factors. Additionally, the earphone-based game controller and health monitor may protect the user from other dangers, such as by reporting the user falling (especially among the elderly) or reporting the approach of a car (especially among those jogging and listening to music).","The discussion herein includes several sections. Each section is intended as an example, and not to indicate limitations to the use of the techniques discussed. More particularly, this entire description is intended to illustrate components which may be utilized in an earphone-based game controller and health monitor, but not components which are necessarily required. The discussion begins with a section entitled \u201cExample Hardware Design,\u201d which describes example design that may be used to implement the techniques described herein. This section depicts and describes example electrical connections, power generation, a microprocessor and other components in the device. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Software Design\u201d describes example designs that may be used to implement the techniques described herein. This section depicts and describes example applications, application programming interfaces (APIs) and other functional software blocks in the device. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Methods\u201d illustrates and describes techniques to process and manage data from a variety of input devices. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Accelerometer Data Handling\u201d illustrates and describes techniques to manage data from two accelerometers, which may provide \u201ccomplex\u201d accelerometer data that is more versatile than data from a single accelerometer. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Health Monitor\u201d illustrates and describes example techniques that may be used to process sensor data and to provide health information. Finally, the discussion ends with a brief conclusion.","This brief introduction, including section titles and corresponding summaries, is provided for the reader's convenience and is not intended to describe and\/or limit the scope of the claims or any section of this disclosure.","Example Hardware Design",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108"]},"In the example of , a base unit  is used as an interface between the I\/O devices ,  and the mobile device . Alternatively, the functionality of the base unit  could be provided by the I\/O devices and\/or the mobile device . The base unit  may be configured to provide a power supply to the I\/O devices, audio signal pass-through to the I\/O devices and data processing functionality. In the example of , an audio jack  (e.g., a 2.5 or 3.5 mm jack) may be used to connect the wired connection  of the I\/O devices ,  to the base unit . Alternatively, the wiring  may be connected to the base  directly, without the use of a removable jack. The base unit  may be connected to the mobile device  by a jack  (e.g., a 2.5 or 3.5 mm audio jack).","The I\/O devices ,  may be configured for use in the left and right ears of a user, and may each contain an output device such as a speaker. Additionally, the I\/O devices ,  may function as input devices; for example, one or more of the I\/O devices may be configured with one or more sensors, such as accelerometer(s), thermometer(s), microphone(s), etc. In one example, an accelerometer in each I\/O device ,  allows the user to manipulate one I\/O device in each hand to create a \u201ccomplex\u201d accelerometer input having two input motions. The input motions may be considered individually or in a combined manner by an application, such as a video game, operating on the mobile device. A thermometer in one or both I\/O devices may provide data on the user's body temperature, while a microphone in one or both I\/O devices may provide data on the user's heart rate, respiration rate, and\/or respiration quality (coughing, wheezing, etc.) and the like. As discussed infra, these and other sensors may provide additional health benefits.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","110","102","104","102","104","110","110","110"]},"A wiring harness assembly  may provide electrical connectivity between components in the base  and one or both I\/O devices. If quick connect and disconnect are desired, a jack  and associated socket may be provided. In one example, the jack  may be a terminal portion of the wiring  (see ) and the socket (e.g., an earphone port) may be part of the base . Accordingly, the jack of the wiring  may be \u201cplugged into\u201d the socket of the base . Alternatively, the wiring harness  may be directly wired to I\/O devices, thereby obviating need for the jack  and associated socket. In such an example, the base  and I\/O devices ,  would be wired together as a unit. In the example of , wiring harness may provide wiring conductors for a power line , an audio signal , and a microphone input . The microphone input  may provide data input from the I\/O device(s), which may include multiplexed data from a plurality of sensors (e.g., accelerometers, a thermometer, microphone, etc.).","A power conversion and audio pass-through device  may receive left and right stereo inputs  corresponding to left and right tracks of an audio channel. As output, the power conversion and audio pass-through device  provides a power output conductor  and a pass-through audio signal . The power conversion and audio pass-through device  may be a discrete device or a functional block that may be integrated within other functional units.","The power conversion and audio pass-through device  may be used to provide power to devices and\/or components in the base unit  and the I\/O devices ,  (see ). Power conversion portions of the device  may utilize a signal on one of two stereo inputs (e.g., the left or the right track of a stereo input) as a source of power. For example, a steady tone on the left track (e.g., a steady frequency and amplitude) may be converted into a power source  having a desired voltage potential. By varying the signal (e.g., amplitude and frequency) the power conversion functionality may be varied to produce a desired power level.","The audio pass-through portions of the device  may \u201cpass through\u201d the audio channel not used for power generation. That is, the audio signal may pass through the device  with little or no alteration. In particular, the audio channel  may be passed through to the I\/O devices ,  (see ). In one example, a \u201cmono\u201d signal is passed through the device  to both I\/O devices , . Thus, one of the left or right audio channels may be used to generate power, while the other sound channel is passed through to speakers in one or both I\/O devices.","A data processor  may be configured to process data obtained from one or more sensors within one or more of the I\/O devices. The processing may include organizing the data into a format expected by one or more applications operating on the mobile device , multiplexing the data obtained from two I\/O devices, and other tasks. The data from the plurality of sensors may include data from one or more of accelerometers, thermometers, microphones, gyroscopes, cameras, light sensitive diodes or other sensing devices provided by the I\/O devices and\/or the base unit . Output from the data processor  may be provided on a further segment of the microphone input . The data processor  may include a microprocessor or an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), and may include a memory device, an I\/O device or gate(s) and\/or any logic circuitry indicated by a particular application or use.","An audio jack assembly  may electrically connect the left and right stereo audio conductors  and the segment of the microphone input  with the jack . Thus, the audio jack assembly  may include wiring connections required to establish electrical connection to the mobile device . The connections may include the jack , configured to plug into the mobile device  and connections to the power conversion and audio pass-through device  and the data processor  to the mobile device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["102","102","104","102","104","102"]},"A wiring harness  may provide electrical connectivity between the I\/O devices ,  and the base  (if present) or to the mobile device  (e.g., if the functionality of the base is included in the mobile device). The wiring harness  may include the wiring  seen in , together with any required connections, fasteners, strain relief devices, etc. If quick connect and disconnect are desired, a jack  may be located at a terminal end of the wiring , and an associated socket may be provided in the base  or mobile device . Accordingly, the jack allows the I\/O devices ,  to be collectively \u201cplugged in\u201d to the socket of the base . In an alternative example, the jack  may be plugged into the earphone socket defined in the mobile device .","A sound actuator  may be a speaker, and may be of a type or construction found in \u201cear bud\u201d earphones or larger headset earphones. In one example, a sound actuator  will be provide in both I\/O devices , . The sound actuator  may receive a sound signal , which both provides energy and information to the sound actuator . The sound signal  may be a mono version of a stereo input, a single channel of a stereo input, or may be a single channel audio input.","The I\/O device  may have an inertial measurement unit (IMU) , such as an accelerometer. The accelerometer detects movement of the I\/O device . In some implementations, the movement will result from movement of the I\/O device in a hand of the user, who may be providing input to an application, such as a video game operating on the mobile device . In other implementations, the movement will result from movement of the user's head, while wearing the I\/O devices ,  as \u201cear buds.\u201d The IMU sensors  may receive power as an input and provide accelerometer data as an output.","A digital thermometer  may be provided in one or both I\/O devices. Since the I\/O device  may be worn by a user as an ear bud style earphone, the digital thermometer  may provide data indicating a body temperature of the user. The body temperature may be used as input for health-related application(s) operable on the mobile device .","A microphone and\/or other miscellaneous sensors  may also be provided in one or both I\/O devices. A microphone may provide health-related information about the user, such as heart rate, respiration rate and\/or respiration problems (e.g., coughing and\/or wheezing) or similar. A health-related application running on the mobile device may turn off the sound actuator  while the microphone operates. Other sensors may be installed on one or more of the I\/O devices, including a camera, a photodiode, a gyroscope, a magnetometer and\/or other sensor devices(s).","A microcontroller  may be used to receive and process output from the IMU sensors  (e.g., accelerometer), digital thermometer , microphone  and other sensors. The microcontroller  may be and\/or include a microprocessor, one or more memory device(s), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a collection of cooperating processing devices, or the like. The microcontroller  may be configured to process the output from the sensors, such as by interpreting digital and analog signal(s), formatting data, multiplexing data, forming data packets according to a protocol, and sending data packets, etc. The microcontroller  and\/or associated or adjacent circuitry may provide power to the sensors , , , if required or indicated.","Example Software Design",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},"A post-processing application  may be configured for operation in the base , or alternatively in the mobile device . In one example, the post-processing application  may include software configured to operate on the microcontroller  of the base . The post-processing application  may be configured to process the output from the sensors, such as by interpreting digital and analog signal(s), formatting data, multiplexing data, and forming and sending data packets, etc.","A plurality of applications , ,  are representative of applications configured for operation on the mobile device . The applications may include, or be related to: video games; entertainment; business and productivity; health maintenance and health monitoring; and others. One or more applications programming interfaces (APIs) may be available for access by the applications. In the example functionality , a gaming API , an eHealth API  and a sensor API  are illustrated. Alternatively, the illustrated APIs could be combined into a unified API, or further subdivided, augmented or otherwise altered as indicated by particular circumstances and design goals. The APIs may be configured to provide the applications - with access to sensor data, control over sensors, etc. In one example, the APIs may communicate with the post-processing application  as a source of sensor information and control. Additionally, one or more drivers  may be available to configure, program, operate, control and\/or interface with one or more the sensors within the I\/O device(s).","In an addition or alternative to the applications , , , remote applications , ,  may be available, and may be operated and\/or executed by the mobile device  through a network , such as the Internet. The remote applications may be configured to access the APIs , ,  and\/or drivers , and to obtain sensor data from one or more I\/O devices , , such as through operation of the post-processing application .","The applications - and - may be configured for a wide variety of purposes. By way of example, and without limiting the purposes and\/or functionality of usable applications generally, a number of application topics can be indicated. Applications may use accelerometers in one or both I\/O devices (ear buds) for game, video game, and health assessment and monitoring functionality. The data obtained from two accelerometers may be considered to be \u201ccomplex,\u201d in that two signals may be used. If the user holds one I\/O device in each hand, the accelerometer signals may be interpreted either as a single two-handed gesture or two one-handed gestures. For example, a two-handed gesture might be interpreted as the user's two hands on two spots on a (possibly imaginary) steering wheel in a video game race car. Alternatively, a video game could interpret two one-handed gestures, such as pointing a gun with one hand (e.g., left-to-right movement with the left hand) and reloading the gun with the other hand (e.g., a circular movement with the right hand).","One or more of the applications - and - may be configured to use a microphone in a manner similar to a stethoscope, such as to listen to heart rate, respiration rate, breathing issues such as coughing and wheezing, detecting chewing patterns. Additionally, applications could use input from one or more microphones to detect buzzers, smoke alarms, the approach of cars, or a fall by a user wearing the I\/O devices as a headset. Additionally, applications can listen to a user's heart rate for indications that the user is exercising, and may use that information to coordinate appropriate selections of music to be played over the speakers of the I\/O devices. Such an application could also provide a musical transition after a workout, such as to more mellow music. The applications may also analyze sleep, such as by use of the microphone(s) and accelerometers to check breathing rate, snoring, teeth clenching and\/or grinding, and\/or the signs of sleep apnea.","One or more of the applications - and - may also relate to, be involved with, and\/or monitor, promote or enhance exercise and fitness. Exercise patterns, trips and falls, estimated calories burned, minutes spent walking, running, standing and sitting may all be estimated, recognized and\/or determined. A thermometer may measure body temperature, and may correlate temperature data with exercise and\/or health data. A camera may be used by one or more application, for such purposes as distinguishing weather, lighting levels, inside and outside locations, and for reasons of user safety and\/or public safety.","Example Methods","The example methods of  can be understood in part by reference to the configurations of . However,  contain general applicability, and are not limited by other drawing figures and\/or prior discussion. Each method described herein is illustrated as a collection of acts, blocks or operations in a logical flow graph, which represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware (e.g., application specific integrated circuits), software (e.g., execution of statements on a processor attached to memory), or a combination thereof. The methods may include storing, in a memory communicatively coupled to a processor, computer-executable instructions for performing a method, such as a method to implement an earphone-based game controller and health monitor, and executing the instructions on the processor.","In the context of software, the operations represent computer-executable instructions stored on one or more computer-readable storage media that, when executed by one or more processors, perform the recited operations. Such storage media, processors and computer-readable instructions can be located within the system (e.g., the system and example functionality  of ) according to a desired design or implementation. The storage media associated with the data processor  and\/or microcontroller  and seen in  are representative of storage media generally, both removable and non-removable, and of any technology. Thus, the recited operations represent actions, such as those described in , and may be performed under control of one or more processors configured with executable instructions to perform actions indicated. Generally, computer-executable instructions include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation, and the described operations may be combined in different orders and\/or in parallel to implement the method. The above discussion may apply to other methods described herein.","Additionally, for purposes herein, a computer-readable media may include all or part of an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) or other hardware device. Such a hardware device may be configured to include other functionality, including functions performed in game controlling and\/or health assessing and\/or monitoring. Accordingly, within such an integrated circuit, one or more processors are configured with executable instructions, which may be defined by logic, transistors or other components, or on-board memory.","In contrast, communication media may embody computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave, or other transmission mechanism. As defined herein, computer-readable media does not include communication media.","Example Accelerometer Data Handling","Accelerometer data may be used for applications related to gaming, entertainment, education, health maintenance and diagnosis, and other topics. In example embodiments using two I\/O devices, each I\/O device may be configured with an accelerometer, and data from the two accelerometers may be used in a separate or combined manner.  illustrate examples of accelerometer data handling.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},"At operation , signals output from accelerometers in each of two I\/O devices are received. In the context of the example of , signals from two I\/O devices ,  may be received at the base unit  and\/or at the mobile device . As seen in , each I\/O device may include an accelerometer, configured as an inertial measurement unit .","At operation , the received accelerometer signals are processed to provide output, which may be complex. Referring to the context of the example of , the accelerometer signals may be received by the microcontroller  within the I\/O device and\/or by the data processor  of the base unit .","At operation , accelerometer data representing a complex movement may be put on the microphone conductor for transmission to a base unit, if present, and then for use by application(s) running on a mobile device. In the context of the example of , the complex accelerometer data is placed by the data processor  on the microphone input for transmission to the mobile device  (see ). In the context of the example of , the microphone input of the mobile device is a port through which data may be introduced into the mobile device. Accordingly, by providing data representing the complex output of the accelerometers on the microphone conductor, the data is introduced to the mobile device and is available for applications accessible to the device, running locally and\/or remotely.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"At operation , the complex output of the accelerometers is examined to determine if a meaning has been assigned to combined movements of the first and second accelerometer signals. For example, the accelerometer data may be examined to determine if it represents one two-handed gesture or two one-handed gestures.","At operation , if a meaning has been assigned to the combined accelerometer data obtained from two accelerometers, then the data is used in a combined manner by an application or other consumer of the data. For example, if a single two-handed gesture has been assigned to, or has been associated with, the accelerometer data and\/or gesture, then the data is used in the combined manner.","At operation , if no meaning has been assigned to the combined accelerometer data, then the data from each accelerometer is used individually by the consumer of the data (e.g., an application). For example, if no single two-handed gesture has been assigned, then the accelerometer data may be used as two one-handed gestures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},"At operation , complex accelerometer data is sent by the I\/O devices to the mobile device  or to the base , for processing. Depending on the configuration of the earphone-based game controller and health monitor , a base unit  may interface between the I\/O devices ,  and the mobile device . In such a configuration, the complex accelerometer data may be sent by the I\/O devices to an application (e.g., post-processing application ) operating on the data processor  of the base unit . In other configurations, the accelerometer data may pass through the base unit  (if present) and be received by an application running on the mobile device  or operating remotely, such as in a data or Internet-based cloud.","At operation , the complex accelerometer data is interpreted to distinguish \u201ccombined\u201d and \u201cseparate\u201d portions of the data. That is, portions of the complex accelerometer data that involve combined input of the two accelerometers are distinguished from portions of the data that involved separate interpretation of movements of the two accelerometers. In one example, the motions of the two accelerometers are considered, and if they are consistent with motions that have previously been assigned a combined meaning, then the combined motions are distinguished from separate motions of the two accelerometers.","At operation , a screen display of a mobile device may be altered based at least in part on the interpreted complex accelerometer data. In one example, a video game application operating on the mobile device may react to accelerometer input by changing content displayed on the screen. The accelerometer input may change screen content based on either a combined meaning of two accelerometers or according to separate meanings of the two accelerometers.","Example Health Monitor",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"],"b":["800","308","102","104","402","312","106"]},"At operation , a signal from a thermometer may be multiplexed with the complex accelerometer data for transmission on a microphone conductor. In the context of the example of , the digital thermometer  provides raw data to the microcontroller , which multiplexes the provided data with data from the IMU accelerometers  and\/or other sensors, if present. The multiplexed data may be put onto a microphone conductor that is input to the mobile unit.","At operation , the signal from the thermometer may be interpreted by an application running on the mobile device. The interpretation may include converting an analog signal to digital, converting digital data into a representation of temperature, assigning units of measurement (e.g., Fahrenheit or Celsius), assigning a time of measurement, and\/or other processing.","At operation , data obtained from the signal and\/or the interpretation of the signal is stored. The storing may include representing the signal from the thermometer in an appropriate data structure.","At operation , a warning is provided to the user if the temperature data is not within an acceptable (e.g., a healthy) range. At operation , the recorded temperature data and\/or any warnings may be communicated with a remote facility, such as a family member, doctor's office, clinic, hospital or emergency call center, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","902","904"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1 and 3"],"b":["1000","1002","1004","304","1006"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 2 and 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["1100","1102","102","104","110","106","216","312","1104","402","404","408","418","422","106","1106","404","408","418","422","1108","1110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIGS. 1 and 3"],"b":["1200","1202","310","402","110","404","408","418","422","1204","404","408","418","422","304","102","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIGS. 1 and 3"],"b":["1300","1302","310","404","106","1304","304"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["1400","1402","212","210","1404","1406"]},"Conclusion","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is described with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features and components. Moreover, the figures are intended to illustrate general concepts, and not to indicate required and\/or necessary elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
