---
title: System, method and program to manage alternate bookmarks
abstract: System, method and program for managing bookmarks. A user hovers a cursor over a primary bookmark displayed on a client computer. In response, the client computer automatically sends a request to a server corresponding to the primary bookmark to identify one or more alternate bookmarks that correspond to the primary bookmark. In response to receipt of the identification of the one or more alternate bookmarks from the server, the client computer displays the one or more alternate bookmarks adjacent to the primary bookmark. If a user selects one of the alternate bookmarks which is displayed, the client computer sends a request to a web server corresponding to the selected alternate bookmark for a web page corresponding to the selected alternate bookmark.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346769&OS=08346769&RS=08346769
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08346769
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation of co-pending U.S. Ser. No. 11\/431,685, filed May 9, 2006 which published Dec. 6, 2007, as U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070282802 A1.","The present invention relates generally to the World Wide Web, and more specifically to web browser \u201cbookmarks\u201d.","The Internet is well known today, and comprises a vast multitude of communication media, Internet Service Providers, firewalls, routers, network switches, etc. Client computers are connected to web servers via the Internet. Web servers host \u201cweb sites\u201d to provide information to users at the client computers and also provide an interface to applications hosted at the web server. A web site typically comprises multiple web pages and web files. Each web page and web file has a unique Universal Resource Locator (\u201cURL\u201d) used by the client computer to address the web page or web file. A web page typically includes hyper links, corresponding to other web pages or web files, to facilitate user selection of the web page or web file. Thus, when a user at a client computer with a web browser enters a URL or selects a hyper link (representing a URL) from a web page, the web browser sends a request to the web server which hosts the web page or web file addressed by the URL. The web server then returns the web page or web file to the client computer (in HTML for a web page, FTP for web file, or other such form), and the web browser renders and initiates display of the web page or web file on the client computer. The user can obtain information from the web page or web file or use the web page to interface an application hosted on the web server, such as an application to electronically purchase a product listed on the web page.","Known web browsers also define and display \u201cbookmarks\u201d (also known as \u201chot lists\u201d or \u201cFavorites\u201d) comprised of hyperlinks in a list. The web browser typically displays the bookmarks in a pull-down menu. Bookmarks may also be displayed on a web browser bookmarks toolbar. A bookmark can be a name (such as a subject or description) of a web page or web file. The name associated with each web page or web file comes from an existing \u201c<title>\u201d markup tag in the HTML code by default. A bookmark can also be the actual URL of the web page or web file, if no name or description of the web page or web file is available. A bookmark name may also be modified by the user to be a name of the user's choosing or the bookmark name may be modified to be blank. In either case, the web browser also stores the URL corresponding to the displayed bookmark as the \u201ctarget\u201d of the bookmark. Each bookmark is a hyper link for a corresponding web page or web file, and when selected by a user, will cause the client computer to request the corresponding web page or web file from the web server that hosts the web page or web file. The bookmarks may represent web pages or web files that the user frequently requests, are important to the user, or the user does not want to forget for one reason or other. To create a bookmark, the user can enter the URL into the bookmark list by typing the URL, or more commonly, by indicating to the web browser that the URL of a web page or web file currently being displayed should be added to the bookmark list. In the latter case, the web browser will display as a bookmark the name (or URL, if no name is known) of the web page currently being displayed, and store the corresponding URL as well.","It was known that when a mouse cursor hovers over a certain type of hyper link (i.e. a \u201cmouse-over\u201d), the web browser may display the URL of the hyper link in a status bar below the web page. A publication entitled \u201cConcepts for Improved Visualization of Web Link Attributes\u201d (HyperScout) by Harald Weinreich and Winfried Lamersdorf, published by University of Hamburg, Germany (more than one year ago), discloses a method for displaying additional hyper link information to a user.","It was also known that when a mouse cursor hovers over a certain type of bookmark, the web browser will request additional information from the web site corresponding to the bookmark, and display the additional information next to the bookmark. A Mozilla\u00ae \u201cLive Bookmarks\u201d program feature of Mozilla\u00ae Firefox\u00ae web browsers provides dynamic bookmarks which retrieve dynamic information, such as news headlines from the bookmarked web site. Mozilla\u00ae and Firefox\u00ae are registered trademarks of Mozilla Foundation. Another publication entitled \u201cBrowsing Fatigue in Handhelds: Semantic Bookmarking Spells Relief\u201d by Saikat Mukherjee and I. V. Ramakrishnan, published by World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2) on May 10-14, 2005, discloses semantic bookmarks that provide a conceptual framework for recording and retrieving targeted content not only from specific pages used in creating the bookmarks but also from any user-specified page with similar content semantics. A bookmark is associated with both the URL of the page as well as extraction expressions that when applied to this page will retrieve the desired content.","Another publication entitled \u201cSupporting Virtual Documents in Just-in-Time Hypermedia Systems\u201d by Li Zhang, Michael Bieber, David Millard and Vincent Oria, published by ACM in 2004, publication number ACM 1-58113-938-1\/04\/0010, discloses creation of a bookmark containing calculation results before closing a window for a sales support application used to calculate the results. Invoking each bookmark later causes the sales support application to re-execute its calculations automatically, and a just-in-time hypermedia system relocates the user's comments in the application's regenerated display. U.S. Pat. No. 6,535,912 discloses a method for creating and playing back a smart bookmark that automatically retrieves a requested web page through a plurality of intermediate web pages.","Another publication entitled \u201cAn Approach to Providing a Seamless End-User Experience for Location-Aware Applications\u201d by Sastry Duni, Alan Cole, Jonathan Munson and Jim Christensen\u201d, published by ACM in 2001, publication number 1-58113-376-6\/01\/07, discloses dynamic bookmarks where a URL associated with a dynamic bookmark may vary from location to location. The application detects location changes and updates the URLs associated with dynamic bookmarks. Also, each dynamic bookmark is associated with a set of attributes that are used to find matching URLs at a given location. Finally, the process of matching dynamic bookmarks with corresponding URLs is triggered by changes in the user's location.","An object of the present invention is to facilitate navigation through a web site using bookmarks.","The present invention resides in a system, method and program for managing bookmarks. A user hovers a cursor over a primary bookmark displayed on a client computer. In response, the client computer automatically sends a request to a server corresponding to the primary bookmark to identify one or more alternate bookmarks that correspond to the primary bookmark. In response to receipt of the identification of the one or more alternate bookmarks from the server, the client computer displays the one or more alternate bookmarks adjacent to the primary bookmark. If a user selects one of the alternate bookmarks which is displayed, the client computer sends a request to a web server corresponding to the selected alternate bookmark for a web page corresponding to the selected alternate bookmark.","The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the figures.  illustrates a distributed computer system generally designated . System  includes a client computer  with known CPU , operating system , RAM , ROM , and storage  and a monitor . Client computer  is connected to Internet  via a TCP\/IP adapter card . Client computer  also includes a web browser  with known functions to render and display web pages fetched from a web server , receive data or URL entry by a user, receive selections of hyper links (embedded in a web page, listed as a primary bookmark or listed as an alternate bookmark) by a user, and request, render and initiate display of web pages corresponding to the hyper links selected by the user. Web browser  maintains a bookmark file  which lists hyper links, and corresponding URLs of web pages or web files. The bookmarks are displayed in a pull down menu , when the user selects the pull down menu. The bookmarks may also be displayed on the web browser  bookmarks toolbar. If a user selects one of the hyperlinks, the web browser will request the corresponding web page or web file from the web server that hosts the web page or web file. The bookmark hyper link can be a name, if available, of the corresponding web page or web file. If a bookmark does not have a name, then the web browser can display the URL itself as the hyper link in the bookmark list. A user may also specify the user's own bookmark name upon creation and may also rename the bookmark at a later time. Upon receipt of an HTML or other representation of a web page or web file corresponding to a selected bookmark, the web browser will render and initiate display of the requested web page or web file.","In accordance with the present invention, if a user at client computer  hovers a mouse cursor for a predetermined minimum time over a bookmark, i.e. a name or URL of a web page or web file in the lists of bookmarks (shown figuratively by the highlighting of \u201cibm.com\u201d), web browser  will detect this hovering, and notify a bookmark update program  within the client computer. (Program  can be part of web browser  or a separate program.) For purposes of explanation herein, the bookmarks in the pull-down menu  or on the bookmarks toolbar may be called \u201cprimary\u201d bookmarks. The notification includes the identity of the primary bookmark over which the mouse cursor hovered. In response, program  will request from the web server (such as server ) addressed by the primary bookmark, a list of current, \u201calternate\u201d hyperlinks for the primary bookmark over which the mouse hovered. The client request will identify the identity of the primary bookmark over which the mouse hovered. Upon receipt at client computer of the current, alternate bookmarks, web browser  will display the current, alternate bookmarks next to the primary bookmark over which the mouse hovered to elicit the request. The user can then select any of the current, alternate bookmarks to request the corresponding web page or web file. The foregoing process gives the web server control in defining the alternate bookmarks to facilitate meaningful and valuable navigation through the web site hosted by the web server. For example, if certain web pages are currently of keen interest to the public or customer base, the web server can return these web pages to client computers as alternate bookmarks for a primary bookmark for the home page of the web site.","Server  includes a known CPU , operating system , RAM , ROM  and storage , and is connected to the Internet via a TCP\/IP adapter card . Server  also includes a bookmark management program , according to the present invention. Program  maintains, for one or more of the URLs\/web pages hosted by the web server , respective record(s)  (in a table or other file format) of alternate bookmarks to be displayed at a client computer in response to the client computer's request for the alternate book marks for respective primary bookmarks. In the example illustrated in , \u201czSeries.com\u201d and \u201corder.com\u201d, are current alternate bookmarks  for the primary bookmark \u201cibm.com\u201d, i.e. the home page of the IBM web site. (Client computer fetched these recently in response to a mouse-over of \u201cibm.com\u201d primary bookmark.) The information in this record is based either on specification from an administrator of the web site or an algorithm implemented by program , as described below with reference to . For example, the \u201cibm.com\/zSeries\u201d web page gives information about a newly released, IBM\u00ae zSeries\u00ae server, and the \u201cibm.com\/order\u201d web page gives status information for pending orders placed from this client computer or user ID. IBM and zSeries are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation (\u201cIBM\u201d). To generate the state of client computer  illustrated in , the user of client computer  hovered a mouse cursor over the primary bookmark \u201cibm.com\u201d. In response, bookmark update program  requested from server  the current, alternate bookmarks for the primary bookmark \u201cibm.com\u201d, and program  returned the list of alternate bookmarks to program  in client computer . In response, program  notified web browser  to render and initiate display of the alternate bookmarks next to the primary bookmark over which the mouse cursor hovered. (The user need only hover the mouse cursor over the primary bookmark for a minimum, predetermined time to initiate the request from program ; the user need not continue to hover the mouse cursor over the primary bookmark for the entire time it takes to receive the list of alternate bookmarks from program .) Thus, programs  and  provide dynamic, alternate bookmarks, under the control of the web server identified by the primary bookmark. On a subsequent day, there is a new release of an IBM\u00ae pSeries\u00ae server and no pending orders placed by client computer  or by the user of client computer. IBM and pSeries are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation (\u201cIBM\u201d). The user hovers a mouse cursor over the bookmark for the IBM home page, and program  requests the current alternate bookmarks. Program  responds with an alternate bookmark for an \u201cIBM pSeries\u201d web page (and no alternate bookmark for the pending order web page). Thus, according to the present invention, the web server  can dynamically change the alternate bookmarks for each of the primary bookmarks, based on changing conditions or preferences of the web server or the administrator of the web server. As another example, during certain months of the year, program  may be programmed to feature certain seasonal products of a retailer by providing, as alternate bookmarks (for a primary bookmark for the home page of the retailer), the names or URLs of web pages featuring these seasonal products. As another example, the administrator may want to feature certain products which are currently \u201con sale\u201d or for which there is currently a discount coupon available at the web site, by providing as alternate bookmarks (for a primary bookmark for the home page of the retailer), the names or URLs of web pages featuring these products. (Other servers on the Internet are also equipped with a similar bookmark management program, host the web pages indicated by one or more other primary bookmarks in the pull down menu and provide the list of alternate bookmarks upon request by a client computer for display by the client computer as described above.)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 2(A) and 2(B)","FIG. 1"],"b":["30","40","60","100","38","39","30","30","38","102","30","104","105","30","40","106","40","108","50","40","110","50","40","111","40","112","111","50","40","120","40","30","60","40","124","126","40","130","128","40","140","128","144","40","60","150","150","40","124","124","144","150","40","30","154","160","40","130","140","160","50","40","164","50","164","40","30","170","50","164","40","30","168","30","40","160","160","170","50","174","40","50","30","180","40","184","40","30","186","180","188","30","38","190","30","194","188","40","196"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["60","61","200","202","50","202","202","202","204","60","500","208","60","500","212"]},"One example of program routine  (or script function) executed in step  to identify the alternate bookmarks for the web site is illustrated in . In step , program  sets a variable \u201cx\u201d for a number of data entries to list as alternate bookmarks. Next program  queries a log or other record for the data entries (step ). For example, program  can query a process, file or log indicating (a) which web pages received the most number of requests during the previous time interval such as an hour or day, (b) which products were the best sellers during the previous time interval such as a day, week or month. Next, program  stores in the alternate bookmarks file  the \u201cx\u201d number of data entries identified by the algorithm in step  (step ). Optionally, in step , program  can delete any of the \u201cx\u201d data entries that do not exceed predetermined respective thresholds for (a) the number of requests for the web pages during the previous time interval, and (b) amount of sales of the products corresponding to the web pages.","Another example of program routine  (or script function) executed in step  to identify the alternate bookmarks for the web site is illustrated in . In step , an administrator populates a file pool of possible alternate bookmarks. The file pool specifies for each alternate bookmark its displayed name and corresponding URL or in the absence of a displayed name, its URL for display. The file pool also specifies the criteria for displaying each alternate bookmark such as the day, time of day, month, season (specified by starting and ending dates), holiday (specified by date), etc. that the respective bookmark should be displayed. In step , program  determines intervals for updating alternate bookmarks file , such as daily, hourly, etc. At the next interval, program  queries the file pool  for the alternate bookmarks that match the current day and time (step ) and collects these alternate bookmarks (step ).","Referring again to , next, program  writes resulting output from the custom algorithms and scripts, i.e. URL: Displayed Name combinations or URL only information, to the alternate bookmarks file  (step ). Next, program  exits the automatic update routine (step ). As explained above, during operation, a client computer (such as client computer ) sends to web server  a GET request for a set of alternate bookmarks for a URL of a primary bookmark specified in the request. In response, program  returns a list of alternate bookmarks corresponding to the specified primary bookmark.","Program  can be loaded into client computer  from a computer readable media  such as magnetic tape or disk, optical disk, DVD, memory stick, etc. or downloaded from the Internet via TCP\/IP adapter card .","Program  can be loaded into web server  from a computer readable media  such as magnetic tape or disk, optical disk, DVD, memory stick, etc. or downloaded from the Internet via a TCP\/IP adapter card .","Based on the foregoing, a system, method and program for managing bookmarks have been disclosed. However, numerous modifications and substitutions can be made without deviating from the scope of the present invention. For example, in addition to a mouse-over of a primary bookmark causing program  to request the corresponding alternate bookmarks, if the user positions a keyboard cursor under keyboard control over a primary bookmark, but does not select the primary bookmark within the predetermined time, web browser  will notify program  to request the alternate bookmarks. Processing continues thereafter as described above to render and display the list of alternate bookmarks received from the web server. Therefore, the present invention has been disclosed by way of illustration and not limitation, and reference should be made to the following claims to determine the scope of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIGS. 2(A) and 2(B)","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
