---
title: Flexible plate fixation of bone fractures
abstract: Embodiments provide methods, apparatuses, and systems for fixation of a fractured bone with a bone plate. In various embodiments, the systems and plates provide elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to an osteosynthesis plate. This elastic suspension can promote load distribution between the screws that connect a bone segment to the plate, thereby reducing stress risers and load shielding effect. In addition, stress at the screw holes, and within the construct as a whole, is reduced by incorporation of these elastic elements in the plate. Additionally, in some embodiments where fracture healing by callus formation is desired, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate can enable small, controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate. This relative motion can promote fracture healing by callus formation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08790379&OS=08790379&RS=08790379
owner: Zimmer, Inc.
number: 08790379
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF DISCLOSED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application is a continuation-in-part of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13\/166,539, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/428,745 filed Dec. 30, 2010, entitled \u201cFLEXIBLE PLATE FIXATION OF BONE FRACTURES,\u201d and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/357,855 filed Jun. 23, 2010, entitled \u201cFLEXIBLE PLATE FIXATION OF BONE FRACTURES.\u201d This application additionally claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/594,560 filed Feb. 3, 2012 and entitled \u201cBONE PLATE FOR OSTEOSYNTHESIS,\u201d the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","This invention was made with government support under AR061201 awarded by The National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.","Embodiments herein relate generally to devices for fixation of a fractured bone.","Osteosynthesis plates for stabilization of bone fractures are typically applied with bone screws. Traditionally, bone screws were used to compress a plate onto the bone surface to provide stable fixation. More recently, locking plates have been introduced, which typically have threaded receiving holes for positive, angle-stable engagement with the threaded head portion of a locking screw. These types of locking plates have been described in French patent document 742,618; U.S. Pat. No. 5,709,686; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,741,258. These locking plates can provide more stable fixation in the ends of weak, osteoporotic bone compared to traditional, non-locking plates.","Clinically, locking plate constructs face two principal challenges that may be addressed by the present invention. First, a locked plate construct may alter the load distribution in bone, which may either cause bone resorption in case of load shielding, or bone fracture due to implant-induced stress risers. Second, the high stiffness of a locked plate construct can suppress relative displacement between bone fragments, whereby this interfragmentary motion is important to promote the natural cascade of fracture healing by callus formation. Therefore, overly stiff locking plate constructs may delay or prevent fracture healing by callus formation.","The present invention addresses both of these challenges. First, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate promotes load distribution between the screws that connect a bone segment to the plate, thereby reducing stress risers and load shielding effects. Second, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate enables small, controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate. These controlled amounts of relative motion can promote fracture healing by callus formation.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,943,292 describes the use of a cushion of elastic material between the screw head and the bone plate to reduce construct stiffness and to allow early motion at the fracture site. However, U.S. Pat. No. 4,943,292 can only be practiced with non-locking screws, whereby the plate has to be compressed onto the bone surface. This prevents relative motion between the plate and the bone surface required to induce axial motion at the fracture site.","To enable relative motion between the plate and the bone surface with non-locking screws, the use of resorbable or biodegradable materials spaced between a screw head and a plate (US 2010\/0249850; U.S. Pat. No. 4,338,926) has been disclosed. However, this prior art provides relative stiff fixation in the early healing phase where a flexible construct is most desirable to stimulate formation of a healing callus. Furthermore, the prior art progressively loosens over time as resorption of the biodegradable material at the screw-plate interface causes an increasing lack of fixation stability.","U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2011\/0118742A1 describes means for permanent displacement of a screw hole relative to a bone plate to generate static compression across the bone fracture spanned by the bone plate. Their invention relies on plastic deformation of the screw hole, and is therefore not suitable for elastic suspension of a screw hole to induce dynamic motion at a fracture site to stimulate fracture healing by callus formation. Moreover, deformation of a locking screw hole may compromise the screw-bone interface.","The present invention employs elastic suspension of receiving holes in a plate, whereby the screw hole does not undergo deformation, and whereby said receiving holes are threaded to receive locking screws that enable plate elevation over the bone surface. Alternatively, elastically suspended receiving hole elements may extend past the lower surface of the plate when used with non-locking screws to allow plate suspension over the bone surface, which is required to support relative motion between the plate and the bone surface.","It is therefore beneficial and desirable to stabilize a bone fracture with the plate of the present invention to enhance load distribution between screws, and to promoted fracture site motion when fracture healing by callus formation is desired.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore, the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.","Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn, in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments; however, the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.","The description may use perspective-based descriptions such as up\/down, back\/front, and top\/bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.","The terms \u201ccoupled\u201d and \u201cconnected,\u201d along with their derivatives, may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather, in particular embodiments, \u201cconnected\u201d may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical contact with each other. \u201cCoupled\u201d may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However, \u201ccoupled\u201d may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other, but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.","For the purposes of the description, a phrase in the form \u201cA\/B\u201d or in the form \u201cA and\/or B\u201d means (A), (B), or (A and B). For the purposes of the description, a phrase in the form \u201cat least one of A, B, and C\u201d means (A), (B), (C), (A and B), (A and C), (B and C), or (A, B and C). For the purposes of the description, a phrase in the form \u201c(A)B\u201d means (B) or (AB) that is, A is an optional element.","The description may use the terms \u201cembodiment\u201d or \u201cembodiments,\u201d which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore, the terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d \u201chaving,\u201d and the like, as used with respect to embodiments, are synonymous.","In various embodiments, methods, apparatuses, and systems for fixation of a fractured bone are provided. In various embodiments, the systems and plates may provide elastic suspension of receiving holes relative to an osteosynthesis plate. In various embodiments, this elastic suspension may promote load distribution between screws that connect a bone segment to the plate, thereby reducing stress risers and the load shielding effect. In addition, in various embodiments, stress at the screw holes, and within the construct as a whole, may be reduced by incorporation of these elastic elements in the plate. Additionally, in some embodiments, for instance if fracture healing by callus formation is desired, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate may enable small, controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate, which may promote fracture healing by callus formation. In some embodiments, relative motion between bone fragments enabled by the elastic elements may be substantially parallel to an upper or lower surface of the bone plate, or substantially parallel to a bone surface. This elastic suspension may be achieved through the use of an elastomer material, such as medical grade silicone, as a spacer and spring element.","In some embodiments, elastic suspension is achieved through the use of spring elements or elastic beam elements. These spring elements or elastic beam elements may be at least partially comprised of metal, which may be supplemented with an elastomer fill material. The space surrounding the spring elements or elastic beam elements may be at least partially filled with an elastomer material in order to prevent bottoming out or straining of the element, which can lead to breaking. This elastomer material may be, for example, a medical grade silicone polymer.","It will be appreciated that the elastomer material may be used in any embodiment described herein by at least partially filling any gaps or spaces between components used with the bone plates.","Unlike other devices, bone plates in accordance with certain embodiments disclosed herein may be configured to be suspended above the surface of the bone, so that a gap is present between the lower surface of the plate and the upper surface of the bone. In various embodiments, this may be accomplished by using locking screws that are designed to engage with a threaded hole in the bone plate. In various embodiments, the coupling of a locking screw with a corresponding portion of a bone plate may ensure that the locking screw is only inserted to a certain extent, for instance the point where the screw locks into the hole of the bone plate. In another embodiment, the receiving hole elements may extend through the lower surface of the bone plate, for instance so that the plate remains suspended over the bone surface even if a bone fastener is used to compress the receiving hole element to the one bone.","In other embodiments, for instance if direct fracture healing is desired, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate may promote elastic compression across a fracture site, whereby the plate may be affixed to the bone with non-locking screws inserted in an eccentric manner in order to induce compression across the fracture. Thus, in various embodiments, it may be beneficial and desirable to stabilize a bone fracture with a plate as disclosed herein to enhance load distribution between screws, to promote fracture site motion when fracture healing by callus formation is desired, and\/or to induce prolonged compression across a fracture when direct fracture healing is desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIGS. 1A"],"b":["1","2","2","101","160","108","136","108","106","105","105","105","136","160","148","168","103","136","105","160","105","160","105","136","148","107","108","160","108","101"],"i":["a ","a ","a","a ","a "]},"In various embodiments, the circular through-hole  of rivet  may be threaded, and the threads may extend into quasi-rectangular through hole  of screw hole member . In various embodiments, a screw  with matching threads may be inserted from the upper plate surface  through the rivet , and the screw locking feature  may be sufficiently large to extend laterally across motion gap  of elastic segments . Thus, in various embodiments, the screw locking feature  may therefore limit deflection of screw hole member toward lower plate surface . Additionally or alternatively, in some embodiments, the rivet head  may limit deflection of screw hole member toward upper plate surface . Thus, the illustrated example may enable controlled translation of screw hole member relative to the longitudinal axis of the plate, yet may limit translation relative to the plane of bone plate  when screw hole member is guided between the screw locking feature  and rivet head .","Another example of a bone plate  that includes a rivet  is shown in , D, and E, which illustrate a top view (), a cross-sectional view ), and an exploded perspective view () of a bone plate having a rectangular rivet , a screw , and a plate  with generally symmetrically arranged elastic segments  flanking the screw receiving hole on either side, all in accordance with various embodiments. In this embodiment, rivet  may have a rectangular or square shape, and may be recessed into the top and or bottom surfaces of bone plate . In some embodiments, rivet  may include a separate center shaft portion , and one or two shoulder portions  coupled thereto. In various embodiments, the upper and\/or lower shoulder portions  of rivet  may limit translation of receiving hole  in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the upper or lower plane of bone plate . In other words, rivet  may constrain out-of-plane motion, while still allowing axial (e.g., in-plane) translation of receiving hole  relative to bone plate  (or vice versa). In some embodiments, screw  may be a locking screw, for instance, a screw having a threaded head portion, or it may be a non-locking screw. In some embodiments, a non-locking screw may compress shoulder portions  and center shaft portion  of rivet  onto the bone, while plate  may retain an axially flexible connection with the bone via elastic segments .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A","FIGS. 4A"],"b":["3","3","4","4","4","301"]},"As discussed above and as illustrated in , a bone plate in accordance with the present disclosure may include elastic segments  that may be symmetrically arranged in proximity with the screw hole , for instance to enable translation of the screw hole member in a principally axial direction. In some embodiments, screw hole member may be guided to remain within the plane of the plate by a thread that may extend from screw hole , across the motion gap , and into the plate member . In some embodiments, thread  may be characterized by an outer diameter that is considerably larger than the core diameter. For example, a suitable core diameter is in the range of 2 to 5 and a suitable outer diameter is in the range of 4 to 10.","In various embodiments, the locking screw  may include a correspondingly threaded head segment  with an outer diameter that is considerably larger than the core diameter. However, in various embodiments, the outer diameter of the thread  of the screw head segment  may be smaller than the outer diameter of thread in screw hole member . In various embodiments, the outer diameter of thread  in screw head segment  may remain large enough to extend across the motion gap  and into the plate member , once inserted into the screw hole . In some embodiments, screw head  may include a locking feature  at may enable rigid fixation of screw head  inside screw hole member . In particular embodiments, once screw  is fixed to screw hole member , screw hole member may translate in a principally axial direction relative to the plate longitudinal axis, for instance, due to the difference in outer diameters between screw head , thread , and plate thread . However, in some embodiments, extension of screw head thread  across motion gap  and into plate member  may limit deflection of screw hole member outside the plane of plate .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 5A-5D"],"b":["5","5","5","501","507","505","502","503","501","508","505","505","507","508","502","503","507","505","502","501","510","507","502","501","509","505","503","501","507"],"i":["a ","a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":["601","602","603","604","605","602","603","605","605","604","605","604"]},"Also included in some embodiments, in the vicinity of receiving hole  are one or more slots  extending from the upper surface  to the bone contacting surface . In various embodiments, at least one substantially C-shaped, E-shaped, or semi-circular slot  may extend around a substantial portion of receiving hole . In some embodiments, a corresponding slot may extend from the opposite side of the periphery around receiving hole . In some embodiments, the end segments of slot  may overlap, but not intersect the end segments of corresponding slot . Thus, in various embodiments, the overlapping slots  and may enclose elastic beam elements (e.g., spring elements)  that may enable elastic translation of receiving hole  relative to bone plate  in a direction principally parallel to the longitudinal axis  of bone plate .","In the embodiment illustrated in , elastic beam elements  may be formed by combining at least one substantially C-shaped, E-shaped or semicircular slot  with one or more substantially linear slots extending from the periphery of bone plate  in an essentially perpendicular manner to overlap but not intersect with the ends of slots .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B"],"b":["701","710","726","710","710","718","705","710","713","714","726","726","710","705","701","708","705","701"]},"In various embodiments, the dimensions and\/or the configuration of the spring elements (e.g., elastic beam elements) and\/or slots may be varied in order to achieve a desired stiffness and range of elastic displacement of the bone plate relative to the receiving holes.  depicts an embodiment with thicker beam elements  as compared to beam elements  shown in , the latter allowing for more flexible displacement of receiving hole  relative to bone plate member . Another example of a way to decrease the stiffness of the elastic elements is depicted in , wherein the length of slot  is increased in order to increase the effective length of beam elements . Yet another example of a way to decrease the stiffness of the elastic element is depicted in , wherein slots  are configured in a substantially E-shaped formation, which may yield an increased effective length of elastic beam elements . Another alternative embodiment of an elastic element is depicted in , wherein receiving hole  is located in vicinity of plate edge . In this example, two slots  may overlap but not intersect each end of a C-shaped slot  to form elastic beam elements .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9A","FIG. 8D","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["906","901","908","901","906","906","908","906","901","908","908","905","908","901","901","908","906","905","901","905","901","906","905","901"],"i":["b ","a","a ","b","b "]},"Some embodiments of the flexible fixation bone plates may include curvilinear and\/or spiral-shaped slots.  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes of a single spiral-shaped slot ,  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a single spiral-shaped slot  with curvilinear  and round elements  on the outside and inside spiral ends, respectively,  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a single spiral-shaped slot  having a thin elastic beam element ,  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a pair of interlaced spiral-shaped slots , wherein the flexible element is offset from the midline of the bone plate ,  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a pair of interlaced spiral-shaped slots , wherein the flexible element is positioned at the midline of the bone plate , and  illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes three interlaced spiral-shaped slots , all in accordance with various embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 10C"],"b":["1006","1005","1006","1005","1008","1018","1016","1006","1008","1008","1005","1001","1008"]},"As shown in , receiving holes  may be located along the midline of plate , or at a distance from the longitudinal axis of plate . For example, in various embodiments, if receiving holes  are arranged in an alternating staggered pattern relative to the longitudinal midline of plate , they may provide multi-planar fixation to improve the strength of the fixation between plate  and the underlying bone. Both  illustrate spiral slots  that include two interlaced spirals. One of skill in the art will appreciate that additional spiral slots  may be used, such as the three-slot  arrangement depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A","b":["11","11","1101","1106","1108","1120","1136","1120","1136"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1208","1206","1208","1264","1266","1205"]},"In further embodiments,  illustrates several views of a flexible element  used in conjunction with a rivet  configured to protect the flexible element  from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate ,  illustrates several views of a flexible element  used in conjunction with a half-rivet  configured to protect the flexible element  from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate , and  illustrates a perspective view of a half rivet  configured to protect the flexible element  from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate , wherein the half-rivet  is used together with a customized bone screw , all in accordance with various embodiments.","As illustrated in , the elastic element  may include a spiral-shaped slot  positioned around receiving hole , and the spiral slot  may circumscribe receiving hole  once or multiple times, creating elastic beam element  where it overlaps. In this embodiment, a rivet  may be provided in receiving hole , and may be configured to protect elastic beam element  from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of plate . In various embodiments, rivet  may have a shoulder  on each side of a central cylinder  to restrict flexion of elastic beam element  that may occur within the plane of plate . In embodiments, the inner diameter of the central cylinder  of rivet  may be threaded for rigid locking with the threaded head of a bone screw . Depending on plate  thickness, the rivet shoulders  may rest on the surface of the plate , or may be recessed into the plate . In various embodiments wherein shoulder  is recessed, the longitudinal dimension of the recess may be larger than the corresponding dimension of rivet shoulder  to allow rivet translation along the plate  longitudinal axis, while constraining rivet  translation in a transverse direction.","In various embodiments, for assembly, rivet  may include two parts that may be inserted from opposite sides into receiving hole , and the two parts may be rigidly coupled to each other, for instance by laser welding or by a thread feature between central cylinder  and shoulder . Alternatively, as illustrated in , rivet  may have only one shoulder  to form a \u201chalf-rivet\u201d , which may limit deformation of elastic beam element  in only one direction. In various embodiments, half-rivet  may include an externally threaded central cylinder  for rigid engagement to elastic beam element . Alternatively, in some embodiments, half-rivet  may be attached to elastic beam element  using a press fit between central cylinder  and elastic beam element . In embodiments, half-rivet  may be used in combination with a customized bone screw  as shown in , which may include a head that incorporates a corresponding shoulder element . Thus, in various embodiments, upon screw insertion, elastic beam element  may be confined between shoulder  of half-rivet  and the corresponding shoulder  of the screw head, with the remainder of the screw head resting inside central cylinder  of half-rivet .","In various other embodiments shown in , rivet  may be elastically suspended inside receiving hole  using a discrete spring element . In some embodiments, spring element  may include a corrugated metal strip , that may circumscribe central cylinder  of rivet , and that may center rivet  inside receiving hole , while allowing for elastic translation of rivet  within the plane of plate . This spring element including a corrugated metal strip may be supplemented with an elastomer fill material, which at least partially fills the space between rivet  and plate  to provide additional elastic suspension and damping, and to prevent bottoming out, wear or excessive deformation of spring element . In other embodiments, the spring element  may include an elastomer material, such as a silicone derivative, that provides a hyper-elastic interface, filling space in the receiving hole between the central cylinder  of rivet  and plate . In some embodiments, spring element  may further retain rivet  inside the plane of plate . The inner diameter of central cylinder  of rivet  may be threaded in some embodiments for rigid locking with the threaded head of a bone screw.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIGS. 15","b":["15","15","15","1546","1546","1536","1501","1546","1548","1536","1548","1546","1548","1501","1546","1550","1546","1501","1546","1536","90","1501","1548","1542","1501","1546","1501"]},"In further embodiments,  illustrates a top view of a threaded insert  that is generated from the bone plate  by introducing a slot  that circumscribes the receiving hole ,  illustrates a schematic view of the device shown in ,  illustrates a longitudinal cross-sectional view of the device shown in , and  illustrates a transverse cross-sectional view of the device shown in , all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in various embodiments, a threaded insert  may be generated from plate  by introducing a slot  that circumscribes receiving hole . In various embodiments, slot  may be introduced in an anti-parallel manner, whereby two opposing sections  of slot  converge toward the lower side  of plate , while two other opposing sections  diverge toward the lower side  of plate . Hence, in these embodiments, the anti-parallel slot  may enable threaded insert  to translate relative to plate  within the confines of the slot width, and without being able to disassociate from plate . The space between the threaded insert  and the plate  may be filled with an elastomer material. This elastomer material may comprise an elastic silicone derivative, which may act as a spacer and a spring between the threaded insert and plate, providing an elastic suspension of the threaded insert.","In still other embodiments,  illustrates a transverse cross-sectional view of a threaded insert  formed by the introduction of a slot  that circumscribes the receiving hole  in an anti-parallel manner and suspended (centered) inside a bone plate  using flexible elements ,  illustrates a top view of the device illustrated in , and  illustrates a longitudinal cross-sectional view of the device illustrated in , all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in , threaded insert  may be formed by the introduction of a slot  that circumscribes receiving hole  in an antiparallel manner as described above, and threaded insert  may be suspended (centered) inside plate  using flexible elements . In an exemplary embodiment, these flexible elements  may be cylindrical in shape and comprised of a polymer, and may provide a flexible connection between threaded insert  and plate , while the anti-parallel slot ensures that threaded insert  remains securely captured in plate . In other embodiments, the threaded insert may be suspended by an elastomer material, such as a silicone derivative, that provides a hyper-elastic interface, filling a space between the threaded insert  and the plate .","In other embodiments,  illustrates a cross-sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic fixation of a bone fracture, shown in functional but unloaded association with locking bone screws for spanning a bone fracture in a cylindrical bone, and  illustrates a cross-sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic fixation of a bone fracture, shown in functional association with locking bone screws for spanning a bone fracture in a cylindrical bone, wherein axial compression of the cylindrical bone segments induces parallel motion at the fracture, both in accordance with various embodiments.","Thus, in order to illustrate a method for elastic fixation of a bone fracture,  depicts a cross-sectional view of an embodiment for elastic fixation of a bone fracture  with a bone plate  that may be attached to two bone segments . In this configuration, each bone segment  may be connected by one or more locking bone screws  to receiving holes  that may be connected with elastic elements  to bone plate . In embodiments, the screw heads  of bone screws  may be rigidly connected to receiving holes , for instance by matching thread features on screw heads  with those on the receiving holes . In embodiments, this locking mechanism between screw heads  and receiving holes  may enable bone plate  to remain elevated above bone surface , while providing elastic fixation between bone segments .","In order to illustrate a method for inducing principally parallel axial motion across a bone fracture,  depicts a cross-sectional view of an embodiment for elastic fixation of a bone fracture subjected to axial loading, as may be the case in patients that start weight bearing of a fractured extremity that has been stabilized with bone plate . In various embodiments, the load acting on bone segments  and onto locking screws  may induce elastic translation of receiving holes  relative to bone plate , which in turn may cause generally parallel motion between bone segments  at bone fracture . In this configuration, axial loading of bone segments  may cause elastic deformation of elastic beam elements , wherein slot segments  located at the aspect of receiving hole  facing fracture  become narrower, while slot segments  located at the receiving hole aspect facing away from fracture  become wider.","In various other embodiments,  illustrates a cross-sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic compression of a bone fracture, shown in functional association with non-locking bone screws for spanning a bone fracture in a cylindrical bone, wherein bone screws are inserted in an eccentric manner, and  illustrates a cross-sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic compression of a bone fracture, wherein tightening of eccentrically inserted bone screws induces elastic compression across a bone fracture by deformation of elastic beam elements that connect the plate holes to the plate member, both in accordance with various embodiments.","Thus, in order to illustrate a method for inducing elastic compression across a bone fracture,  depict cross-sectional views of an embodiment of a bone plate  applied to bridge and to elastically compress a fracture  in a substantially cylindrical bone.  depicts bone screws  being partially inserted through receiving holes  into bone segments . In various embodiments, screws  may be inserted eccentrically in receiving holes , at a small distance from the center-line  of receiving hole  in an opposite direction from fracture .  depicts the embodiment in a cross-sectional view after complete insertion of screws . Since screws  were inserted eccentrically relative to receiving hole , once screw heads  are contacting bone plate  during insertion, screws  may be forced to translate toward the center of receiving holes . This in turn causes bone segment  attached to screws  to translate relative to bone plate  toward fracture , thereby inducing compression across fracture . Once fracture  is fully compressed, any further translation may be accommodated by deformation of elastic beam elements  connecting receiving holes  to bone plate . In embodiments, this elastic deformation may induce additional compressive forces at fracture .","As illustrated in , the introduction of elastic elements in a bone plate as described elsewhere herein (referred to in  as an S-plate) may reduce axial stiffness of the plate as compared to a standard plate without the elastic elements. Notably, there is little to no impact on the bending stiffness of the plate due to the introduction of the elastic elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIGS. 21A-21C","FIG. 21A","FIG. 21B","FIG. 21A","FIG. 21C","FIG. 21A"],"b":["2101","2102","2103","2104","2105","2102","2103","2105","2105","2106","2102","2103","2106","2107","2105","2101","2108","2105","2101"]},"Elastomer lumen  provides several attributes to support elastic translation of receiving hole  relative to plate  in direction parallel to the upper surface  of plate . First, it prevents direct contact between adjacent surfaces of spiral slots  to eliminate wear. Second, it prevents excessive displacement of spiral beams , which could otherwise lead to excessive deformation and early fatigue of the spiral beams . Third, the elastomer lumen  supplements the elastic connection provided by elastic beams  between receiving hole  and bone plate  to achieve a desired suspension stiffness. Fourth, elastomer lumen  dampens the transfer of impact load from receiving hole  to plate .","This elastomer lumen  may supplement control of translation of receiving hole  relative to plate  in a direction perpendicular to the upper surface  of plate . When used for this purpose, elastomer lumen  may be configured to positively adhere to the surface of slots  to affect a desired elastic constraint of receiving hole  relative to bone plate .","An alternative embodiment of bone plate  according to the present invention is shown in , wherein the receiving hole is suspended in the plate by an elastomer lumen at least partially filling a slot surrounding the receiving hole.  illustrates a top view of a receiving hole  in association with bone plate ,  illustrates a bottom view of the device shown in ,  illustrates a transverse cross-sectional view of the device shown in , and  illustrates a longitudinal cross-sectional view of the device shown in , all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in various embodiments, slot  fully circumscribes receiving hole  and extends from upper surface  to the bone-contacting surface  of plate . In contrast to the embodiment shown in , there are no remaining flexible beams that connect hole  within plate . Instead, receiving hole  is suspended in the plate by means of an elastomer lumen , which may comprise a silicone lumen, filling slot . Slot  surrounding receiving hole  is wider in longitudinal plate direction  compared to the transverse direction  to accommodate preferential translation of receiving hole  in direction parallel to long axis  of the plate, while substantially limiting rotation and translation of the receiving hole in a plane that is perpendicular to plate longitudinal axis . The elastomer lumen  may be configured to positively adhere to at least a portion of the surface of slot  to affect a desired elastic constraint of receiving hole  relative to bone plate . As an alternative means to retain receiving hole  in plate , slot  surrounding receiving hole  may be introduced in an anti-parallel manner, whereby the two opposing sections  of slot  converge toward lower side  of plate , while two other opposing sections  diverge toward lower side  of plate . The anti-parallel slot  may enable receiving hole  to translate relative to plate  within the confines of the width of slot , or within the constraints provided by the elastomer lumen  in slot , but without being able to disassociate from plate . Based on the geometry of slot , receiving hole member  may be created from plate  by cutting said slot  in a manner to permanently retain receiving hole member  in plate . In an alternative embodiment, receiving hole member  may be manufactured as a separate component that is rotationally inserted into a corresponding slot  in plate , and is subsequently suspended in plate  by means of an injectable and curable elastomer lumen .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIGS. 23A-B","FIG. 23A","FIG. 23B"],"b":["2305","2303","2301","2310","2305","2313","2303","2301","2313","2305","2313","2310","2301","2326","2305","2313","2308","2305","2301","2313","2301","2313","2308","2310","2308","2305","2301","2301"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":["FIGS. 24A-B","FIG. 24B","FIG. 24A"],"b":["2405","2401","2404","2406","2401","2408","2405","2401","2408","2405","2401","2405","2404","2405","2403","2405","2401","2404","2405","2406","2404","2405","2401"]},"In some embodiments, the bone plate may have a through hole configured to receive a removable threaded rivet insert. The insert is temporarily confined within the hole by means of a snap mechanism. Insertion of a bone screw into the threaded rivet insert disables the snap mechanism to prevent disengagement of the rivet from the through hole in the bone plate. Elastic suspension of the threaded rivet insert within the bone plate hole may be achieved by applying an elastomer coating to at least a part of the plate hole surface, the periphery of the rivet, or both.","In some embodiments, having an opening with a major dimension in a transverse direction may effectively reduce the bending strength of bone plates, which may fail in bending. Thus in various embodiments, the flexible elements described herein may not have a major dimension extending in transverse direction. This orientation may cause the bone plate to retain a substantial amount of bending strength. As described elsewhere herein, it is desirable to maintain the bending strength of the construct while reducing the axial stiffness of plate, and additionally reducing stress at the screw hole(s) and in the construct as a whole. In various embodiments, stress at the screw hole(s) may cause undesirable or detrimental deformation of the hole(s).","In some embodiments, if the cantilever beam were located transversely \u2018in-line\u2019 with the screw hole, the transverse opening may extend over a substantial portion of the plate in order to derive flexibility, which in turn may reduce the bending strength of the plate. Thus, various embodiments disclosed herein employ a combination of two or more cantilever beams located above and below the screw hole (e.g., in the longitudinal plate direction), which may preserve bending strength of the plate.","In some embodiments described herein, one or more pairs of cantilever beams may be employed, wherein the beams of each cantilever pair are located on opposite sides of the screw hole in longitudinal direction, rather than one cantilever beam element that extends in a principally transverse direction to either one or both sides of the screw hole (lug), depending if the screw hole is located offset from or located on the longitudinal plate midline, respectively.","Some embodiments disclosed herein use pairs of slots that extend through the plate edge, rather than a slot that defines the transverse opening and that surrounds the beam and lug element, wherein the slot remains within the plate surface and does not extend through the plate edge.","Some embodiments include a set of slots per screw hole, wherein the set combines a central slot that partially surrounds the screw hole without extending through the plate edge with peripheral slots that penetrate through the longitudinal plate edge, rather than one continuous slot per screw hole, whereby the slot defines the transverse opening and surrounds the beam and lug element.","Various other embodiments disclosed herein employ a set of slots to foam a principally S-shaped spring element having an upper and a lower cantilever element that is diagonally connected by a central segment that contains the screw hole, rather than a generally I-shaped cantilever beam, for instance. Still other embodiments described herein employ cantilever elements of a width that is substantially smaller than the plate thickness, rather than a cantilever element of a width that is larger than the plate thickness. This may ensure a desired bending direction of the cantilever beam within the plane of the plate rather than out of the plane of the plate.","It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. Specifically, the disclosed invention may be practiced for fixation of a bone plate to one side of a fracture only, whereby the corresponding side of a fractured bone may be applied to the one plate by alternative means for flexible or rigid fixation. It is understood, therefore, that this disclosure is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed, but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.","Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and\/or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any combinations, adaptations, or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore, it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments will be readily understood by the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2E","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5D","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 8C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 10A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 10B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 10C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 10D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 10E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 10F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 11A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 11B","FIG. 11A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 11C","FIG. 11A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 13A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 13C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 14A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 15A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 15B","FIG. 15A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 15C","FIG. 15A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 15D","FIG. 15A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 16A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 16A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 16C","FIG. 16A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 16D","FIG. 16A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 17A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 17B","FIG. 17A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 17C","FIG. 17A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 18A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 18B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 19A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 19B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 21A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 21B","FIG. 21A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 21C","FIG. 21A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 22A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 22B","FIG. 22A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 22C","FIG. 22A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 22D","FIG. 22A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 23A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 23B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 24A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 24B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
